The water gurgled into his mouth. It ran down and up into his mouth and poured out again, tastelessly. denly, a sick burning in his chest. The sun faded to his eye, the sky became black. He stumbled about on the pavement, his mouth opening and closing. He tripped over the edge of the walk and fell to his knees on the dry ground. He crawled in on the dead grass and fell on his back, his stomach grinding, water running over his chin. He lay there with the sun shining on his face and he looked at it without blinking. Then he raised his hands and put them over his eyes. An ant crawled across his wrist. He looked at it stupidly. Then he put the ant between two fingers and squashed it to a pulp. He sat up. He couldn't stay where he was. Already they might be searching the park, their cold eyes scanning the hills, moving like a horrible tide through this last outpost where old people were allowed to think if they were able to. He got up and staggered around clumsily and started up the path, stiff-legged, looking for the lake. He turned a bend and walked in a weaving line. He heard whistles. He heard a distant shout. They were looking for him. Even here in the citizen's park where he thought he could escape. And find the lake in peace. He passed an old shut down merry-go-round. He saw the little wooden horses in gay poses, galloping high and motionless, caught fast in time. Green and orange with heavy tassels, all thick-covert with dust. He reached a sunken walk and started down it. There were gray stone walls on both sides. Sirens were all around in the air. They knew he was loose and they were coming to get him now. A man could not escape. It was not done. He shuffled across the road and moved up the path. Turning, he saw, far off, men running. Tltey wore black uniforms and they were waving at him. He hurried on, his feet thudding endlessly on the concrete walk. He ran off the path and up a hill and tumbled in the grass. He crawled into scarlet-leaved bushes and watched through waves of dizziness as the men of the Control Police dashed by. Then he got up and started off, limping, his eyes staring ahead. At last. The shifting, dull glitter of the lake. He hurried on now, stumbling and tripping. Only a little way. He lurched across a field. The air was thick with the smell of rotting grass. He crashed through the bushes and there were shouts and someone fired a gun. He looked back stiffly to see the men running after hhn. He plunged into the water, flopping on his chest with a great spl. He struggled forward, walking oh the bottom until the water had flooded over his chest, his shoulders, his head. Still walking while it washed into bis mouth and filled his throat and weighted his body, dragging him down. His eyes were wide and staring as he slid gently forward onto his face on the bottom. His fingers closed in the silt and he made no move. L ater, the Control Police dragged him out and threw him in the black truck and drove off. And, inside, the technician tore off the sheeting and shook his head at the sight of tangled coils and water-soaked machinery. "They go bad," he muttered as he probed with pliers and picks, "They crack up and think they are men and go wandering. Too bad they don't work as good as people."  'i A 'I . x.' rA ' The bombs fell down from a steel-blue sky. And the long, long night began Where hellhounds ran with eerie cries And the beastling -- chained -- was man. Running Hounds By John W. Jakes wine and set the mug down carefully on the scarred wooden table. The old woman hummed softly to herself as she stirred the great black kettle that boiled in the fireplace. Outside the window, Jordan could see night creeping down the orange sky. The hills were endless rolls of thatched shadow. In the courtyard, the dogs bayed and snuffled hungrily over the meat scraps he had bought for them. The other two travelers were watching him. They had been watching him since his arrival. One leaned back against the wall in a chair, idly strumming a guitar. Dirty hair matted his forehead. His chubby face was a mask of innocence. Jordan catalogued him, from his clothing, as a migratory worker. But if you judged by the pistols in his belt and the expression on his face, then the appraisal was disturbing. The second man was near fifty, tall and stooping. His suit was of black rough cloth. A wide black hat sat on his angular head, throwing shadow on his forehead and hooking nose -- his narrow lips and filthy chin stubble. Jordan decided it was time to move on. These two might be growing suspicious. There were many suspicious people in the world now and the only way to escape them was to keep running. And all because you were branded with a sign of hate. Jordan sighed and stared back into the wine cup. He was tired of running. But he prepared to rise, hitching up the belt about his waist, making certain his knife was secure. The tall stooped man chewed from a meat bone, wiped grease from his lips, and walked over to Jordan's table. "You a stranger in this territory?" "That's right -- I am." "Those your dogs out there -- they yours?" "Yes, they're mine." "What business you in?" The man's tone was persistent. Jordan breathed heavily. "I hunt," he replied, looking at the dusty spinning wheel in one comer, from the ceiling; at anything but the hunched man. "I hunt and sell the skins." The hunched man brushed back the edges of his coat. Two pistol butts thrust forward as he sat down. "And I suppose you travel," he said with feigned friendliness. "Risky, traveling. Never do it, if I can help it. Never can tell when somebody you meet might be a -- " He paused and tapped his fingers on the table. " I sorcerer." Joidan stiffened, then hoped the other hadn't noticed. Sorcerer. That meant scientist. His father had been a scientist, far back in a dim time when all he remembered were bright blue mornings and silver buildings in the sun. Then great blooming clouds, and noise, and no more buildings. He had never known his father. But the black question mark burned into the small of his back at the prison camp, years before, told him that someone had known his father was a scientist. "I hate sorcerers," the man against the wall said. "I hate 'em so much, I kill 'em. I like to kill 'em. I like to kill anybody, only nobody hates anybody but sorcerers, so I kill 'em." He tittered loudly, fingering the guitar. Jordan felt die anger rising in him, but he kept quiet. "I hate them, too," the man in black said, "because they killed my wife and my children. When the blowups came, somebody exploded the factory in our town. I was away when it happened, that's why I'm here. The whole world got blown up, I didn't mind that. But our town, and my folks -- " Jordan could see a different kind of madness in this stranger. Vengeful, misguided. He wondered how long he would have to sit and talk. "Now," said the tall man, "they call me Red Henry, the witch killer." One long knotty hand constricted. "An eye for an eye." T he instinct for safety was strong in Jordan, but this man stirred him deeply. "I think you're wrong. A lot of people are wrong. The science men aren't devils. They didn't cause the blowups. A few wanting power took the weapons the science men made. They caused the blowups." Red Henry was staring into space. He didn't seem to hear. "We'll get 'em," the man against the wall said. "We'll get 'em, wherever they are. Still lots of 'em running around, hidin' in thickets, crawlin' out at night, but we'll get 'em!" He giggled once more. "If you do," Jordan replied quickly, "you'll wipe out the only chance we have to survive. Those men made progress. When others -- bad men -- took the progress and used it for themselves, then came the darkness." "I don't like those words," Red Henry said, blinking. The other man was on his feet. In his hand was a pistol. He pointed it at Jordan. Lamplight winked off its barrel, and the old woman wasn't stirring her kettle any more. "I don't want any trouble, Lukey," she said. "My inn's got a reputation for no trouble." "He sounds like a sorcerer," Lukey replied, walking to the table. "He sure enough sounds like a sorcerer, and you know what we do with them." Tensing Jordan darted his eyes around the room. Night had closed in over the courtyard, and his dogs were silent. Lukey stopped in front of the table and drew his other gun. He thumbed back the hammers with little snicking sounds. The woman watched fearfully, knotting up her plaid apron. "Move out of the way, Henry," Lukey cackled. "I want to me this clean and nice." Red Henry waved a hand. "First we find out if he's one of them. Then we fix him. Only we do it my way. We don't make it nice and clean. We make it long. Stand up, stranger, and take off your shirt." Jordan pushed back the bench and got to his feet. Four blue gun snouts were aimed at him. "Drop the knife on the table," Red Henry ordered. Jordan pulled it from the sheath and let it fall. The black kettle hissed and ran over, but the woman paid no attention. "Hurry him up," Lukey laughed. "We ain't had a witch man for a long time." "We got plenty of time," Red Henry stated flatly. Jordan's belly felt cold. Mechanically, he slipped his hands under the edge of his tunic, pulling it upward and off his head. "Now," said Red Henry, "turn around." Jordan turned, and stopped breathing. The room was very quiet for a moment, and then Lukes giggle came bubbling up. "There it is, all right! Let me put a bullet there, Henry!" "The mark," came the other's sonorou.s voice. "The sign of those who sought the dark mysteries no man should know." Jordan heard a grunt, and a gun barrel raked along his back, leaving a stinging trail of pain. "A family," Red Henry said heavily. "A whole family killed, because of you and your kind. The whole world blown up in a devil's war. Well, this is one more we'll repay. You've got the sign that can't be taken off -- you're one of them." "Yes," Jordan said, "I am one of them. My father was a scientist, and I'm glad of that." "Fine," Red Henry muttered, "just fine... "Please," came the voice of the woman, "not in here, Henry. Take him outside. Don't do anything in here." Jordan stared at the rough plank wall. Red Henry said, "Turn around again." Red Henry kept watching him as he said to the woman, "You got a whip around here?" "In the shed." "Get it, Lukey." Reluctantly, Lukey put away his guns and vanished through a back room. He returned shortly with a long stretch of rawhide. Henry stuck one gun in his belt and hefted the whip. Ordering Lukey to take the lantern, he motioned Jordan to the front door. They stepped out into the courtyard. Jordan's dogs, three lean and dirty gray wolfhounds, jumped at his legs, pink tongues lapping his boots. "Down," Jordan ordered harshly, "down!" They slunk back, out of the circle of lantern light, and watched, tongues lolling, animal eyes alight. The evening wind ran over Jor(i.iii with cold hands, and the dark til I rustled softly. Beyond the hills, the sky was a pale bowl of small I #I vour hands in back of your #I il," K(I Henry said, going liuiii ol liim, guns trained on his stomach, joyously anticipating the spectacle. footsteps retreating. He heard the flat sliding of a whip laid out along the ground. He tensed, seeing his dogs crouching lean, deadly and wolf-like, near the wall. Now he would find out just how good they were. "An eye," breathed Red Henry somewhere, "for an eye..." Coils of fire lashed around Jordan's body. Simultaneously, he screamed orders to the dogs and grabbed the whip. He dived for the ground, pulling on the lash, and went tumbling over and over in the dirt. A gun exploded over his head and there was a groan. The dogs were on Lukey, biting and tearing at him. Fangs flashed and came away red and sticky. Lukey squalled. Jordan rolled over quickly. Red Henry was clutching his side. Lukey's shot -- missing Jordan -- had struck him. Jordan got to his feet, catching up the whip from where it had fallen from Henry's lax hands. He unwound it as he ran. Lukey clubbed feebly at the dogs. Jordan ran across the yard, scooping up a pistol from the dust. There was another explosion, whirling him around. His arm throbbed abruptly and became wet. Blue smoke curled from Red Henry's gun. Jordan struck the gun away. Henry glared, holding his side -- panting. "Kill me, devil," he whispered. "Add another link to the chains tying you up in hell." Jordan's finger tightened on the trigger. Sweat and blood ran down his other arm. He felt the muscles tightening and tightening -- Doubt welled up. Abruptly, he turned away, calling off the dogs. Lukey was a sodden mass in the dirt. Jordan touched him with his boot. There was a faint moan from the ragged throat. The dogs snuflfled, rubbing against Jordan's legs. He patted them, even as he began running toward the dark hills. His arm burned hanging loose beside him. He raced up the hill, the dogs running near him. At the crest of the slope, he turned and glanced down at the inn yard. The woman was in the doorway, shaking a charm bag to ward off demons. Red Henry stood near Lukey's corpse, eyes searching the night. One arm was clutched to his body, and was black with blood. The other held the lantern high. He was like some stooped malignant god. His mouth moved, and the words were carried to Jordan by the wind. "... ni find you... you can't run far... I'll find you... witch hunt... A prophet, thought Jordan, standing on the hill with the wind rushing by. A prophet of ignorance, turning the world into a black land of superstition and fear, and vengeance. But we can rebuild -- we must rebuild! We won't be outcasts forever! But now, there was the necessity of escape. The country was unfamiliar, as was all the country he had traveled through. It was hostile, and every person and every building might be deadly. Henry and Lukey and the inn had been deadly. Jordan's arm hurt. "Run," he whispered to the dogs. They ran across the open country. The dogs whined. He stumbled up one dark hill, down, and up another. A thousand hills -- unfriendly -- each one higher and steeper than the last. The stars peered down. The wind was hot. He ran in a churning sea of liquid. He staggered to the top of another hill and paused. He called the dogs to a stop. He tried to move forward again and stumbled. His knees fell away under him and he rolled down the hill, bumping his arm and feeling fresh pieces of fire in him. At last, he came to a stop in the grass at the hill bottom. The dogs lapped his face with their warm tongues. The winds whispered telling him that far back in the night a great devil hunt was beginning. The dogs whimpered but he did not hear... T he first sensation was one of heat. His back was covered with warmth. Next, he became aware of the grass imder his stomach. It was scratching his skin. He opened one eye, then the other. He waited for feeling to take hold thoroughly. It moved quickly ders, his legs, his arms. The pain from the wound had been reduced to a steady ache. He turned over and lay on his back, gathering strength. The morning sky overhead was a sheet of polished blue. He saw trees on a hilltop, lacy and nodding. Wild birds called shrilly. The morning world was a warm and friendly place. Bui not for him... Memory of the preceding night returned. Hastily, he stumbled to his feet. He had to go on. He had to keep running... The dogs opened their eyes with faint hungry growls. His own stomach rattled in emptiness, but there was no food. "Come on," he said, weakly, "we've got to move." They rose and trotted along beside him as he lurched up the next hill. He pulled back his sleeve as he walked, examining the wound. He felt suddenly sick. Stiunbling over the brow of a hill, he halted, knowing his wound would require attention before very long, if he was to escape infection. The hills ran on endlessly, vanishing in a hazy blue-green line far in the distance. There were no towns -- no buildings. Only a road about half a mile away, winding like a dirty snake through the woodlands. He had started on down the hill when his eyes caught a line of dust rising from where the road dipped. The dogs growled their hunger. Jordan pulled the pistol from his belt and loped down the hill. Dust meant someone on the road, perhaps someone on a horse. The dogs ran low over the ground beside him, quiet now. His arm began to beat with a throbbing rhythm that corresponded to his pounding heart. The breath tore in and out of his chest, but he kept up the pace, making himself run -- run -- The last hill was ahead. It seemed to tower like a mountain into the blue infinity of the sky. Hq choked weakly and struggled for the top. The world, grown hazy black, swam into focus again. He seized a root and pulled himself upward. The moving line of dust floated over the hilltop. His margin would be narrow. The dogs were already near the summit. Letting out a tom gust of air, he stumbled. Even with the rest he had gotten, his legs were weak -- drained of strength by the damaged arm. He retched and crawled to the crest of the hill on his knees. Without looking down at the road, he thrust the gun out and croaked "Stop!" He could do nothing more than hold the gun and wait while the sound of his voice floated away on the wind. The bright sky was motionless, the clouds gone. The dogs stood alertly beside him, ears erect, tongues hanging over white teeth. A gypsy wagon, pulled by two horses with sore-ridden hides, stood in the center of the road. Faint trails of dust still drifted from the big rear wheels. The side was painted with red and gold letters that said, Spanio The Clown  Company. A man and a girl watched him from the wagon seat. The man was stout, yet hungry looking. His green and yellow harlequin's suit was baggy, frayed and ill-fitting. A worn peaked cap with little bells was on his head. The girl was yellow-haired and skinny. Her mouth was daubed with too much red lip paint. The split flaring skirt displayed legs that needed flesh, and the white blouse revealed the tops of breasts that might once have been attractive. She was much younger than the man, but their faces both bore suffering and starvation and loneliness like livid brands. Jordan felt a quick, unexplainable kinship. He stood up and walked unsteadily down the hill, the dogs at his heel. "What do you want with us?" the man asked. "We have no money." "I don't want that," Jordan replied. "I want you to let me ride with you. My arm is hurt. I can't walk and I've got to -- " He almost said get away, but checked himself. They might be tech-haters. The girl glared at him, as if she were used to arguing and fighting. "Why should we help you?" "My gun," he muttered. She made a disgusted noise and reached for the reins, but the man pushed her aside. "He is hurt, Jenny. We should help him." "But he might be pretending," she whispered intently. "We must reach Mount Gabriel, father..." "Stop talking," Jordan ordered. "I'm going to climb inside the wagon." He held his teeth together against the pain and took a step. Again his legs dissolved beneath him. He pawed the air with his good hand. The gun fell into the dust and he clutched at the wheel, leaning his head against the wood, trying to fight back the closing dark. Dimly, he heard someone jump from the seat. A hand pulled at his shoulder. New agony burned through him. "Let loose of the wheel," the girl was saying fiercely, "let loose -- " He felt Itis tunic rip. His cheek was pressed against the rough wood of a wheel spoke. The girl's voice was a whisper. "Father... he's got the black mark on his back!" "Are you sure?" Bells jingled and the shirt was lifted away. "Quickly," came the man's voice. "Put him in the wagon. I'll drive. You attend to the wound. Make him comfortable." Jordan felt hands lifting him, up and up and up... H e lay on a pile of skins inside the wagon. They were stopped in a roadside glade. The girl gave him a wine jar and he took a long drink, feeling comfort in his stomach. He began to gnaw on a slice of rye bread the girl offered. Then she leaned back on thin haunches and watched him. The man in the harlequin costume sat on the tailgate, holding the cap in his hand and idly jingling the bells. "You're a scientist," he said. Jordan stiffened. The girl laughed shortly and pulled down one side of her blouse. A black question mark was branded into the skin, just behind the armpit. "Don't be afraid. We've both got them." "My name is Spain," the man said. "I trust you because no one who was in his right mind would purposely have that brand on him. I was -- a chemist, once." His eyes brimmed with remembrance. "You travel disguised as a clown?" Jordan asked curiously. long time, hiding in a cave near the university they burned after the blowup. But word came from Mount Gabriel, and friends got us these clothes and this wagon. My daughter and I started out." He brushed a hand across his face. "I went to college, once. And I used to sing and dance quite a bit. Social entertainer." The girl studied Jordan with deep pity as her father continued, "We're going to Mount Gabriel, because in that town, scientists are gathering!" Jordan sat up, alert in spite of the wounded arm. "Word came secretly," Spain related. "All the scientists of this country are gathering there, to wait for the time when people won't be afraid of us. That time will come -- certainly. It's a deserted town, no one goes there any more. But we'll wait and our time will come -- "I've hoped that there might be such a place," Jordan said. "I would like to go with you." "Not before we stop in the next town and attend to your wound," Jenny said. "It'd be dangerous to leave it alone, and we don't have any medical supplies with us." "You don't understand. Someone will be hunting me. The towns will be dangerous." "Someone is hunting all of us," the girl said. Jordan shook his head stubbornly. "One man is hunting me." He told them about Red Henry, and the fight at the inn. "He waits for an opportunity to kill, anyone with a black question mark on them. He blames all scientists for what happened to his family. He knows I'm wounded, and he'll direct all his energy to finding me. Towns -- " Spain waved him silent. "That chance we'll have to take." He dropped off the tailgate, replaced his cap and looked at the sky. The wagon began to roll. The rocking motion soothed him, made him tired. He lay back on the skins and watched the wooden ceiling. Jenny sat beside him. "I wish you'd go past the town," he said half-heartedly. "I'll be all right." She didn't answer. He felt warm fingers touch his skin. "Rest now." Her voice had lost some of its harsh stridency. "Rest and get back your strength." The warm fingers stayed on his skin, clinging there, as if they had found something in a lonely world. The wagon rocked on, and the ceiling grew darker as the sun fell in the west. Mount Gabriel. The name echoed in his thoughts. Red Henry was searching for him, but somewhere ahead in the vast wild lands of witchcraft and fear, there was sanctuary. Only a few more desperate miles -- rest -- let the strength seep back into tsvisted empty muscles -- rest -- He heard the dogs barking playfully as they followed along behind. Then even that became distant... N ight had come when they reached a town. Jordan was perched on the wagon seat between Jenny and her father. He felt rested and fairly strong. The horses shambled wearily down a tree-covered lane. Jordan saw a sign hanging blasted and askew in the starlight. Galena Junction, Pop. #, A Fine Town For Work And Play. The letters were faded and streaked with rain water. Jordan laughed silently. The streets were dusty, quiet. Houses showed lines of lamplight behind shutters, but no face looked out inquisitively as the horses moved with a soft, rhythmic plopping. "We'll tie the wagon up ahead," Spain announced, "and act like we're staying for the night." He indicated the town square. Glass faces of shops stared vacantly. Bricks were scarred with soot. The courthouse lawn was overgrown with weeds, and a stack or iron cannonballs decorated one comer. Lanterns hung on posts aU about the square, casting tall shadows on the emptiness. The wagon pulled into the square and Spain drew it to a stop near the shattered courthouse steps. "We've got to be out of here by dawn," he said. "It isn't safe to be in a town at all, much less in the daylight." "Then let's move on right now," Jordan insisted. Spain shook his head stubbornly. "That wound needs attention. We'll -- " He sat up straight, eyes darting to the vacant street on his left. "Quiet!" Four men in work clothes and wide hats were coming around the courthouse and toward the wagon. Shotguns protruded from the crooks of their elbows. Jenny whispered to Jordan, "Dad will talk to them." The four men walked up to the wagon, shotguns glinting. "Make some light, pilgrims," one of them said. Jenny fished out a match, stmck it, and put it to the lantern hanging from the lip of the wagon roof. Gold light spilled over the knot of shadow that was the men. Their faces were bearded and thin and suspicious. The leader had spots of food on his shirt front and black sweat rings under his arms. He examined the sign on the side of the wagon and asked, "What's your business in Galena Junction, pilgrims?" "We're entertainers," Spain said with mock joviality. "We have a little show, my friend. We've been on the road all day, and we decided to stop in this peaceful little town and present our show tomorrow morning." He added fawningly, "If that's all right with you." The man grunted meaninglessly. One of the others lit a cigar and exhaled puffs of blue smoke that whirled upward in the night air. His eyes crawled over Jenny. He grinned and switched his gaze to Jordan. He frowned. "All of you in the show?" he asked. Jordan reached behind the seat, hiding his movement with his body. His fingers closed about the butt of a pistol. He listened for the dogs, heard them sniffling somewhere at the side af the wagon. He stared back at the four men. "Of course we're all in the show," Spain boomed. The echoes bounced off the buildings. "Spanio and Company, that's what the sign says." The leader said, "That's what it says all right. Keep your wagon here till morning. Come on, boys." They walked back the way they had come. Just as they were about to round the comer of the courthouse, the one with the cigar glanced back to where the three sat in the lantern glow. Jordan held himself steady, not lowering his eyes as he wanted to, but keeping them fixed on the horses. After a minute, Jenny sighed and said, "They're gone." Jordan glanced quickly to the street. It was empty. Blue wisps of smoke floated under one of the lamp posts. He examined his arm. A soggy red stain had come through onto the shirt. "He saw I was wounded," Jordan said abruptly. "One of them was looking at my arm. I didn't know it had soaked through." "And we still don't know where the doctor lives," Spain added. "That means hunting for him. It may be dangerous, with them patrolling like that. Jenny, drive around to the other side of the courthouse." He pointed off to the right with one hand, extinguishing the lantern with the other. "When we come to that patch of shadow, Jordan and I will get off. You stay here, climb into the back and keep quiet. If they come back, maybe they'll think we're sleeping." She started to protest, but Spain silenced her with a hand to his lips. He gave her the reins. Reluctantly, she pulled them to the right, and the wagon began to move. As they swung around the corner of the square, Spain motioned and jumped quickly from the seat. Jordan followed, landing with a thud that jarred pain along his arm. They ran through the murky blackness and flattened themselves against a shop front, watching. Jenny drove to the appointed position, dropped the reins and vanished from the seat. The dogs settled down behind the wheels. "All right," Spain whispered. "Let's move." They slipped into an alley and ran down to the next street. There were houses here, but no lights. Jordan took one side, Spain the other. They examined each gate, peering in the starlight for a sign indicating a doctor. "Nothing," Jordan called softly as he reached the end of the block. Spain motioned to a cross street and they began their search once more. Somewhere in this dark maze of streets there had to be a doctor. A thin sliver of moon crept over the housetops. Trees on the lawns sighed comfortingly, and Jordan felt again the stinging loneliness that belonged to him and his kind. The houses were dark, but secure, even with their superstitions. A gain the street produced nothing. They turned one more corner. Half way down the block, Jordan saw a black square hung from a gatepost. He strained to make out the lettering. M. Rayburn, Medicines. Two words had been added -- painted on in a hasty scrawl. After the blowup, Jordan thought bitterly. The sign now read Medicines and Spells. He motioned to Spain. The older man moved across the street, crouching low, holding the bells on his cap to keep them from jingling. Jordan pushed the gate open. Boards groaned and creaked as they moved up the walk and onto the frame porch. No light showed within. Spain fumbled for the bell, breathing heavily. "I've got my gun ready," Jordan said. Spain beat upon the door. They waited tensely, listening. No sound came to their ears except the wind in the dark trees. Spain knocked a second time. A spot of light shimmered beyond the cut-glass doorpane. It enlarged slowly, accompanied by footsteps. A shadow fell on the glass from inside. It held a lamp high and reached out and opened the door. A wizened old man in a night shirt looked out at them apprehensively. "What do you want?" "My friend has a wounded arm," Spain told him. "I want you to fe it." "Go away," the old man mumbled, trying to close the door. "Go away and leave me alone." Jordan lifted his gun and pointed it at the old man's head. Rheumy eyes widened in fright. "Stand back," Spain said. "We're coming in." The old man shufBed backwards, the fear of the unknown -- bom when the bombs fell -- welling up in him. Jordan and Spain walked into the hall. "Put out your light," Jordan said. The old man turned down the lamp as Spain closed the front door. "Now lead us to your office," Jordan ordered. They walked through a musky parlor smelling of lavender, and the man called Rayburn, pushed back another door, turning up his lamp. He stood shuffling his veined hands nervously, ludicrous in the baggy night shirt. "Terrible," he kept mumbling. "Terrible to open at night. Night is the time when they wk -- " "Keep quiet," Spain said. They surveyed the room. All the standard medical equipment was present. There was a desk and a reclining table and a case containing instruments that glittered with a white silver sheen behind glass doors. The room smelled of cool antiseptic. But there were other objects. A wooden vampire stake hung on one wall. A witch-cross twined with wolfbane hung on anodier. Charm bags littered the desk, and a porcelain slab showed an uncompleted mess of clay, hair and fingernail parings. A bare human skull gaped in crazy mirth from atop the instrument case. "Who are you?" Rayburn asked querulously. "What are you running from? Or are you -- sorcerers?" Jordan felt the same anger rise that had come with the words of Red Henry back at the inn. He shifted the gun to his weak hand and pulled up his tunic as he turned around. His mouth twisted. "Take a look -- doctor." Rayburn choked in a highpitched voice and cowered back. "Devils! Black spawn of hell!" The sagging flesh on his jowls quivered. "Spawn of hell or not," Spain replied, "you're going to take that bullet out of his arm." "I won't! I won't help your kind!" "Would you like me to put a curse on you?" Jordan asked with sudden insight. His voice carried malicious overtones, partly jest, partly sick irony. "Would you like your bones to dissolve and your flesh to drop off in rotten pieces? I can do that, doctor, because I'm one of them!" Rayburn put his face in his hands and sobbed softly. Then he looked up, trembling. "Take off your shirt." Jordan handed the gun to Spain. He pulled his tunic off his good arm, then over his head, and finally removed it from the wounded arm. Sitting on the long table, he watched Rayburn gathering the j.TTs of antiseptic and the instruments from the case where the skull grinned. I Ir shambled over to Jordan and il.iubod at the wound with some liquid from a black bottle. Jordan v i iidered if it was alcohol. It didn't I me lie was puzzled. I'hrn Rayburn got a gourd rattle li.M ii.ied siiK'crity, he began to shake it back and forth before the wound. "What are you doing?" Spain asked sharply. "Proceeding by ritual," Rayburn whined. "I must do it this way." Jordan saw that the liquid had made his woimd flesh-colored. He picked up the bottle. "What is this?" "Devil cleanser," the man quaked. Jordan corked the bottle and handed it to Spain. "Devil cleanser. Flesh colored paint. Use it for clown makeup." Spain dropped the bottle in one voluminous pocket of his harlequin suit. 'Torget ritual," Jordan said. "Just get the bullet out of there." "Please," Rayburn protested. "I don't want to die burning -- " "Remember what I can do." Rayburn remembered. He removed the lamp chimney and passed several knives through the flame. "No time to purify the instruments," he muttered. He picked up one of the scalpels after cleaning off the wound. The blade sparkled like a small star in the lamplight. Rayburn bent down, blade poised over the wound. Jordan saw sweat running down his neck, dampening his night shirt. "Be careful," Jordan said. "Very careful." he knew he could not expect anesthetics. There were none. Rayburn began to cut at the wound. Jordan's fingers were scarlet where they clutched the table. The knife dug. The color of the fingers changed from scarlet to livid white... Rayburn breathed with noisy gasps. He wiped away the blood with a rag and kept cutting. T he piece of lead clanked into the enameled tray. Rayburn sewed up the wound, bandaged it with clean cloth, and began picking up the bloody rags from the floor. "We'd better hurry," Spain advised. "It isn't safe to leave Jenny with the wagon for too long. How do you feel?" "Better," Jordan replied honestly, in spite of the pain. He bowed mockingly to Rayburn. "Thank you... doctor." The old man looked at him, swallowing hard. A question framed itself suddenly within his eyes. "Wait a moment. If you are -- one of them -- you should have been able to remove the wound yourself. I didn't think of that." Resentment for the mental suffering he had endured sprang to light on his face. "How powerful are you?" he whispered. "I'm a human being like yourself. The only difference is, I refuse to believe in lies." "Come on, Jordan," Spain said nervously. "Don't waste time -- " "But you wear the black question mark," Rayburn whispered. Dazed, not knowing whether to believe in Jordan as a demon or not, the old man stumbled forward, thrusting a scalpel ahead of him. "I'll see how strong you are -- " His eyes were open wide. Spain called a sharp warning. Rayburn swung the knife at Jordan, who fended with his good arm and pushed the old man backwards. The doctor .stumbled, arms flung out. He clutched at the desk. His fingers caught the lamp and pulled it over. The flames crept out like red tongues, licking over the bloody rags scattered on the floor. Jordan and Spain turned for the door as the flames began to dance over the wooden planking. They rushed through the house and out into the street. Doors were open now. Other men and women in night dress were watching in panic as yellow fire lit up the inside of the doctor's house like a magic lantern. "We must move fast," Spain said, as they ran toward the square. "The fire will bring many people -- " Hands clutched at them. Angry voices asked where they were going; who, what, why. Jordan pushed them away roughly and ran on. They dodged through back alleys and yards as a red smear stained the sky. Down one last alley, and they were running across the square. The wagon remained in its original position. Dim outlines showed where the dogs lay under the wheels. The horses were skittering nervously, as if recently disturbed. The two men reached the wagon. The dogs did not get up. Jordan knelt down in the darkness, reaching out with fearful hands. He touched the soft warm fur of one dog. He felt something else. Sickened, he examined the others. All three of the dogs had bullet holes in their heads. "Spain," he said urgently, but the older man was searching the interior of the wagon. "She's gone, Jordan," he whispered. "The dogs," Jordan, murmured, confused. "Jordan, Jenny's gone!" "That's right, pilgrims," said a voice from the shadows of the courthouse. "Lay down the pistol." Spain yanked back the gun hammer, but Jordan grabbed his wrist. "No! We've got to find out what happened." Weakly, Spain dropped the gun into the dirt. The men moved out from the shadows. "Where is she?" Spain said brokenly. "Locked up in a house," replied the leader, "until dawn." "How did you find out about me?" Jordan asked. Hope seemed a lost and lonely thing. The leader said, "We seen your arm, so I went and talked with somebody who came into town earlier hunting a feller with a bloody arm." Jordan realized that there were five men, instead of four. Even as he thought, the fifth stepped out to where the lamplight fell on the lower half of his body. One blackcoated arm hung loosely, pressing a wounded side. The other hand carried a pistol. Suddenly, he was on Jordan, clubbing at his head. Shotgun barrels lifted, silver-blue bars flashing in the night. Jordan fought back, but weakly -- There was dirt under him. Spain was struggling. The stars were tinted with a scarlet haze, and voices lifted in the distance. His hand flopped against furry hide that was growing cold. He saw one of Red Henry's boots coming for his face. He jerked his head aside, but not in time. Complete darkness smashed down on him and covered him over. into the air and caught it absently. He was standing at the window of the parlor. Out on the lawn, men were gathered, talking quietly, scratching their beards. Black soot and sparks still drifted in clouds across the rooftops from the wreckage of Rayburn's house. Jenny sat on the embroidered settee, watching Jordan who rested loosely in a large brown rocker that creaked ever so little as it swayed. Jordan's mind worked endlessly, thinking of Mount Gabriel where the other scientists would be gathering. Abruptly, Jenny got up. "I wish they'd tell us what they're going to do." Spain tossed the black bottle. "Red Henry told me. They're waiting for dawn. Then they're going to take us outside of town and kill usl It sounds a bit ridiculous, doesn't it?" His smile was artificial. He tossed the bottle once more and it fell back into his hand with a faint plop. "Why all of us?" Jordan massaged his arm, trying to rub away the pain. "I don't understand," Jenny said. "I do," Spain replied. "He means that he's the only one Red Henry really wants." "And he doesn't know you two have the black question mark, does he?" Jordan asked. "Don't," Jenny pleaded. "Please don't talk like that." "He didn't look for a mark on me," Spain continued, watching the brightening pearl sky. "You, Jenny?"  "No," she said angrily. "Please -- " "Well," he sighed, "it's almost dawn. The men are begining to move out there." They were hefting their guns restlessly, eyes on the house, awed, and eager to be finished with their job. "Be practical," Jordan went on, even though a great sickness fought and writhed inside his stomach. "I'm no scientist. I only carry the black mark. You're a chemist. You would be useful at Mount Gabriel, but I -- " He gestured simply with uplifted palms. "Stop it," Jenny cried, turning her back on both of them. "Stop it! We're together -- " "He's right, you know," Spain said softly. "In one way," Jenny said. Her voice was harsh. "Of course he's right in one way, but not -- " She stopped. "But how could we do it?" Spain asked, approaching Jordan. "I'm fool enough to want to live when someone offers me a chance." Jordan pointed at the black bottle. "That might blot out the question marks." Spain's eyes grew large and excited. He rubbed sweaty hands on his harlequin suit. "Let's try," he said eagerly. It was a childish giggle. Jordan nodded assent. Spain slipped the suit down oflf his aging shoulders. Behind one jutting shoulderblade was the mark. Jordan opened the bottle with trembling hands and slopped a little of the paint over the symbol. "Walk to the window and pull back the curtains," he ordered. Spain hurried to comply. The shimmering light of new dawn dripped over him. "It doesn't show," Jordan told him, almost with regret. Spain struggled to get back into his suit. "Jenny," he said anxiously. "Put some on her." Jordan moved closer, seeing the way her head shook, seeing her skinny body that might once have been womanly, and might be womanly again. He put a hand onher shoulder. "Jenny -- " "Don't touch me." He pressed her shoulder and felt the skin faintly warm. "It's the right thing." She pulled the blouse away and he daubed on the paint. Then she turned and looked at him, all of the hunger and longing and fear of the dark years reaching out to hold him for a moment. "Mount Gabriel will be lonely," she said, and walked to the window. Hastily, Jordan gave Spain the bottle of paint, and the older man deposited it again in his pocket. Jordan started to speak when boots sounded outside the door. They waited silently and the door opened slowly. Red Henry, great blue pistol in one hand, gazed at Jordan, seeing the finish of his mad hunt. The other two he dismissed with cursory glances. And Jordan knew they had a chance. "You wjint me to die, don't you?" he asked. Red Henry's mouth twitched. "Yes, I want you to die, although I can't do it slowly this time, with all the townsmen watching." "But did you know there's a price? There's a price for everything in the world, even for sorcerers." His long jaw raised quizzically, just a bit shaken. "What is the price?" "The lives of these two people." He balanced himself lightly on his feet, exactly as his approach had to be balanced. Henry laughed suddenly. "Why should I spare them, sorcerer? They took you in. They helped you." "Because you hate only sorcerers. The sorcerers caused the death of your family." He moved quickly to the window, caught a fistful of cloth and ripped the clown suit. He tore Jenny's blouse in the same fashion. "These people aren't sorcerers," he said quickly, not daring to look at their backs. and her father turned around so that their backs were no longer exposed. "They have no mark on them," Red Henry admitted, "but they helped you." "Either you let them go," Jordan said, readying his final desperate stroke, "or you don't get me. And above all, you want to see me die... by your hand." The black coated man peered at Jordan for weapons. He saw none. "I have a way to die by my own hand." Jordan jerked the doctor's bandages away and dug his fingers into the sewn edges of the wound, fighting the pain. "I can pull this open and bleed, but I know you want the death your way. Let them go, and I do nothing." The other man's fingers were stroking the gun butt nervously. "All right," he breathed. "I want you. They can go free." Jordan let out a long breath and relaxed, wishing he had some god to which he could offer thanks. "Outside," Red Henry ordered. "It's dawn." No one spoke as they walked out of the old house. The wagon was brought around. Red Henry, Jordan and the rest of the men mounted horses. The little cavalcade rode toward the east as the sky began to turn white as a shroud. The buildings dropped behind, one by one, and the hills began. They stopped at a large tree near the road. Jordan's arm was almost empty of aching. Red Henry and the other men dismounted. They came toward Jordan where he sat his horse. Henry reached into his saddlebag and brought out a long wooden stake, sharply pointed. He walked to the small circle of men around Jordan. He smiled. "Now, witch-man -- " The sun began to glint yellow over the hills. Jenny and her father watched from the wagon, their faces streaked and dirty. "I'm going to drive this right through your heart," Red Henry said softly. A morning wind made soft noises in the trees. Jenny screamed. Red Henry turned, angered. He peered at her for a moment, then dragged one of his pistols free and pointed it at her. Through the faint mist of pain still on him, Jordan saw her face, inscribed like a fiery image in his mind. He saw the gun. Savagely he kicked the horse, dragging its head back and up, tearing at the reins. The horse lifted its feet high in the air, making shrill noises of fear. The men cursed. Red Henry whirled, mouth open, swinging the gun at the head of the horse and at the sharp hooves that came down and smashed his skull. Red Henry's gun exploded in the out of his mouth. He jerked once or twice on the ground. Jordan hung onto the reins as the horse reared again, striking at the men. They scattered toward the trees, hunting their guns. The world began to darken around Jordan. He felt, somehow, from the warm flow on his body, that his wound had broken. And the guns were lifting, from the trees. Lifting at him. He kicked the horse again as it clattered past the wagon away from the grove. For seemingly endless hours he rode that way, lost in a half-world of grim fevered trees and dark sunlight. The horse swayed and bucked under him. He was losing his hold... And at last he let his arms relax completely. He was lifted upward for a moment, and then there was nothing under him, and then very suddenly, a hard something that was the earth. Hoofs rattled away into the distance. He lay in the middle of the road, in the sun, watching with strange curiosity the way the red blood from his wound mixed with the grainy brown dirt of the road. And then the sun, a dying candle in the sky, went out. The darkness that came after was only a partial dark and there was a face; Jenny bending over him, and the rocking, as if he were in a coffin that floated on a dark sea. His arm did not hurt so much. He was tired. Jenny kept saying words... Red Henry killed... they were disorganized... we followed you... found you in the road... Mount Gabriel... you..." The thoughts made sense now. Through the dark and the hurt, they made a pattern. Mount Gabriel. Mount Gabriel, to be built tall and strong above the fear and the hatred, for the morning that would inevitably come. And he would be there, with her. The rocking carried him on into the healing darkness from which he knew he would soon return. Money was worthless, yet no man dared go broke. It was all pretty confusing to Mark until "Point-Plus-Pearlie told him -- By Noel Loomis iously backward as he ran up the street to the place where the faded gold lettering on one window said "Jewelry." That would be a good place to hide, he thought. Most of the plate-glass windows and doors along the street were broken out as in fact they were everywhere, and had been for twenty years -- but one of the jewelry windows and the door, protected by iron grating, were still whole and would help to conceal him. With one final glance back at the comer, he climbed the grating, scuttled across it, and dropped down. Then, keeping low, he ducked in among the dusty old counters and stopped abruptly, listening. He heard Conley's slow, slapping footsteps as the tall man rounded the comer and came up the street. He forced himself to breathe softly in spite of the pounding of his heart. The dust rose a little around him and got in his nostrils and he wanted to sneeze, but by sheer willpower he choked it down. Conley was from the Machine -- # : Central Audit Bureau -- and the Machine knew by now that Mark was three thousand points in the red. Three thousand points -- when you were supposed to be always within one day's point of a balance. You were allowed twelve hundred points a day, so Mark was now two and a half days in debit. He'd been walking the streets in a sort of daze, signing slips right and left while his own pad of shps stayed in his pocket. He hadn't cared, either, until now, because in this brave new world of the one freedom -- freedom from work -- he was abominably unhappy. Everybody struggled all day to get enough points to stay even with Central, and what good did It do them? You got even one day, but the next day you had to start all over. There wasn't any point to it. So he'd said to hell with it, and for five days now he'd ignored the Machine entirely except to line up automatically once a day at the concourse to have his card audited. And for five straight days the balance had been in red. Then, today, he had seen Conley on the street, coming toward him. All of a sudden Mark had been scared. He didn't know what Central would do to him -- nobody knew -- but he didn't want to find out, either. He ran from Conley. Now he crouched in the dust behind an empty counter while Conley's footsteps approached. He held hb breath when they got close, and when they passed the broken window he was very thankful. It was late afternoon and he thought Conley would go back to Central. Nobody knew much about Conley except that he represented the Machine and that he seemed to disappear within it every afternoon. So, presently, Mark crawled out of the broken window and walked down to Main Street. He looked carefully right and left and then, not seeing Conley's tall form above the traffic, he wandered slowly down the street, trying to figure things out. Why wasn't there anything worth while to do? What was the reason for all the broken windows and empty stores? Had there once been places where people could buy things like food and clothes? Maybe -- before Central Audit Bureau had come into existence. Or had Central always been there? Mark saw the old lady sitting in the wheel-chair. He turned out absently to walk by her. He saw her put her foot in his way but his brain wasn't working. He stumbled over her foot. Instantly the old lady half arose from her chair as if in pain, shrieking and brandishing her cane, the leg held stiffiy out in front of her. "You've injured me," she shrieked in a raucous voice. "You've hurt my lame foot!" Mark stood there dumbly. He was a young man and so he didn't at once foresee what was about to happen. A crowd gathered in no time. The old lady was putting on a show. Mark didn't get it. He would have allowed her a thousand points -- even fifteen hundred -- without argument. But he got the shock of his young life. "Thirty thousand points!" she screamed at him, and thrust a pad of slips at him. "Sign my slip, please." M ark took the pad automatically. He took the pencil she held out. He started to sign. He'd never get a credit balance at the Central Bureau now, but he didn't care. Maybe he'd get in so deep they'd give him some work. The old lady's voice rose unexpectedly. "My feelings are hurt, too. He did it deliberately. Five thousand points for my injured feelings." Dazedly Mark wrote down "Thirty-five thousand and no more," and signed his name. He handed the pad back to her and started on. The crowd was leaving. But a voice stopped him. A soft voice. "Wait, son." He looked back. He started to go on, then he saw the old lady's eyes on his. "Stick around," she said. There wasn't any raucousness in her voice now. "Wait till the crowd goes. I want to talk to you." Presently he was walking beside her while she laboriously operated the two big hand-wheels that propelled the chair. Two blocks away she turned into an empty building marked "Groceries." Mark helped her cross the threshold. Inside, she amazed him by springing out of the chair and standing quite steadily. She was small and she wasn't as old and wrinkled as he had thought. "You get in the chair," she said. "I'll push you. I need the exercise." A minute later she was pushing him briskly along the street while Mark sat, still half dazed, in the wicker chair, her old red shawl was across his lap. "Get cramps in my legs, to say nothing of my bottom," she observed, "sitting there all day." She saw him stiffen. "Oh, you needn't be shocked. After all. I'm old enough to be your grandmother. I was bom in #, you know." "Nineteen-forty," Mark repeated, wonderingly. "Gee, that was baOk in the days when everybody worked. I wish I could work." "Well, it's a changed world," she observed. "In those days, you had to work." At that instant Mark heard the ominous slapping footsteps. He looked ahead, and there was Conley, easily noticeable because of the type N hat a head above everybody else, coming toward them. Mark snatched up the red shawl and wrapped it around his face to the nose and pulled his hat low over his eyes. He watched from under the type L brim while Conley approached. He held his breath while Conley fixed his deep eyes on him for a moment, but Conley went by, and once more he was safe. The old lady trotted briskly along. They passed a few people who stared at them, but Mark was thinking. "This is #," he observed. "You're eighty-one years old. You must know all about things." "I'm quite spry," she pointed out, "though I must say I am working up a sweat right now. No, no -- " She pushed Mark back into the chair. "It's good for me. Don't get enough exercise any more. Now you just sit there. You're in a bad way. Anybody who'd fall for such a phony act and release thirty-five thousand points without even an argument -- well, of course," she said archly, "I do have a wellturned ankle." But the enormity of Mark's debit with Central when the old lady should turn in his slip, began to worry him. He wondered if he could get it back from her. He wasn't happy with the world, and things were all wrong, and all that, but still -- well, he did have to live in it. Thirty-five thousand points. He began to worry. He wished he knew what the penalty would be. He wondered if the old lady knew. What were these points all about anyway? "You must know," he said, "how the world got into this mess." She chuckled, "For thirty-five thousand points, I guess you've got a right to the story." She turned into the archway of a standard type B apartment house. He wondered what she would do with all those points. What did anybody do with them? Everybody had about the same living quarters. Food was furnished by automatic venders at the Hydroponic Farms. Clothes were provided, readymade; all you had to do was put your credit card in a machine, punch the buttons for your measurements, and a suit would drop down the chute. Mark got out of the chair and helped her inside with it. He took off his hat and started uncertainly to leave, but she put her hand on his arm, "No, no. Have supper with me. I'll tell you all about everything. Glad to. There aren't many who want to know about things any more." Her apartment was neat and clean. It was hard for Mark to connect it with an old woman shrieking points at him. "My name's Pearl. Point-Plus-Pearlie, they call me. But my real name's Penelope. You can call me Penelope." "Thank you," Mark said gravely, and sat down. Penelope bustled intoan apron and began pulling packages from the. freezer. "We'll have a feed, you and I -- a real feed." She chuckled pleasantly. "After all, you're paying for it." M ark squirmed uncomfortably. "I'll tell you how all this started," Penelope said, popping open a can of high-content protein. "Back before you were bom there were insurance companies. At first they were started to insure your life, and -- " "Your life!" Mark frowned. "How -- " "Never mind. Also, they insured you against loss by fire. Then it was loss by collision of vehicles -- you've never seen an auto, of course -- and so on. Finally they got to insuring you against hurting yourself when you slipped on a cake of soap in the bathtub, and then they insured against a suit for damages by someone who might stub his toe and fall down and break a leg on your sidewalk. Follow me?" "I think so," said Mark doubtfully. "Well, there were all kinds of lawsuits. Two men would be in an accident. Both hurt. Their insurance companies would sue each other. Suppose A knocked over a ladder and B fell down on top of him. B's fall broke A's arm and it broke his own leg. A could sue B for breaking his arm. B could sue A for making him fall. Well, suppose A was insured by company X, and B was insured by company Y. A and B filed claims against each other's companies, and everybody went to court." "You mean they didn't agree on damages?" Mark asked incredulously. "Exactly." Penelope cut off the top of a bottle of enzymes. "It was pretty dumb. But pretty soon the companies got wise. They formed worlung agreements. "When two companies carried insurance on two persons involved in an accident, the companies just presented their claims to each other, and the one with the biggest claim against him paid the difference, while each company paid off the claim of the one it represented. You can see what eventually happened." She punched a button and a dinette table popped out of the wall. "Companies insured people for more and more types of damage, even against being insulted or against a claim for damages for being insulted. The big companies eliminated the small ones, and it was just a matter of bookkeeping among those that were left. Eventually the government took it over." "But look," said Mark, "I don't see -- " "Don't rush me." Penelope put a can into the container-dissolver and punched the button that set out the plates and silverware on the tiny table. "You see, pretty soon everybody was insured for everything possible. People were collecting right and left, mostly small amounts but lots of them. But it took quite a bit of time to file claims and so on. And also, a man spent all he made buying insurance to protect himself. It was a wicked circle. Nobody could quit buying insurance and nobody dared quit filing claims. That's when the government took over. They simplified things. Once a day you turn your slips into Central and the Machine audits your account. That's all there is to it." "But there's nothing else to do," Mark objected. "No entertainment, no work." "Why should there be entertainment? Entertainment means work for somebody. No, Central -- which is the government, of course -- has eliminated work for everybody and at the same time has provided something to keep everybody busy. What w'ork must be done is done by automatic, self-lubricating, self-repairing, self-renewing machinery." She sighed. "It's a brave new world. Everything is neatly worked out. Everybody spends all their time gathering points to offset the points they lose gathering points -- and nobody seems to mind except a few rebels like you and me. I saw that rebellious look in your eyes when you signed my slip. That's why I invited you to come along with me. But, as I said, Central keeps everybody busy all day and half the night trying to balance themselves. There's no labor problem, no unemployment, no relief, no worry about anything." She paused, to dip the vitamins out of the dissolver. "The only catch is -- it's so damned monotonous." Mark blinked, but Penelope whirled on him, the dissolver in one hand. "Why do you think I sit out there and put on my act all day long? Not to get points, though I confess the points are the measure of my success -- but because life is too dull otherwise." She dished out the vitamins. "You say the government did all this?" "Yes." A thought struck Mark. "Who is the government?" the ice-water faucet. She turned her head and stared at him like a bright-eyed bird. "To tell you the truth, Mark, as far as I know the men who used to make up the government disappeared after the last war, about the time all this automatic machinery was put in. We used to have an election every so often, but I haven't heard that word for twenty-five years. Do you know what I think?" "No," Mark said attentively, "I don't think there is any more government!" Penelope said dramatically. "I think all that's left are the Machine and Central Audit Bureau -- which is nothing but a giant posting machine." "Have you seen It -- Central, I mean? I see the concourse where we line up every day to have our cards posted -- but what's behind those twelve hundred windows?" it from one of the last planes. Central covers miles and niiles in both directions. They said then it was the biggest machine on earth -- and do you know, Mark" -- she paused dramatically -- "I think the Machine is the government! Roll up your chair, Mark." Mark did. "But doesn't there have to be somebody to take care of the Machine?" he asked, holding her chair. "Not that I know of. They said it was perfect -- that barring an earthquake it would run for a thousand years without a human hand." The iron-juice cocktail was pretty good, the way Penelope had flavored it with enzymes. But Mark inevitably got back to the thing that worried him. "What will happen when that release slip of mine goes through for thirty-five thousand points?" Penelope raised her white eyebrows. "I don't know, but undoubtedly something drastic. I'll tell you what. I'll hold your slip for a while and you go out and see if you can get some points on your credit side. Stir up a little trouble. Get the points first and argue after."... Mark went out and tried to get some points next day, but he couldn't seem to get his heart in his work. It was all so pointless. Why couldn't the old lady give him back that slip, anyway? Mark got pretty much in the dumps, and after he managed to get his foot stepped on and demanded three hundred points, only to be countered by a claim of four hundred for hurting the other man's instep, he began to feel very low indeed. At the end of the week he was walking slowly along the street watching for Conley, because he was getting further in the red every day, when he saw a foot stuck out in his way and heard a voice say, "Don't you stumble over my lame foot," and he looked up and saw the old lady. Her black eyes were soft. "You don't look happy, Mark." "No." He held out his card. "Hm." Her keen old eyes shot back to his. "Thirty-two hundred in the red. That's more than before. You've lost two hundred points this week, Mark." "I know," he said dully. "Here. Push me, Mark." She pulled the shawl around her and Mark started pushing the wheelchair. "You're a nice boy," she said when they reached a quiet street. "You just can't adjust yourself to this modern world." "I want a job," Mark said stubbornly. "Something to do besides -- well, some kind of mark to aim at, I guess. This point business is just putting in time. I'm not creating anything. Even if I could fasten zippen on feather-beds, I'd be doing something worth while, because it'd be used. But this way of living is like digging a hole and then filling it in again. Why, you don't even dare to get into a fight. Somebody would collect a thousand points every time you hit him. The standard price of a black eye is three thousand. You have to be pretty careful about things like that. And there's always Conley." "Well," Penelope said, "I'm going to make you a proposition. I'll hold up your slip for sixty days, and in the meantime I'll teach you how to get ahead of the game. I'll teach you the tricks of the trade, just as old Point-a-Minute Charlie taught me. They say he averaged a point a minute all his life." "Where is he now?" asked Mark, interested. The old lady pondered. "Come to think of it, I don't know. I remember the last time I talked to him his credit balance was #." She frowned at the tremendous, low-lying dome that covered the horizon in the distance and marked Central Audit Bureau. "I haven't seen him since then." "Hm," said Mark. "Well, now," Penelope said briskly. "I'll make you a regular business deal. I'll teach you, and for all you get, you give me twenty per cent. See how many you can get. Try for ten thousand. That'll give you something to shoot at." "Maybe I can beat the Machine," Mark said eagerly. Penelope swallowed. "They say you can't beat the Machine. But I guess it won't hurt to try." Mark did well. At first he just walked down the street stopping people as fast as he could get to them. "You didn't recognize me. sir," he would say indignantly. "I met you at Central concourse two years ago. Remember? You stood right in front of me in line for three hours, and we talked about our new suits. Remember? My feelings are injured because you ignored me just now. Fifty points. Will you sign my slip, please?" His credit reached the black the first week. He was netting five hundred points a day, and it was fun, but Penelope said, "We'll go for bigger stakes. This is kindergarten stuff. Now here's the way you start... managed to get himself knocked down four times, and each time he came up with a skinned knee and collected from five hundred to eight hundred and fifty points. He was learning, Penelope assured him when he gleefully showed her his card at the end of the day. Mark was elated. That day he had gathered fifty-one hundred points. "But this can get monotonous, too," Penelope said. "Anyway, you can't go around forever with a sandpapered knee. You're learning fast, and you're learning right. Old Point-a-Minute Charlie was the best there was, in his day, and he always said you make more praints guessing character than you do falling down. Know your victim before you have an accident, and then hit him for all he will pay and hit him quick -- the way I did you." She chuckled. "My commission for today is one thousand and twenty points. Here, sign my slip, please." Mark signed. It was a cheap price to pay for the fact that life was no longer pointless. He decided he'd try to gather a credit of one hundred thousand points. He worked on bigger stuff. He didn't try just everybody. He picked his signers with care. He slept until nine every morning and he and Penelope played two-handed bridge at a tenth of a point a point until midnight. He felt sorry for the poor suckers who had to get out at sunup and tread the sidewalks until dark to get enough points to satisfy Central. They were working like slaves, while he was living the life of Point-a-Minute Charlie. It was a lovely existence. He forgot about Penelope's slip for thirtyfive thousand. He could almost pay it off anyway. Then came the day when he pulled his grand coup. He spent a week planning it, with Penelope's shrewd advice. He remembered what she had said about the man on the ladder in the nineteen-forties. He sandpapered his back and painted an irregular spot with merthiolate and iodine, and practiced twisting his back until it looked out of shape. Then he went out and watched for an absent-minded, nervous, excitablelooking man to try his next effort on. Penelope's biggest advice was, "Preparation is half the points," so it was three days before Mark found the right person. After he found him it was very simple. He signaled Penelope to follow, and then he walked behind the man until they came to a high curb. Mark moved out to the left. The man started to step up on the curb. Mark darted across in front of the man just as the man raised his foot. Mark managed to stumble exactly in front of the man. His arms went out and one hand caught the little man's leg. The little man fell squarely on top of him, assisted by a slight push from Penelope. Mark groaned heart-breakingly. In a moment there was a crowd. The little man was getting up, bewildered, and automatically trying to dust off his type K suit. Mark lay half on the curb, half off, squirming like a broken-back snake. "My back," he moaned piteously. "Oh, my back." The little man seemed paralyzed at the enormity of the thing he had done. He stared at Mark and Mark squirmed harder and moaned louder. Then Penelope hobbled up and pulled Mark's shirttail out of his trousers. The iodine spot on his back looked yellow and purple, and there were gasps from the crowd. "He did it!" Mark said, glaring accusingly at the little man. "He tripped me. He tripped me and broke my back!" Penelope was putting on a good act too, crying and wringing her hands and moaning. "My poor boy!" she said, over and over. A woman in the crowd came up and made a very expressive raspberry in the little man's face. The little man was not only bewildered; he was frightened. Mark adjudged the time had come. "Points for my broken back!" he cried. Penelope held out a slip to the little man. He signed it dazedly. then he slipped out of the crowd, while three men picked up Mark and laid him tenderly in Penelope's reclining wheel-chair. Mark could hardly contain himself. As soon as they were safely out of sight he said excitedly, "Let me see the slip." Penelope looked around. She kept pushing him but she handed over the slip. "Fifty thousand points!" Mark read under his breath. "Isn't that wonderful!" He couldn't remember ever having felt so elated in his life. Penelope was shaking her head wonderingly. "That was a good act," she said. "I'd never have had the nerve to try that myself." "Oh, that's nothing." Mark was enthusiastic. "As soon as I get fitted up with a magnelite brace so it'll look good, I'm going to knock a piece out of that curbing, and then if I can find out who's the registered owner of it I'll hit him for twenty-five thousand." M ark got the twenty-five thousand. The owner of the sidewalk was finally convinced that Mark's broken back was worth a lot. From then on there was no holding Mark. Pretending to act for the little man who had originally knocked him down, he located the woman who had made a raspberry in the little man's face and collected another two thousand; the woman didn't recognize Mark, because Mark's features were changed a little. Then Mark spotted two others who had made threatening noises and collected five hundred from each, and from another who expressed doubt that he was really hurt, Mark got a thousand points. There was nothing to it, really. Most people had regular beats, and all Mark had to do was sit at one side in Penelope's wheel-chair and wait for them to come by. He would have collected more if he could have remembered more faces. He saw Conley go by once a day but now he wasn't afraid. He thought Conley looked at him disappointedly. A couple of weeks later he got his card back from the Machine at Central and looked at it with great satisfaction. He had a himdred and thirteen thousand points to his credit. He met Penelope and they went to her apartment for dinner. Jubilantly Mark got all the fancy food -- even some synthetic meat -- that he could get on his card, and they prepared for a feast. "The only thing is," Penelope said as she punched the dishes on the table, "I'm scared. I have a feeling you shouldn't have gone over a hundred thousand." "Is that why you never cashed my slip for thirty-five thousand?" She nodded. "That's mostly the reason. My balance is over eighty thousand and I was afraid." "Afraid of what?" "I don't know. Just afraid." "Well," said Mark, "I'm not. I don't see what Central can do to a person for getting points. There's no rule against it." "It's dangerous," Penelope insisted. "Nevertheless, I have made a decision. A hundred thousand points -- that's nothing." His head was points!" Penelope gasped. "Mark, you mustn't do anything like that. Yon "No," Mark said complacently, "but it's a lot of fun getting them. And it gives me something worth while to do. We'll sit up till three o'clock every morning and play bridge, and I'll stay in bed till noon, and dream up new stunts. I'll pull one a week. Life is going to be worth living." The announcing light showed at the door. Penelope pressed the admittance button. A tall, thin man came in a moment later. "Mark Renner?" he asked. Mark jumped. "Conley!" Mark's stomach had a funny feeling in it. "They told me I would find you here," Conley said. Penelope had recovered enough to gasp. "What do you want?" "I'm from Central Audit Bureau." "That's just lovely," Penelope said, "but it doesn't mean anything to us but a place where we get our cards balanced." "It should mean something to you," Conley said hollowly. "Central is the government." Penelope stared at him. "Sit down, please. I thought Central was just a machine." "It is something more than a machine. There is a small corps of persons who live inside the machine to service it and occasionally adjust it, and those persons really are the government -- that is, all the government we have." He sat down stiffly, his back straight. "Now then, Mr. Renner, your card today showed a credit balance of a hundred and thirteen thousand points. Is that correct?" Mark swallowed. "Yes." He looked at Penelope. She was pale. With difficulty Mark asked, "Is it your job to cheek up on people, to see if they are entitled to their points?" "Oh, my, no. Central doesn't care about that. In fact. Central doesn't care how much anybody's debit is. We figure as long as a man is in debt he'll try to pay it off. They always do, at least. No, we never bother with debits, and I don't suppose we ever would." Mark breathed a sigh of relief. "But a credit of over a hundred thousand is something else," said Conley. "The machines won't handle six figures without trouble, you see, so there has to be a penalty," He looked very sad. "Now, then, I shall have to -- " "Wait!" cried Penelope. "His credit is a himdred and thirteen thousand -- but I have his slip for thirty-five thousand. If I turn it in, that would fix it up for him, wouldn't it." Mark felt a warm wave of gratitude toward Penelope. She was a it. "Well -- yes, I suppose so. We don't like these last-minute adjustments, but I suppose -- " thrust it into Conley's face. "There!" she said triumphantly. "Put that on my account." Conley looked a little sad. "This is your slip?" he asked Mark. Mark nodded gratefully. "Let me have your credit card. Miss Penelope. Now, then. I'll transfer these points -- hm." Conley's eyebrows raised. "Do you know what your balance is now. Miss Penelope?" Penelope's mouth shot open and she popped her hand across it. "You have now a hundred and twenty-two thousand," Conley said. He got up from his chair. "Well, I'm sorry, folks. That's the way it is." Mark gulped. "What way?" "Miss Penelope will have to come with me." Mark was on his feet. "If she goes, I go," he said dramatically. Conley looked at him. "If you feel that way about it, there won't be any trouble at all. You did go over, so I can take you in too." "In where?" Penelope demanded. "A certain number of persons is required to keep Central going, as I said -- actually to be the government. But most of the population today is so apathetic they wouldn't be of any use at all, so years ago some of us who were in Central got an idea. We discovered that whenever any citizen rebels against the monotony of life today, he or she eventually winds up trying to gather a lot of points, because that is the only outlet for energy and ambition. That is the kind of person we need, so when anybody gets over a hundred thousand, the machine warns us. We go after them." Conley picked up his type N hat. "Well, see you in the morning. Punch in your cards at window #. We'll do the rest. And by the way -- " He was at the door. "We start work at eight o'clock." Mark brightened. "Did you say work?" "Oh, it's only four hours a day, five days a week. The rest of the time is your own, only of course you can't come Outside. It would upset things if the general public learned about us. Yes, it's a regular job; not hard work, but steady work. Gives you something to aim for; there are promotions, you know, and extra bonuses for those who show promise." "Work!" Mark said. "Steady work? You mean there'll be something to do all the time?" "Five days a week," said Conley. Mark said, "This is so sudden. Why don't you sit down a minute while we let it soak in? We have plenty of enzymes and stuff for a guest, don't we. Miss Penelope? Why not stay for supper, Conley?" "No, thanks," said Conley. "We have beefsteak and hot biscuits for supper in Central." Penelope shrieked with joy. "Beef!" Mark was puzzled. "What's that?" "It's an old-fashioned food," said Conley. "Rather tasty top." "Please sit down," Penelope begged, "and tell us more." Conley looked at his watch. "Believe I will. My feet get a little tired all day from pounding the pavement. But there isn't much more to tell. You'll find out everything tomorrow. And I'm sure you'll like it. We try to give each person work to challenge him." "What if a person wouldn't want to go to Central?" "Very few ever object. Once in a while they are afraid and run away, but we just register their number with all the machines, and whenever that number is presented for food or clothes, the machines reject the card." He paused. "A very neat arrangement. Of course, inside of Central the point system as you know it now will be of no value whatever. We use money in Central." Penelope had a can of synthetic meat in her hands. "Beef!" she said suddenly, and hurled the can into the disintichute. "I'm going to starve all night so I can enjoy eating tomorrow." "So nobody ever gets away?" asked Mark. "Very seldom, though there's one fellow playing a game with Central. He must have gotten wind of us, and he keeps careful check on his points. About once every three months he starts going strong. He'll be putting in eight or ten thousand points a day. Then his balance will shoot up over a hundred thousand and I'll go after him, but he's always just signed away a lot of points. Would you believe it, the last time he had given away fifty thousand points to a fellow who claimed a broken back. He said he knew it was a phony, but he had me there and he laughed at me, for he had signed away the points. The slip showed up next day." Mark looked at Penelope and grinned. "We should have known that nobody in his right mind would give away fifty thousand points." Conley raised his hand in a salute. "See you tomorrow at Central. If they don't keep you busy, look me up." Mark watched him leave. Then he looked beamingly at Penelope. "Work! Every day! Eight o'clock! We'll have to get up before breakfast! Isn't it wonderful?" But Penelope's bird-like eyes were bright. "He said there would be promotions and bonuses for those who show promise," she recalled. "I wish we had known that. We could have made a cleanup and gone into Central with a record that would make their eyes pop out. Anyhow" -- sh dug her pad of release blanks out of her pocket and began to figure on the back. "Let's see, fifty thousand from the little man who's playing a game with Central, twenty-five from the owner of the sidewalk, two thousand for the raspberry, five hundred each from two who made noises of disrespect, and a thousand from the man who doubted that yoim back was really broken. You could have collected two thousand from that last one," she said absently, "if you hadn't got cold feet. Anyway, that's seventy-nine thousand points. Now, then, twenty per cent of that is fifteen thousand, eight hundred points." She wrote rapidly and held out the pad to Mark. "Sign my slip, please." Coming in the January Issue! Oheck and Checkmate startling situation in which lowly subterfuge is mightier than the atom -- and we of the western world arc the stooges!... Also in this issue are such outstanding science fiction adventures other exciting stories and features. No matter what the future, one factor must always be reckoned with -- the ingenuity of the human animal. Let There Be Light By Horace B. Fyfe T he two men attacked the thick tree trunk with a weary savagery. In the bright sunlight, glistening spatters of sweat flew from them as the old axes bit alternately into the wood. Blackie stood nearby, on the gravel shoulder of the highway, rubbing his short beard as he considered the depth of the white notch. Turning his broad, tanned face to glance along the patched and cracked concrete to where squat Vito kept watch, he caught the latter's eye and beckoned. "Okay, Sid -- Mike. We'll take it a while." The rhythm of the axe-strokes ceased. Red Mike swept the back of a forearm across the semi-shaven stubble that set him as something of a dandy. Wordlessly, big Sid ambled up the road to replace Vito. "Pretty soon, now," boasted Mike, eyeing the cut with satisfaction. "Think it'll bring them?" "Sure," replied Blackie, spitting on his hands and lifting one of the worn tools. "That's what they're for." "Funny," mused Mike, "how some keep going an' others bust. These musta been workin' since I was a little kid -- since before the last bhtz." "Aw, they don't hafta do much. 'Cept in winter when they come out to clear snow, all they do is put in a patch now an' then." Mike stared moodily at the weathered surface of the highway and edged back to avoid the reflected heat. "It beats me how they know a spot has cracked." "I guess there's machines to run the machines," sighed Blackie. "I dunno ; I was too young. Okay, Vito?" The relieving pair fell to. Mike stepped out of range of the flying chips to sit at the edge of the soft grass which was attempting another invasion of the gravel shoulder. Propelled by the strength of Vito's powerful torso, a single chip spun through the air to his feet. He picked it up and held it to his nose. It had a good, clean smell. When at length the tree crashed down across the road, Blackie led them to the ambush he had chosen that morning. It was fifty yards up the road toward the ruined city -- off to the side where a clump of trees and bushes provided shade and concealment. "Wish we brought something to eat." Vito said. "Didn't know it would take so long to creep up on 'em this morning," said Blackie. "The women'll have somethin' when we get back." "They better," said Mike. He measured a slender branch with his eye. After a moment, he pulled out a hunting knife, worn thin by years of sharpening, and cut off a straight section of the branch. He began whittling. "You damn' fool!" Sid objected. "You want the busted spot on the tree to show?" "Aw, they ain't got the brains to notice." "The hell they ain't! It stands out like one o' them old street signs. D'ya think they can tell, Blackie?" "I dunno. Maybe." Blackie rose cautiously to peer over a bed of blackberry bushes. "Guess I'll skin up a tree an' see if anything's in sight." He hitched up his pants, looking for an easy place to climb. His blue denims had been stoutly made, but weakened by many rips and patches, and he did not want to rip them on a snag. It was becoming difficult to find good, unrotted clothing in the old ruins. over his head, he sprang for it, pulled, kicked against the trunk, and flowed up into the foliage with no apparent effort. The others waited below. Sid glanced up occasionally, Vito idly kicked at one of the clubs made from an old two-byfour. The other lay beneath the piled jackets; but enough of the end protruded to show that they had been chopped from the same timber, gray-painted on one side, stained and gouged on the other where boards had once been nailed. A coU of rope lay beside the axes. High in the upper branches, Blackie braced himself with negligent confidence and stared along the concrete ribbon. From here, he thought, you'd almost think the place was still alive. instead of crumbling around our ears. The windows of the distant houses were dark, unglassed holes, but the sunlight made the masonry clean and shining. To Blackie, the ragged tops of most of the buildings were as natural as the tattered look of the few people he knew. Beyond, toward the center of the city, was real evidence of his race's bygone might -- a vast jumble of shattered stone and fused metal. Queer weeds and mosses infected the area, but it would be centuries before they could mask the desolation. Better covered, were the heaps along the road, seemingly shoved just beyond the gravel shoulders -- mouldering mounds which legend said were once machines to ride in along the pavement. Something glinted at the bend of the highway. Blackie peered closer. He swarmed down the tree from branch to branch, so lithely that the trio below hardly had the warning of the vibrating leaves before he dropped, cat-footed, among them. "They're cornin'!" He shrugged quickly into his stained jacket, emulated in silent haste by the others. Vito rubbed his hands down the hairy chest left revealed by his open jacket and hefted one of the clubs. In his broad paws, it seemed light. They were quiet, watching Sid peer out through narrowly parted brush of the undergrowth. Blackie fidgeted behind him. Finally, he reached out as if to pull the other aside, but at that moment Sid released the bushes and crouched. The others, catching his warning glance, fell prone, peen'ng through shrubbery and around tree trunks with savage eyes. The distant squawk of a jay became suddenly very dear, as did the sighing of a faint bi rc.e through the leaves overhead. Then a new, clanking, humming sound intruded. A procession of three vehicles rolled along the highway at an unvarying pace which took no account of patches or worn spots. They jounced in turn across a patch laid over a previous, unsuccessful patch, and halted before the felled tree. Two were bulldozers; the third was a light truck with compartments for tools. No human figures were visible. A moment later, the working force appeared -- a column of eight robots. These deployed as they reached the obstacle, and explored like colossal ants along its lenh. "What're they after?" asked Mike, whispering although he lay fifty yards away. "They're lookin' over the job for whatever sends them out," Blackie whispered back. "See those little lights stickin' out the tops o' their heads? I heard tell, once, that's how they're run." Some of the robots took saws from the truck and began to cut through the tree trunk. Others produced cables and huge hooks to attach the obstacle to the bulldozers. "Look at 'em go!" sighed Sid, hunching his stiff shoulders jealously. "Took us hours, an' they're half done already." They watched as the robots precisely severed the part of the tree that blocked the highway, going not one inch beyond the gravel shoulder, and helped the bulldozers to tug it aside. On the opposite side of the concrete, the shoulder tapered off into a six-foot drop. The log was jockeyed around parallel to this ditch and rolled into it, amid a thrashing of branches and a spurting of small pebbles. "Glad we're on the high side," whispered Mike. "That thing 'ud squash a guy's guts right out!" "Keep listenin' to me," Blackie said, "an' you'll keep on bein' in the right place at the right time." Mike raised his eyebrows at Vito, who thrust out his lower lip and nodded sagely. Sid grinned, but no one contradicted the boast. "They're linin' up," Blackie warned tensely. "You guys ready? Where's that rope?" Someone thrust it into his hands. Still squinting at the scene on the highway, he fumbled for the ends and held one out to Mike. The others gripped their clubs. "Now, remember!" ordered Blackie. "Me an' Mike will trip up the last one in line. You two get in there quick an' wallop him over the head -- but good!" "Don't go away while we're doin' it," said big Sid. "They won't chase ya, but they look out fer themselves. I don't wanna get tossed twenty feet again!" The eyes of the others flicked toward the jagged white scar running down behind Sid's right ear and under the collar of his jacket. Then they swung back to the road. "Good!" breathed Blackie. "The rollin' stuff's goin' first." The truck and bulldozers set out toward the city, with the column of robots marching a fair distance behind. The latter approached the ambush -- drew abreast -- began to pass. Blackie raised himself to a crouch with just the tips of his fingers steadying him. he surged out of the brush, joined to Red Mike by their grips on the twenty feet of rope. They ran up behind the marching machine, trailed by the others. In his right hand, Blackie twirled the part of the rope hanging between him and Mike. On the second swing, he got it over the head of the robot. He saw Mike brace himself. The robot staggered. It pivoted clumsily to its left, groping vaguely for the hindrance. Mike and Blackie tugged again, and the machine wound up facing them in its efforts to maintain balance. Its companions marched steadily along the road. "Switch ends!" barked Blackie. Alert, Mike tossed him the other end of the rope and caught Blackie's. They ran past the robot on either side, looping it in. Blackie kept going until he was above the ditch. He wound a turn of rope about his forearm and plunged down the bank. A shower of gravel spattered after him as Mike jammed his heels into the shoulder of the highway to anchor the other end. Then he heard the booming sound of the robot's fall. Blackie clawed his way up the bank. Vito and Sid were smashing furiously at the floundering machine. Mike danced about the melee with bared teeth, charging in once as if to leap upon the quarry with both feet. Frustrated by the peril of the whirling two-byfours,he swept up handfuls of gravel to hurl. Blackie turned to run for one of the axes. Just then, Sid struck home to the head of the robot. Sparks spat out amid a tinkle of glass. The machine ceased all motion. "All right!" panted Blackie. "All right! That's enough!" They stepped back, snarls fading. A handful of gravel trickled through Mike's fingers and pattered loudly on the concrete. Gradually, the men began to straighten up, seeing the robot as an inert heap of metal rather than as a weird beast in its death throes. "We better load up an' get," said Blackie. "We wanna be over on the trail if they send somethin' up the road to look for this" Vito dragged the robot off the highway by the head, and they began the ta of lashing it to the twoby-fours. It was about two hours later when they plodded around a street corner among the ruins and stopped before a fairly intact building. By that time, they had picked up an escort of dirty, half-clad children who ran ahead to spread the news. Two other men and a handful of women gathered around with eager exclamations. The hunters dropped their catch. "Better get to work on him," said Blackie, glancing at the sky. "Be dark soon." The men who had remained as guards ran inside the entrance of polished granite and brought out tools : hammers, crowbars, hatchets. Behind them hurried women with basins and large cans. The original four, weary from the weight of the robot despite frequent pauses on the trail, stepped back. "Where first, Blackie?" asked one of the men, waiting for the women to untangle the rope and timbers. "Try all the joints. After that, we'll crack him open down the middle for the main supply tank." He watched the metal give way under the blows. As the robot was dismembered, the fluid that had lubricated the complex mechanism flowed from its wounds and was poured by the women into a fivegallon can. "Bring a cupful, Judy," Blackie told his woman, a wiry blond girl. "I wanna see if it's as good as the last." He lit a stick at the fire as they crossed the littered, once-ornate lobby, and she followed him down a dim hall. He pulled aside the skins that covered their doorway, then stumbled his way to the table. The window was still uncovered against the night chill, but it looked out on a courtyard shadowed by towering walls. To eyes adjusted to the sunny street, the room was dark. Judy poured the oil into the makeshift lamp, waited for the rag ( Continued on page #) With no one to help him, it seemed the General was lost. But the enemy was soon to discover that -- By M. C. Pease D id it go well?" the aide asked. The admiral, affectionately known as the Old Man, did not reply until he'd closed the door, crossed the room, and dropped into the chair at his desk. Then he said: "Go well? It did not go at all. Every blasted one of them, from the President on down, can think of nothing but the way the Combine over-ran Venus. When I mention P-boats, they shout that the Venusians depended on P-boats, too, and got smashed by the Combine's dreadnoughts in one battle. 'You can't argue with it, man,' they tell me. And they won't listen." "But the Venusians fought their P-ships idiotically," the aide complained. "It was just plain silly to let small, light, fast ships slug it out with dreadnoughts. If they had used Plan K -- " The Old Man snorted. "Are you trying to convince me? I've staked my whole reputation on Plan K. They wouldn't give me the money to build a balanced spacefleet, even when the fleets of the Combine of Jupiterian Satellite States were staring them in the face. So, I took what I could get and poured it into P-boats. I threw all our engineering and scientific staff into making them faster and more maneuverable than anyone ever thought a space-ship could be. I got them to build me electronic computers that could direct that speed. And, two years ago, every cent I could lay my hands on went to install the computers on all our ships." "I remember," the aide said. "But, now the chips are down, the people have funked out on me. I am one of the most hated men in the Federation. They say I destroyed their Navy. And, we are not going to get a chance to try Plan K. They decided, today, to accept the Combine's offer to send envoys in a month to discuss possible revision of the Treaty of Porran. When I left, they were wondering if there was any chance of getting out for less than Base Q." "But, good lord, sir, Base Q supplies nine tenths of all our power. The Combine will have a strangle hold on us, if they get that." "Quite. But the people will give it to them, rather than fight. And the President will sign." "Surely, sir, the people are not all cowards?" "No. If they had time to think, they would fight. That's why the Combine is striking now. The people are panicky. Hysterical. The collapse of Venus was so sudden, and the disaster to their P-boats so complete. They've just lost hope. Most people would rather live under a dictator than die to no purpose. They've just lost hope." The pounding of the Old Man's fist measured his words and the depth of his anger. 'Tf we could only make them hope. Somehow. Anyhow." Suddenly, his clenched fist stopped in mid-air. He frowned. Slowly, his hand opened. The frown relaxed and a smile replaced it. "Maybe we can, at that. Maybe we can." He leaned back with his eyes half closed. His aide knew better than to interrupt him. Ten minutes later, he opened his eyes. "Make arrangements to have Commander Morgan take command of Base Q as soon as possible. Within two days at the outside." His manner was curt and clipped. "And bring him here to me before he leaves." "Yes, sir. But may I say, sir, I do not understand?" "You're not supposed to." "Yes, sir." The aide was a competent man. Orders were written that afternoon, in complete disregard of normal red-tape. Base Q was advised of the imminent shift. Commander Stanley Morgan boarded a jet plane on the Australian desert that night. The next morning, he was shown into the Old Man's office. "Commander," the Old Man said after the preliminaries were taken care of, "as you are well aware, you have been in considerable disgrace, recently, for getting too close to the Venusian-Combine war, in defiance of orders. It has been felt, in certain quarters, that you might have caused a serious international crisis." speak, but the admiral waved him to silence. "You could, if you like, point out that the crisis has come, anyhow. As a matter of fact, I never felt that that phase of your action was too important. I did, however, deplore your disregard of orders -- and still do." He paused a moment, while his steel gray eyes studied the younger man. "You are about to receive new orders. It is absolutely imperative that these orders be obeyed explicitly." His pointing finger punctuated his words with slow emphasis. "These orders place you in command of Base Q. The Treaty of Porran, among other things, designates the asteroid Quanlik, or Base Q, as being die territory solely of the Federation and suitable for the establishment of a delta-level energy converter. Because this converter is the prime source of gamma-level, degenerate matter which is used as the fuel for nearly all our power generators, Base Q is recognized as a prime defense area of the Federation. A sphere, one hundred thousand miles radius about Quanlik, was designated by the treaty as a primary zone. Any ship or ships entering this zone may be ordered to leave within one hour. Upon failure to comply, our military forces may take such action as they deem necessary. A sphere, twenty thousand miles radius, is designated as the secondary zone. Assuming the prior warning has been given upon their entrance into the primary zone, full action may be taken against any ship entering this without delay or further warning. "Standing orders with regard to Base Q are that any ship entering the primary zone shall be warned immediately. Upon failure to comply, after the one hour period, full action shall be taken with the forces stationed on Quanlik. Any ship entering the secondary zone shall be brought to action as soon as possible without warning. "Your orders direct you to assume command of Base Q and to comply with existing standing orders regarding the maintenance of its security until and unless advised of a change in the standing orders or the Treaty of Porran." The Old Man paused for effect. "Any questions?" "Yes, sir," the younger man said. "I am wondering if I should inquire what events you are anticipating. Would it be wise for me to ask?" "No!" The monosyllable cracked out like a shot. "No further questions, sir." "I have one. While you were in Australia, I presume you kept well informed on recent developments of Plan K?" "Yes, sir. The school I commanded taught advanced theory of Plan K." "Very good. You will proceed immediately to Base Q. As a final word I will repeat the absolute necessity of obeying your orders to the letterX Good luck." The young man saluted, collected his orders and walked out. Two hours later, he was in space. was perched in a plastic bubble high on a crag overlooking Base Q. Directly below it lay a few of the multitude of locks that provided haven for the protecting fleet of Pships. A vast array of domes and other geometrical shapes bore witness to the hive of machine-shops, storerooms, offices, et al, that kept the fleet operating. And on the far horizon towered the mighty structure of the delta-level converter, the reason for the existence of Base Q. test steel and special alloys, machined to tolerances of less than a thousandth of an inch, with another hundred thousand tons of control equipment, it was yet delicate enough so that it could not have functioned in the gravity field of any planet. This asteroid, small as it was, was barely below the permissible limit. The Commander sat at his desk, watching the latest flashes in the news-caster. They were not good. At this very moment, the President of the Federation was in conference with the representatives of the Combine, discussing the wording of the protocol that would probably be signed in a few hours. And no word -- no hint -- that anyone in the Federation outside the services was red light flashed on his desk. A buzzer sounded a strident call. He flipped a switch. "Commander talking." "Far-Search talking. Report contact with large group of ships, probably dreadnought warships. Range, two one oh. Bearing, four oh dash one nine. Speed, seven five. Course, approaching. That is all," "Keep me advised any change or further details. Advise when contact ranges one five oh." "Wilco." The Commander pressed a button on his desk. In response, his staff quickly assembled to brief him on the immediate status of Base Q as a war-making machine. As a matter of routine, it was always kept fully ready. His staff merely confirmed this for him. Seventy-five thousand miles out in space, the Radars of the FarSearch net swept their paths. Men labored over their plotting tables, noting the information the radar echoes brought back ; slowly piecing together the picture. Tight communication beams relayed the data back to the base as fast as it was obtained. About an hour later, the red light flashed again. The assembled staff fell quiet as the Commander flipped the switch, again. "Commander talking." "Far-Search talking. Contact previously reported now range one five oh. Bearing, four one dash one seven. Course, approaching. Speed, six nine. Estimated twenty three ships, dreadnought type, plus small ship screen. Battle formation. That is all." "Advise at range one one oh." "Wilco." The Commander turned to his staff. "Sound a general alert." His words were clipped and clear. He flipped a second switch on his desk. "Radio, this is the Commander. Get me a direct beam to the Chief of Staff. Highest urgency. Scramble with sequence Charlie." His office had emptied by now. with officers running to their posts as the siren of the general alert wailed through the corridors. As its urgent call died off, a green light showed on his desk, indicating contact with earth. "Morgan, Commander, Base Q, requesting direct line to Chief of Staff. Highest urgency." "Go ahead, Morgan." The Old Man's voice sounded peculiar after passing through the scrambling and unscrambling machines that twisted the sounds into queer pieces and distributed them among several frequencies and methods of modulation. But, even so, it had a note of strain in it that was not artificial. "Sir, when you gave me my orders, here, you directed me to obey them to the letter, without question or cavil. Is that right, sir?" "Yes, it is." There was a threat in the Old Man's voice. "Then, sir, would you tell me if there has been any change in those orders since my arrival? Aside from administrative details, of course?" "No. Absolutely not." "Very good, sir. Sorry to have bothered you." "Not at all. Quite right. Good luck. Signing out." Morgan thought the Old Man sounded relieved at the end. And he could not be quite sure, but he thought he heard the Admiral mutter "And good hunting," as the connection broke. He summoned his aide to take over the office while he went down to the center of the asteroid where I.C., the information center, was located, where he would assume direct command of the base. Ships Supply Officer reported all ships fully loaded and fueled with gamma-matter, ready for flight. The Missile Officer reported all ships equipped with war-head missiles. The Lock Officer reported all locks manned and ready. Base Q was ready. As he climbed to his chair over the plotting tank, he noted with satisfaction the controlled tautness of the men's faces. They too, were ready. As the glowing points of yellow light that represented the enemy fleet crossed the dimly lit sphere in the tank that indicated the one hundred thousand mile radius marking the edge of the primary zone, he took a microphone from a man waiting, nearby. "Base Q to unknown fleet. I have you bearing four one dash one seven. Range one oh oh. Identify yourself. Identify yourself. Over." His words were spaced out with painful clarity. A hush had fallen over I.C. The loud speaker on the wall came to life with a squawk, after a few seconds. "Fleet Four to Base Q. This is Fleet Four, operating under orders from the Jupiterian Combine. Over." "Base Q to Fleet Four. According to the Treaty of Porran, space within a radius of one hundred thousand miles of Base Q has been designated a primary defense zone of the Federation. I therefore order you to leave this zone within one hour. Failure to comply will make you.liable to full action on our part. I have the time, now, as one three four seven. You have until one four four seven to comply. I further warn you that an approach within twenty thousand miles will make you liable to immediate action, regardless of time. Over." The men in the room stared, open-mouthed. All had dreamed of hearing these words spoken in these tones to the Combine. A cheer might have been given, had it not been for discipline. In a few seconds, the loud-speaker squawked again. "Fleet Four to Base Q. Our orders are to assume a position at twenty-five thousand miles radius pending renegotiation of the Treaty of Porran. I suggest you contact your headquarters before doing anything rash. Over." The Commander sat with a smile on his lips. Quietly he handed the microphone back to the radioman. In a minute, the loud-speaker squawked, again. "Fleet Four to Base Q. Did you receive my last transmission? Acknowledge, please. Over." The radioman looked at the Commander, questioningly, but he only shook his head. "Can't you turn that damn squawk-box off? It's distracting." As the minutes crept by, the bright dots in the tank moved closer. The Commander took the Public Address microphone. "Attention, all personnel, this is the Commander talking. The Fourth Fleet of the Combine entered the Zone twenty minutes ago. They were given an ultimatum but are showing no indication of compliance. Therefore, we are going to blast hell out of them." The echoes from his voice rolled back from speakers all over the base. "The people at home do not think we can do it. I know we can. I have not asked their permission. It is not needed. My orders are explicit and fully cover the situation. My orders to you are equally explicit. Go out there and teach the bloody bastards a lesson." He turned back to the men in I. C. "Scramble flights one, two, three, and four. Others to follow at intervals of five minutes until all are in space. Flight plan King Baker. Initial Time, one four five oh. Execute." The talkers took up the chant. "Flight one. Flight one. Scramble. Scramble. Execute." "Flight two... Etc. In the tank, green points of light moved out. The first four came into position and stopped in the four quadrants of the circle of which the center was the point at which the enemy would be at Initial Time. The following flights moved out to other points on the circle. Time seemed to stop. In I. C., the Flight Directors gave the orders that moved their flights into position and briefed them on future tactics in quiet voices. The electronic computers and other devices moved silently. The clock made no noise as its hands moved towards the final moment. The Commander moved some dials under his hands. He pushed a button and a red light showed on the lead dreadnought of the enemy column. "This is the initial target." The designation was relayed to the flights. The second hand of the clock was making its final sweep. All voices quieted. The Commander raised his fist. As the clock's hand came to the top, his fist slashed down. "Execute!" The battle was on. F light Commander Dennis, Flight One, heard the final word as he sat in the small bubble on top of the dense package of machinery that was a P-ship. Swiftly, his hands closed switches. The course had already been chosen and fed into the automatic computers under him. He merely gave the signal to execute. In response, the ship seemed to pick itself up and hurl itself down the radius of the circle to the waiting enemy fleet. He could not see them, but he knew that, behind him, lay the other nine ships of the flight, in column, spaced so close that an error in calculation of but a few caused disaster. But the automatic and inconceivably fast and accurate calculators in the ships, tied together by tight communication beams, held them there in safety. As he came within range of possible enemy action, Dennis pressed another button, and the Random Computer took command. Operated by the noise a vacuum tube generates because electrons are discrete particles, it gave random orders, weighted only by a preference to bring the ship's course back to the remembered target. The column behind obeyed these same orders. The whole flight seemed to jitter across space, moving at random but coming back to a reasonably good course towards the target, utterly confusing any enemy fire-control computers. To the men in the shijjs, one to each, it seemed as if their very nerve cells must jar apart. They felt themselves incapable of coherent action, or, even, thought. But they did not need coherency. Their function was done until the ship was out of danger, when a new formation would be made, a new target designated, and a new order to execute given. Because the electronic computers took care of the attack. They had to. No human could react as fast as was needed. Out from the enemy ships reached fingers of pure deltafield, reaching for gamma-matter. The touch of a finger meant death in a fiery inferno as the gammamatter that fueled the ship and formed the war-heads of their lethal eggs would release its total energy. There was only one defense. The delta-field could be propagated only in a narrow beam, and at a rate much slower than the speed of light. By keeping the enemy computers confused, they kept those beams wandering aimlessly through space, always where the little ships might have been, but were not. Unless their luck ran out. Flight One kept moving in, with constantly increasing speed, except for random variations. Once through the outer screen of small ships, a relay closed and the link was broken betvyeen the ships of the column. Each then moved in independent manner. The designated target was an area to the computers, rather than a ship. Radar beams reached out to find specific targets. As they found them and moved close, the random computer switched off for a small moment of time, while the missies were dispatched on a true bearing. And then the ships moved on, leaving their eggs behind them. The eggs moved in with fantastic acceleration to their targets. Half their energy went into that acceleration, to get them there before the delta beams could find them. The other half was given up in incandescent heat when they found their targets. Becoming pinpoints of pure star matter, they seared their way into the enemy vitals. But, even with their fantastically concentrated energy, it was not enough. For the dreadnoughts were armored with densely degenerate matter, impervious to any but a direct hit, and compartmented to require many hits. The flights moved in and passed on through. And other flights came in. And others followed them. The first flights halted, found each other, turned, and drove in again. Pass and repass. A myriad of bluewhite flashes gave measure of the struggle. the Commander watched the tank. Curt orders designated new target areas as the enemy fleet broke up under the whiplash. Slowly, one by one, the points of light that marked the enemy vanished, leaving only the void. Finally, as must any fleet that faces annihilation, they turned and fled. The battle was over. All that remained was to give the orders to bring the flights home. And that was soon done. The Commander got up. He stretched. He was tired. He glanced at the clock. Two hours and forty minutes. Very quick, indeed, as space battles usually went. But, then, he thought grimly, this had been the first battle ever fought under the whiplash of Plan K. But, now, there was a report to be made. And he did not know how to do it. As he walked back wearily to his office, he tried out phrases in his mind. None seemed to fit. His aide was bending over the facsimile machine as he came in. "Priority orders from the General Staff, just coming in, sir." The Commander looked at the machine. "General Staff to Commander, Base Q, Urgent, Immediate Action," he read. "You are hereby advised that a protocol has been signed at Washington, D. C., with representatives of the Combine, revising the Treaty of Porran to the extent that Base Q shall be jointly administered by yourself and the Commander, Fourth Fleet, Jupiterian Combine, until such time as its further dispensation shall have been agreed. You will, therefore, admit said Fleet upon demand, permitting it to take up such stations as it may desire, in either zone, or to land, in whole or in part, and to disembark such of its personnel as its commanding officer may direct. You will make arrangements with its commanding ofBcer for the joint administration of the base. You will be held responsible for the smooth operation and successful accomplishment of this undertaking. These orders are effective immediately." Commander Morgan smiled. "Send this reply immediately," he said to his aide. "Open code. Commander, Base Q, to General Staff, Highest urgency. Acknowledge receipt recent orders regarding protocol revising Treaty of Porran. Regret unable to comply. Due to recent argument over interpretation of Treaty of Porran, Fourth Fleet, Combine, no longer exists. Request further orders." He laughed. On earth, the officer who took the message gaped at it. Seizing a telephone, he dictated it to the Old Man's aide. But when the Old Man saw it, he only smiled, coldly. And his smile was bleak and cold, too, when he laid it before the President and the Cabinet an hour later. Shortly afterwards, when the President broadcast it to the people, they sat, stunned. It was not until the next day that they finally read its significance and started celebrating. But the Old Man had ceased smiling by that time, and was planning possible future battles. A month later, Morgan sat again in the Old Man's office. Having presented his report and swallowed the unpleasant pill that, as he was now a hero, there were speeches to make and banquets to be bored at, he was talking informally. "What I can't understand, sir, is why they came in. They only had to wait a couple of hours and the whole kit and caboodle would have been dumped in their laps. Yet they come barging in and give us exactly the opening we want. I don't get it." "That is an interesting question," the Old Man replied with a shadow of a twinkle. "You might almost think they had intercepted an order I sent to our Intelligence Officer, on Q, to sabotage the Converter if the protocol was signed." The Commander jumped. "Was that order given, sir?" "Yes, it was. But it was countermanded an hour later. Different channel, however. I remembered they had broken the code of the first channel." He paused a moment. "That illustrates a good point to remember, Morgan. You intercept enemy messages and break their code. A very useful trick. Also very dangerous, if the enemy discovers you have broken it, and you don't know that he knows. Very dangerous, indeed." The young man laughed. The older one smiled, bleakly. As Morgan looked out the window, he saw the public news-casters spelling out the full mobilization of the Federation. A glow filled his heart as he realized the had to, to fight to defend their freedom. Personalities in Seience , was but one facet of his myriad A lonely figure walked perfections -- and probably a minor Florentine streets... In truth, he left few paintings, A pproximately five hunand some of those, unfinished. His dred years ago. Nature did its Magi was never finest job of human creation, and finished. We have his Jerome has apparently been resting up and the Virgin of the Rocks among from the task ever since. This creaothers. And of course, what was tion, an illegitimate child born to Probably the greatest artirtic effort one Ser Piero Da Vinci and a ver produced by mz.n -- The Last peasant girl of sixteen in a village Supper. called Vinci, a few miles from FlorBut, while other great artists of ence, Italy, became the golden man the time collected the huge fees ofof his time and of times to come. fered for portraiture and epic Those were the days of the great works, Leonardo seems to have political princes, of the sinister stwd aloof from the lure of money. Medici clan, of Lorenzo the MagHis notebooks and personal records nificent, the scoundrel of the chart his course as one of bservaRenaissance. Days when intrigue tion, study almost, it appears, of and cruelty were developed as fine meditation on the vast possibilities arts. And through this period and developments which he alone walked Leonardo, contributing to in his time could sense and its greatness, but remaining unchart. touched by its carnality and rottenThus we see him haunting the ness. slums of Florence for the face of While this was the Renaissance Judas to be used in The Last Supfrom which sprang the renewed efper. We see him standing, aloof, in forts of Man to discover and reflect a mob howling around the gibbet of his true dignity, the actual narBandino -- hung by the Medici -- to rowness of the period is seen in the observe and record in his notebook, fact that Leonardo Da Vinci is the peculiar contortion of this last known today mainly as an artist agony -- the facial distortions. Leowithout peer. In most minds, this is nardo was the student who said, no "We have no right to love or hate anything until we have a full knowledge of it." in their revelations of his broad concepts. Sadly, he worried not at all about posterity's interest in his work. He made no effort to keep orderly records. At least # pages of his writings are scattered over the world in various galleries and museums. Possibly as many were destroyed or lie undiscovered. What we have shows that Leonardo founded, through his personal work, many formal channels of today's study. He was the father of engineering, anatomy, geology. He was a biologist, a hydrographer, a geometrician, a mathematician, a discerning student of optics. In a letter to the Duke of Milan, when seeking employment with that overlord, Leonardo listed various capacities in which he could be of value; a list which no employment seeker of today -- with all of today's advantages -- could begin to duplicate : Leonardo wrote in part: "I have a method of constructing very light and portable bridges to be used in pursuit of, or retreat from, the enemy, with others of a stronger sort, proof against fire and easy to fix or remove. "For the service of sieges, I am prepared to remove the water from the ditches, and to make an infinite variety of scaling-ladders and other engines proper to such purposes. "I have also, most convenient and portable bombs, proper for throwing showers of small missiles, and with the smoke thereof, causing great terror to the enemy. "By means of excavations made without noise, and forming tortuous and narrow ways, I have a means of reaching any given point, even though it be necessary to pass beneath rivers. "I can also construct covered wagons, secure and indestructible, which, entering among the enemy, will break the strongest bodies of men; and behind these the infantry can follow in safety and without impediment. "I can make mortars and fieldpieces of beautiful and useful shape, entirely different from those in common use. "For naval conflicts, I have means of making numerous instruments, offensive and defensive. I can also make powders and vapors in the offense of the enemy. "In times of peace I believe I could equal any other as regards works in architecture. I can prepare designs in buildings whether public or private, and also conduct water from one place to another. "Furthermore, I can execute works in sculpture, marble, bronze, or terra-cotta. In painting also, I can do what may be done, as well as any other, whosoever he may be. "I can also undertake the execution of the bronze horse which is a monument that will be to the perpetual glory of my lord your father of happy memory and of the illustrious house of Sforza. "And if any of the above-named things shall seem to any man impossible or impracticable, I am perfectly ready to make trial of them in whatever place you shall be pleased to command, commending myself to you with all possible humility." Leonardo of course went to work for the Duke. For sixteen years he busied himself with all the things indicated in his letter of application. He finished the construction of a cathedral. He built canal and locks. He drained marshes. He invented the machine gun and the breech loading cannon. He built, also, the statue of the horse and painted The Last Supper. B ut above all, he showed that true greatness contains the quality of serenity. He lived simply while becoming at the same time a legend among the people. A lordly figure, he never walked the streets but what all eyes followed him and all tongues whispered. But, beyond all doubt, he was lonely. Aloof from desires of princely splendor or hermitical detachment, he tread the common middle way, yet still above the vices with which many common men combat boredom or life's hostility. In his written pages, he refers to a woman but once and then only to mention her "fantastic face". There is no record of a love affair, nor even an intellectual companionship with a woman. Yet, in his instincts he certainly knew women well. Witness the Mona Lisa smile. The immortal gentleness and compassion on the faces of the Madonna and St. Anne in the painting of the same naiiie. Perhaps it is more accurate to say that Leonardo Da Vinci knew no one, but rather everyone -- no thing, but all things, with an understanding and an instinctive discipline that made it impossible for him to portray -- in any of his many mediums -- anything but truth. When the Duke of Milan, Leonardo's sponsor, came finally to grief, Leonardo's comment was indicative of his character -- of the epic impersonality with which he viewed all things. The Duke's downfall was brought about by the French, who crossed the Alps and took Milan over. Leonardo wrote: "This day, the Duke lost his state, his possessions, his liberty -- and none of his works is completed." Leonardo made no comment on the fact that his own fortunes had been drained by the invasion. His work went on, however. He moved under the mantel of Caesar Borgia, of evil reputation, invented the diving bell, the swimming belt, then moved into a career that took him all over central Italy -- that of a cartographer. Of course, he excelled in this also. Paralyzed, in later years, he lost the use of his hands, but his mind went on working and, in the end, he wrote: "When I thought I had been learning how to live -- I had only been learning to die." This last he did, in his sixtyseventh year. And perhaps we are wrong in saying he lived before his time. Perhaps that will be said also, in future times, of greats who have enriched our present years. -- pwf By R. S. Richardson A New Major Planet ing astronomical announcement one could imagine would be the discovery of a new major planet within the present confines of the solar system. Impossible? Perhaps, but did you know that out beyond the orbit of Jupiter there is a body that at times presents the appearance of a sharply defined disk corresponding to a planet about the size of Mercury or Mars? Moreover this body moves in a path that is nearly circular. You might follow this body for weeks without noticing anything about it to distinguish it from one of the terrestrial planets. This body is one of the most peculiar in the solar system. It seems to be a sort of connecting link between comets and asteroids. In fact, it might be described as an asteroidal comet or a cometary asteroid, whichever name you prefer. Sometimes it is surrounded by a halo like a comet and at other times it shows simply a disk like a planet. And nobody knows when it is going to change from one to the other. This body was discovered on November #, #, by Schwassmann and Wachmann at Bergedorf, Germany. Apparently they picked it up accidentally on a photograph taken for some other purpose as so frequently happens in astronomy. On the discovery plate the body appeared as a starlike nucleus surrounded by a faint coma, the whole being of about magnitude #. A sixth magnitude star is the faintest you can see with your unaided eye. The faintest star you can photograph with the #-inch telescope is magnitude #. Because of the coma the body was called a comet and in the course of time acquired several aliases. For example, you will find it referred to as Comet Schwassmann-Wachmann I, Comet j #, and Comet # II. Suppose that we refer to it as # II for short. # II Troubled Astronomers Right from the start # II began giving astronomers trouble. When a new body is discovered computers try to determine its orbit as quickly as possible before it slips away and is lost again. Although this first orbit is only a rough approximation to the true one yet it is good enough to keep the body in sight for a couple of weeks or so. By that time astronomers will have gotten more observations which will enable a better orbit to be determined. Most comets move in orbits so elongated that they are nearly parabolas. It is standard practice merefore when a comet is discovered to assume that the orbit is a parabola and to issue predictions on that basis, the reason being that a parabolic orbit can be computed very quickly. And so computers went to work on # II assuming that here was another ordinary little comet moving in a nearly parabolic path. But when they began to compare notes they found that their orbits differed so widely that something must be radically wrong. They soon realized that the comet had fooled them completely. Instead of moving in an elongated cigar-shaped path it seemed to move in one that is nearly a circle. Later work has shown this view to be correct. Comet # II moves in a path that is less elongated than that of Mercury or Pluto. It takes # years to make a complete circuit around the sun, never coming nearand never receding farther than Since # II moves in a nearly circular path at such a great distance from the sun we should expect it to be the most stable and inert of comets. On the contrary, only a few months after discovery it began showing variations in brightness, not radical but enough to puzzle astronomers. As time went on more spectacular changes were observed that could not be passed off as errors of observation. It became apparent that here was a little body out in the cold of space that for no reason could change in brightness by a hundred fold within a space of less than a fortnight. The biggest flareup on record occurred in January #. According to Dr. G. Van Biesbroeck, who made the observations with the #inch reflector of the Yerkes Observatory on the night of January #, the comet showed a star-like nucleus from which emanated a broad fanshaped tail. On the next night it looked about the same but was somewhat fainter being about magnitude #. But when he examined the comet on January # he was astonished to find that it had jumped to magnitude #, appearing as a sharp nucleus surrounded by a coma. The following night it was magnitude # and the coma had doubled in extent. Then it began to grow fainter and by February # had dropped to magnitude # again. Brighter Than Halley's Comet The faintest that # II has ever been reported is about magnitude #. Thus what should be the most sluggish of all comets has varied through a range of nine magnitudes corresponding to a change in brightness of # times! Halley's comet is popularly regarded as a Celestial giant. Yet Halley's comet could not be seen even in the most powerful telescope at the distance of # II. Before we can attempt to explain changes of this kind we must first ask ourselves What is a comet? and What makes it shine? Astronomers are agreed that the nucleus of a comet consists of a loose collection of meteorites ranging in size from mere grains of sand up to boulders perhaps as big as a house or larger. As a comet nears the sun these particles become heated and begin to give oflf occluded gases, in somewhat the same way that carbon dioxide gas begins to boil out of a bottle of soda water when it is warmed. A comet will generally begin to show signs of life about the time it reaches the orbit of Mars. First a tail develops, then the nucleus appears and starts sending out jets, halos, and emission fans. Sometimes a comet gets so active it may split in two. A comet glows with a soft ghostly radiance quite different from the appearance we should expect if shown merely by reflected sunlight. What is the source of its luminosity? We now believe that comets shine for essentially the same reason that certain billboards gleam so brightly -- fluorescence. Ultra-violet light or ordinary sunlight shining upon certain chemicals will make them emit a glow usually of longer wave-length than the light they have absorbed. Similarly, the gases of a comet absorb light from the sun and then emit it agciin. For example, a carbon molecule in a comet absorbs a blue ray from sunlight and then emits the same blue ray into space. Thus the spectrum of a comet shows a series of bright bands due to the light emitted by different molecules that have been excited to luminosity by the sun. This theory has been quite successful in accounting for the brightness of comets. But when we try to apply it to # II we immediately run into difficulties. In the first place, it is hard to see how the sun could be very effective in boiling gases out of material that is always frozen solid. The highest temperature which the material could possibly have is about# F, and it is almost certainly much lower than this. It is particularly hard to see how there could be sudden violent emission of gas. Remember, too, that this body has such a small mass that it could not retain an atmosphere even if it were presented with one. Any gases issuing from it will be immediately lost. For the sake of argument, however, we will assume that there is enough gas around # II to form a fairly respectable halo. No Relation to Sun's Brightness We have seen that a comet shines by action of the sunlight falling upon it. Therefore, it seems reasonable to suppose that the sudden changes in brightness originate -- not in the comet -- but in the sun. Over large sunspots there often gas called flares believed to be rich in ultra-violet light. A flare may blaze to maximum brightness in twenty minutes and then gradually fade away in the course of an hour. At first glance these flares seem to be exactly what we need to account for the sudden changes in luminosity of the comet. So far, however, we have not been able to connect a single change in # II with a single change of any kind upon the sun. This does not necessarily mean that no such relationship exists. But it does mean that it has not as yet been proven. The trouble has been that when something extraordinary happened to the comet nobody was watching the sun and vice versa. It began to shape up as one of those cooperative problems calling for a combined effort by observers all around the world. Since # the sun has been kept under watch for nearly twenty-four hours a day. But observations of # II are fragmentary in character, two observers having done about # per cent of the work. It is significant to note, however, that the record flareup of January # occurred when the largest sunspot ever recorded was on the side of the sun turned toward the comet. As seen from the comet, this sunspot would have come into view on January #, passed across the disk, and vanished on February #. As we have seen. Van Biesbroeck reported the comet faint early in January but was amazed to find it around magnitude # on January #, #, and #. Then it was faint again by February #. Thus the comet was brightest when the greatest spot ever known was crossing the sun's disk as seen from the comet. Whether this was merely a coincidence nobody knows. Astronomers have always felt that they could explain almost anything in the sky if only they can get a look at its spectrum. Hence the feeling has prevailed that if they could once catch # II with the spectrograph when it was brit they might be able to clear up the mystery. About ten years ago such an opportunity occurred. On September #, #, a telegram went out from Harvard stating: "Comet # II suddenly brighter, spectra desirable." Observed from Lick Two photographs of the comet's spectrum were obtained with the #-inch Crossley reflector at the Lick Observatory. At that time the the sun and in the telescope resembled a #th magnitude nebulous star without a tail. The photographs showed nothing. Or nothing that was of much help in deciding what was happening on the comet. There were no bright lines and bands such as had been expected. Only the spectrum of reflected sunlight such as we would get from a cold body like the moon. Instead of clearing up the mystery the spectrograms had only served to deepen it. Comets and asteroids are generally regarded as two distinct types of bodies. Actually, however, the difference between them is not nearly so well marked as is popularly supposed. This is the reason why a newly discovered body is called an "object." Astronomers can't be sure how to classify it until they have had a chance to study it for awhile. There have been several asteroids reported surrounded by nebuSchroeter reported nebulosity around both Ceres and Pallas. Herschel also reported nebulosity around Juno but was unable to see any around Vesta. It is easy to discredit these old observations as being due to imperfections in the telescopes. Yet in # an experienced observer, J. Comas Sola, reported # Oceana and # Elsa surrounded by nebulosity, and # Jocasta has twice been photographed with a halo. Thus after a quarter of a century of observation the sudden outbursts of light emitted by Comet # II are still a mystery. The explanation most favored by astronomers is flares of ultra-violet radiation from the sun, but as we have seen this theory has encountered diflSculties. But it seems practically impossible to think of anything else. A series of explosions due to pentup radioactivity is scarcely worthy of serious consideration. It is tempting to let one's imagination roam and assume that # II is being used as a celestial proving ground for some new explosive or disintegrator ray. Perhaps this will serve as a working hypothesis until we can make the trip in a spaceship and find out the real reason. Let There Be Light ( Continued from page #) wick to soak, and held it out to Blackie. He lit the wick from his stick. "It bums real good, Blackie," the girl said, wrinkling her nose against the first oily smoke. "Gee, you're smart to catch one the first day out." "Tell them other dames to watch how they use it!" he warned. "This oughta last a month or more when we get him all emptied." He blew out the dying flame on the stick and dropped the charred wood thoughtfully to the floor. "Naw, I ain't so smart," he admitted, "or I'd figure a way to make one of them work the garden for us. Maybe someday -- but this kind won't do nothin' but fix that goddam road, an' what good's that to anybody?" His woman moved the burning lamp carefully to the center of the table. "Anyway, it's gonna be better'n last winter," she said. "We'll have lights now." I I Sir Editor: The best thing about your magazine is its limitless possibilities. Let me explain; Future can publish nothing but stories in the future; Galaxy requires a space setting; Space Science Fiction and Rocket Stories are strictly limited. All those need a certain type of story. If the public loses interest in that type of story -- blooey goes the magazine... Right now science fiction is going through a big boom, but just as sure as it is on top now it will go under. Look at all the new magazines around now -- only a continued and growing interest in the field can support them (And since we're dealing with cycles we must accept the fact that at one point the thing will reach its peak and then descend). After the field stops growing the magazines that survive and continue will be those that have two qualities : ( I ) good stories and (#) a policy that can adapt to the changing needs of the field. IP's title can symbolize any field of imaginative fiction. At this point it looks like I'm going to grow old along with IF. Best wishes for continued success, -- Dave Hammond Runnemede, N. J. We're striving for both of them, Dave -- in addition to making IF physically attractive, too. And thanks for sticking with us. We'll try to make it worth your while.    Dear Sir: Congratulations on a second fine effort in the May issue of IF magazine. In the short space of two issues, IF has attained heights seldom reached by other magazines even after years of issue. Jungle in the Sky, as far as plot went, was an exceptionally fine attempt and a pretty good piece of writing. Characterization, however, was not good, but the rest of the story made up for this. I found both Welcome, Martians! and The Beast remarkably like a couple of stories Ray Bradbury published a little while ago. The former had a definitely unique twist, but the latter, although interesting, was definitely commonplace. The rest of the stories were definitely up to par, as were the special features. I really think that you should do all you could in exposing and denouncing that absurdity known as the Shaver Mystery. But my joy in the reading of your magazine was dashed to earth when I turned to the letter column. Here my worst fears were realized. I noticed with a good deal of chagrin that someone asked for fanzine revues. Why not have revues of revues of fanzines and really drive the fen (sic) wild? Miss Steiner was right concerning the introduction of new authors. But it so often turns out that many of the new authors should have stuck to being fans. But, by all means, we do need some new faces in the. science fiction firmament. After agreeing with Miss Steiner, my eyes swept down to the next letter, and choked back a feeling of nausea. Here it was, another choice example of the inane drivel which one finds in the poorly printed pages of our cheapest pulp magazines. We have all the earmarks. Teen age slang like "terrif". Reference to stories as "cute". (Or dreamy, groovy, reety-vouty, mellow, or what have you?) I'd like to repeat, please try to keep stuff like this out of your publication. A little slang is fine, but please try to draw the line at utter infantilism. Congratulation again on a fine science fiction publication. -- Ben Jacopetti San Francisco, Calif.    Dear Mr. Fairman: The May issue of IF was even better than the first one and that's pretty good. You were right about that cover, it is good. The story Jungle in the Sky is even better if possible. And I'm not partial to anyone named Milton. I, myself, would like more longer stories, but you can't please everyone... I like the location of your contents page, it is right where it should be. Why don't you put in the number of words after each title, it would add to the enjoyment of your mag. But as it is, it's at the top of my stf reading list. -- Milton L. Olsen Corvallis, Ore. And we're going to try to keep it there!    Dear Ed: I have just finished reading May's ish of IF, and I want to express my opinion. I traded IF from a friend of mine and immediately after reading it, I placed IF as the #rd favorite on my sf mag list. Joiner is one of my favorites and I also liked the cover, that, thank heaven, is different from most of sf mags. Story ratings : #. Jungle in the Sky #. Welcome, Martians! #. Resurrection Seven #. It Takes a Thief #. Dreamer's World #. Infinity's Child #. The Beast #. The Revealing Pattern I would like to see this in print, but I think I won't. -- George Viksnins Philadelphia, Pa. Dear Ed: While the quality, of the May issue was as high as that of the March one I didn't enjoy it as much. I'm afraid the stories were rather stereotyped in the boy-girl angle. However, they made good reading and it is true that you can't please everybody. I would like to make one point clear. Ganymede is not the largest moon in the Solar System as Milton Lesser would have us believe in Jungle in the Sky. Saturn's moon Titan is the largest and it is also the only moon capable of holding an atmosphere. No hard feelings? In my humble opinion Infinity's Child was the top story this month. It presented a very interesting theory .and it seems to me that if so many people make references to the same thing as was showed in this story then there must be some truth in it... At first Welcome, Martians! seemed to be almost exactly like Ray Bradbury's They Landed on Mars but once I got into it the similarity disappeared. What a thing to have happen to you after just completing a # mile trip. A simple case of mistaken identity! This was another I liked. The Beast I didn't quite understand. Why wouldn't or couldn't the men shoot at the creature? It seems to me that they must have been hypnotized by said entity. Otherwise why wouldn't anyone kill something they knew was deadly whether it took the form of someone close to you or not. If you knew that it was only an illusion then what could hold you back? By now this letter is too long to even stand a chance of being printed but as long as I've had my say I'm satisfied. -- Pat Scholz Brooklyn, N. Y.    Dear Editor: You came up with some good stories in the May issue of IF. Congratulations to Milton Lesser for the excellent job he did in writing' Jungle in the Sky. This was by far the best story in the issue. Welcome, Martians! and It Takes a Thief were also well done. The only stories that I didn't like in the May issue were Infinity's Child and Dreamer's World. I enjoyed your personality sketch on Ray Palmer very much. Keep this a regular featifre in IF. Maybe you will turn monthly soon? -- Bob Goodney Ashland, Wis. descending onto a plonet without atmosphere -- no sound, no odors, no rain, no snow; never a cloud in the sky, never a breeze. Night and day the heavens ore black, end each day, according to earth standards, is a month long. In the velvety black heavens, the sun is a steady, bright, colorless light, end the earth is a huge globe, with oceans and continents easily definable. Hayden Planetarium such foscinating features os Adventures in Words, Your Favorite Quiz, Great Names You Should Know and other delightful broin teasers... For this wonderful excursion into puzzle pleosure, just osk your nearest news dealer. It's only # cents -- at all newsstondsl I -- #  TW! I   T Antciican Museum of Natural History Planetarium as one of several astronomical catastrophies that could some day end life on the Earth, here is an artist's conception of what would happen to us under expanding energy of the Sun. For expiring energy of the Sun, see inside back cover. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Anton Kurka, suggesting The Ultimate Re-sowing of the Human Race -- # AD IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publlshine Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright #. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as cond Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues: elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are Bctioo; any similarity to actual persons is coincidentaf. Not responsible for tmsoHcited art work or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue on sale January #th The year # seems to be open season on that question. It's been the subject of articles in newspapers and magazines; whole volumes have been devoted to it; it has been discussed over the radio and on your television screen. Many of the leading scientists in America have had a whack at it. The pretty solid concensus is that we will have space travel, but as to when there seems to be a difference of opinion. Some authorities put it at ten years, others at fifteen or twenty, and still others say longer. The chances are that it will be longer -- much longer. Probably not before the year #. Why? Because there are too many elements involved other than the purely physical scientific evolvement of ways and means. First, let's consider the "tractor force" which has moved mankind through the ages, that which will move him on to another planet: that of dire physical necessity, or the fundamental law of survival. plored -- because he had to live. That's basic. Since the beginning of time, Man, singly at first and later in groups or nations, has ventured forth for the sustenance of life -- food, clothing, raw materials, commercial intercourse, economic security -- and he has accomplished it through free exploration or war. As Man progressed, by supplying himself with the basic requirements of life, he gave birth to thought -- spiritual, cultural, philosophical, scientific, political, economical -- which gave to the satisfaction of his animal hungers the veneer called civilization. Today Mankind has multiplied and explored and warred until it populates, in an alleged civilized state of mind, practically every known part of Earth -- at least those parts which are habitable -- eating off it, living off it, thinking off it and deriving varying degrees of comfort therefrom. And despite the plundered condition of that Earth habitable miles, and still enough wherewithal! to sustain the human race for at least another century. So, the all-compelling, motivating, driving force to push Man off the Earth, that of animal survival, is lacking -- at least for the present. why we can't expect space travel before # AD is universal political attitude. There's too much distrust, corruption, petty jealousy, narrow-mindedness and lack of unity in national intercourse today. Interspace travel is the Invasion of one planet by another, and there's got to be at least a fundamental unity between the peoples of the earth if they are going to invade other worlds. It's too big a job for one guy to accomplish by himself in a dark room in his basement. Scientific experiments with rockets reaching toward space -- propulsion, meteorological, survival -- have been pressed for military purposes. Every major nation has its own rocket or guided missile project working night and day to get the jump on its fellow nations. The United States is the best equipped nation in the world to launch a space project, but the moment our enemies hear about it they're going to do everything in their power to knock it down. If our enemies got the jump, the United States would jolly well have to do the same thing. Perhaps space travel will be born during the next war -- much as our rockets, jet propulsion and electronic discoveries came out of the Second World War. Perhaps the Third World War will be one to determine which nation Is to be the first to enter space. When that great, great war is over, the victor, if there be such, will be the ruler of Earth ; there will be no one to contest its right to the skies; and with what is learned and what is left, and with the cooperation of all, it can build ships to explore space and seek another planet. By that time it is very possible tliat such will be necessary -- Earth having burned up the essentials of life. money. It has been estimated that the cost to establish space transportation, with outer planet contact, right -- but how many of these astronomical denominations? The U. S. government is already # fully establish space travel or planetary contact on any permanent basis will probably cost as much as the entire national budget for a year -- how much is it running Take that awesome mountain of cabbage and add to it the extra cost of the super-secrecy required today, the calculated costs of sabotage, the cost of another war -- and there you have it. hardly before there is a basic necessity, a reasonable degree of world unity and a fabulous amount of money to back up the sweat and genius of science. Let's say, pretty soon. Perhaps fifty or sixty years. And that's a mighty short time away, almost infinitesimal, when milestone in the whole history of mankind. -- jlqTim # 'p j r dent of the Western Federation of Autonomous States, had made a number of campaign promises that nobody really expected him to fulfill, for after all, the campaign and the election were only ceremonies, and the President -- who had no real name of his own -- had been trained for the executive post since birth. He had been elected by a popular vote of # to #, the dissenters casting their negative by announcing that, for the sake of national unity, they refused to participate in any civilized activities during the President's term, whereupon they were admitted (volimtarily) to the camp for conscientious objectors. But now, two weeks after his inauguration, he seemed ready to make good the first and perhaps most difficult promise of the lot: to confer by televiewphone with Ivan Ivanovitch the Ninth, the Peoplesfriend and Vicar of the Asian Proletarian League. The President apparently meant to keep to himself the secret of his success in the difficult task of arranging the interview in spite of the lack of any diplomatic contact between the nations, in spite of the Hell Wall, and the interference stations which made even radio communication impossible between the two halves of the globe. Someone had sugfloated a note to Ivan IX in a bottle, and the suggestion, though ludicrous, seemed not at all unlikely. with himself as he sat with his staff of Primary Stand-ins in the study of his presidential palace. His face, of course, was invisible behind 'the golden mask of the official helmet, the mask of tragedy with its expression of pathos symbolizing the selfimmolation of public service -- as well as protecting the President's own personal visage from public view, and hence from assassination in unmasked private life, for not only was he publicly nameless, but also publicly faceless and publicly unknown as an individual. But despite the invisibility of his expression, his contentment became apparent by a certain briskness of gesticulation and a certain smugness in his voice as he spoke to the nine Stand-ins who were also bodyguards, council-members, and advisors to the chief executive. "Think of it, men," he sighed happily in his smooth tenor, slightly muffled by the mask. "Communication with the East -- after forty years of the Big Silence. A great moment in history, perhaps the greatest since the last peace-effort." The nine men nodded dutifully. The President looked around at them and chuckled. " 'Peace-effort'," he echoed, spitting the words out distinctly as if they were a pair of phonetic specimens. "Do you remember what it used to be called -- in the middle of the last century?" A brief silence, then a Stand-in frowned thoughtfully. "Called it 'war', didn't they, John?" "Precisely." The golden helmet nodded crisply. " 'War' -- and now 'peace-effort. Our semantics has progressed. Our present 'securityprobe' was once called 'lynch. 'Social-security once meant a limited insurance plan, not connoting euthanasia and sterilization for the ellie-moes. And that word 'elliemoe' -- once eleemosynary -- was once applied to institutions that took care of the handicapped." He waited for the burst of laughter to subside. A Stand-in, still chuckling, spoke up. "It's our institutions that have evolved, John." "True enough," the President agreed. "But as they changed, most of them kept their own names. Like 'the Presidency. It used to be rabble-chosen, as our ceremonies imply. Then the Qualifications Amendment that limited it to the psychologically fit. And then the Education Amendment prescribed other qualifying rules. And the Genetic Amendment, and the Selection Amendment, and finally the seclusion and depersonalization. Until it gradually got out of the rabble's hands, except symbolically." He paused. "Still, it's good to keep the old names. As long as the names don't change, the rabble is happy, and say, 'We have preserved the Pan-American way of life'." "While the rabble is really impotent," added a Stand-in. "Don't say that!" John Smith quickly erect on the self-conforming couch. "And if you believe it, you're a fool." His voice went sardonic. "Why don't you try abolishing me and find out?" "Sorry, Jcn. I didn't mean -- " T he president stood up and paced slowly toward the window where he stood gazing between the breeze-stirred drapes at the sunswept city of Acapulco and at the breakers rolling toward the distant beach. "No, my power is of the rabble," he confessed, "and I am their friend." He turned to look at them and laugh. "Should I build my pK)wer on men like you? Or the Secondary Stand-ins? Baa! For all your securities, you are still stooges. Of the rabble. Do you obey me because I control military force? Or because I control rabble? The latter I think. For despite precautions, military forces can be corrupted. Rabble cannot. They rule you through me, and I rule you through them. And I am their servant because I have to be. No tyrant can survive by oppression." A gloomy hush followed his words. It was still fourteen minutes before time for the televiewphone contact with Ivan Ivanovitch IX. The President turned back to the "window". He stared "outside" until he grew tired of the view. He pressed a button on the wall. The window went black. He pressed another button, which brought another view: Pike's Peak at sunset. As the sky gathered gray twilight, he twisted a dial and ran the sun back up again. The palace was built two hundred feet underground, and the study was a safe with walls of eight-inch steel. It lent a certain air of security. The historic moment was approaching. The Stand-ins seemed nervous. What changes had occurred behind the Hell Wall, what new developments in science, what political mutations? Only rumors came from beyond the Wall, since the last big peace-effort which had ended in stalemate and total isolation. The intelligence service did the best that it could, but the picture was fuzzy and incomplete. There was still "communism", but the word's meaning had apparently changed. It was said that the third Ivan had been a crafty opportunist but also a wise man who, although he did nothing to abolish absolutism, effected a bloody reformation in which the hair-splitting Marxist dogmatics had been purged. He appointed the most pragmatic men he could find to succeed them, and set the whole continental regime on the road to a harsh but practical utilitarian civilization. A slogan had leaked across the Wall recently: "There is no God but a Practical Man; there is no Law but a Best Solution," and it seemed to affirm that the third Ivan's influence had continued after his passing -- although the slogan itself was a dogma. And it might mean something quite nonliteral to the people who spoke it. The rabble of the West were still stirred to deep emotion by a thing that began, "When in the course of human events -- " and they saw nothing incongruous about Tertiary Stand-ins who quoted it in the name of the Federation's rule. But the unknown factor that disturbed the President most was not the present Asian political or economic situation, but rather, the state of scientific development, particularly as it applied to military matters. The forty years of noncommunication had not been spent in military stasis, at least not for the West. Sixty percent of the federal budget was still being spent for defense. Powerful new weapons were still being developed, and old ones pronounced obsolete. The seventh John Smith had even conspired to have a conspiracy against himself in Argentina, with resulting civil war, so that the weapons could be tested under actual battle conditions -- for the region had been overpopulated anyway. The results had been comforting -- but John the Sixteenth wanted to know more about what the enemy was doing. really only a globe-encircling belt of booby-trapped land and ocean, guarded from both sides -- had its political advantages, of course. The mysterious doings of the enemy, real and imagined, were a constant and suspenseful threat that made it easy for the Smiths to keep the rabble in hand. But for all the present Smith knew, the flireat might very well be real. He had to find out. It would also be a popular triumph he could toss to the rabble, bolstering his position with them, and thereby securing his hold on the Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Stdnd-ins, who were becoming a little too presumptious of late. He had a plan in mind, vague, tentative, and subject to constant revision to suit events as they might begin to occur. He kept the plan's goal to himself, knowing that the Stand-ins would call it insane, dangerous, impossible. "John! We're picking up their station!" a Stand-in called. "It's a minute before time!" He left the window and walked calmly to the couch before the televiewphone, whose screen had come alive with the kaleidoscope patterns of the interference-station which sprang to life as soon as an enemy station tried to broadcast. "Have the fools cut that scatterstation!" he barked angrily. A Stand-in grabbed at a microphone, but before he made the call the interference stopped -- a few seconds before the appointed time. The screen revealed an empty desk and a wall behind, with a flag of the Asian League. No one was in the picture, which was slightly blurred by several relay stations. which had been set up on short notice for this one broadcast. A wall-clock peeped the hour in a childish voice; "Sixteen o'clock, Thirdday, Smithweek, also Accident-Prevention Week and ProbeSubversives Week; Happy #! Peep!" A man walked into the picture and sat down, facing John Smith eralls, and wearing a red rubber or plastic helmet-mask. The mask was the face of the first Soviet dictator, dead over a century ago. John's scalp bristled slightly beneath his own golden headdress. He tried to relax. The room was hushed. The opposing leaders stared at each other without speaking. Historic moment! Ivan Ivanovitch slowly lifted his hand and waved it in greeting. John Smith returned the gesture, then summoned courage to speak first. "You have translators at hand?" "I need none," the red mask growled in the Western tongue. "You are unable to speak my tongue. We shall speak yours." The President started. How could the Red know that he did not speak the RussoAsian dialect? "Very well." The President reached for a prepared text and began to read. "I requested this conference in the hope of establishing some form of contact between our peoples, through their duly constituted executive authorities. I hope that we can agree on a series of conferences, aimed eventually at a lessening of the tension between us. I do not propose that we alter our respective positions, nor to change our physical isolation from one another, except in the field of highlevel diplomacy and..." "Why?" grunted the Asian chieftain. gutteral monosyllable had been toneless and disinterested. The Red was going to draw him out, apparently. Very well, he would be frank -- for a time. "The answer should be evident, Peoplesfriend. I presume that your government spends a respectable sum for armaments. My government does likewise. The eventual aim should be economy..." "Is this a disarmament proposal?" The fellow was blunt. Smith cleared his throat. "Not at the present time, Peoplesfriend. I hoped that eventually we might be able to establish a mutual trust so that to some extent we could lessen the burden..." "Stop talking Achesonian, President. What do you want?" The President went rigid. "Very well," he said sarcastically, "I propose that we reduce military expenses by blowing the planet in half. The halves can circle each other as satellite twins, and we'll have achieved perfect isolation. It would seem more economical than the present course." He apparently had sized-up the Peoplesfriend correctly. The man threw back his masked head and laughed uproariously. "The Solomon solution!... ha ha!... Slice the baby in half!" the Stalin-mask chuckled. Then he paused to grow sober. "Too bad we can't do it, isn't it?" Diplomacy was dead, and he had made a mistake in trying to be polite. Diplomats were dead, and the art forgotten. Poker-game protocol had to apply here, and it was really the only sensible way: for two opponents to try to cheat each other honestly and jovially. He was glad the Soviet Worker's Vicar had not responded to his first politeness. "Anything else. Smith?" "We can discuss agenda later. What about the continued conferences?" "Suits me. I have nothing to lose. I am in a position to destroy you anyway, a position I have occupied for several years. I have not cared to do so, since you made no overt moves against us." A brief silence. Bluff? Smith wondered. Certainly bluff. On the other hand, it would be interesting to see how far Ivan would brag. "I gather your atomic research has made rapid strides, for you to make such a boast," Smith ventured. "Not at all. In fact, my predecessor had it curtailed and limited to industrial applications. Our weapons program has become uni-directional, and extremely inexpensive. I'll tell you about it sometime." Smith's flesh crawled. Something was wrong here. The Asian leader was too much at his ease. His words meant nothing, of course. It had to be lying noise; it could be nothing else. A meeting such as this was not meant to communicate truth, but to discern an opponent's attitude and to try to hide one's own. "Let it suffice to say," the Red leader went on, "that we know more about you than you know about us. Our system has changed. A century ago, our continent suffered a blight of dogmatism and senseless butchery such as the world had never seen. Obviously, such conditions cannot endure. They did not. There was strong reaction and revolution within the framework of the old system. We have achieved a workable technological aristocratism, based on an empirical approach to problems. We realize that the final power is in the hands of the people -- and I use that archaic word in preference to your 'rabble' -- " "Are you trying to convert me to something?" John Smith growled acidly. "Not at all. I'm telling you our position." He paused for a moment, then inserted his fingertips under the edge of the mask. "Here is probably the best way to tell you." The Red leader ripped off the mask, revealing an impassive Oriental face with deepset black eyes and a glowering frown. The President sucked in his breath. It was unthinkable, that a man should expose himself to... but then, that was what he was trying to prove wasn't it? He kicked a foot-switch to kill the microphone circuit, and spoke quickly to the Stand-ins, knowing that the Asian could not see his lips move behind the golden mask. "Is Security Section guarding against spy circuits?" "Yes, John." "Then quick, get out of the room, all of you! Join the Secondaries." "But John, it'll leave you fingered! If nine of us leave, they'll know that the remaining one is -- " "Get on your masks and get out! I'm going to take mine off." "But John -- !" "Move, Subversive!" "You don't need to curse," the Stand-in muttered. The, nine men, out of the camera's field, donned golden helmets identical to Smith's, whistled six notes to the audio-combination, then slipped out the thick steel door as it clicked and came open. The Red was jeering at him quietly. "Afraid to take off your mask. President? The rabble? Or your self-appointed Stand-ins? Which frightens you, President -- " John Smith plucked at a latch under his chin, and the golden headdress came apart down the sides. He lifted it off and laid it casually aside, revealing a hard, blocky face, slightly in need of a shave, with cool blue eyes and blond brows. His hair was graying slightly at the temples, with a fortyish hairline. T he red nodded. "Greetings, human. I doubted that you would." "Why not?" growled Smith. "Because you fear your Standins, as appointees, not subject to your 'rabble'. Our ruling clique selects its own members, hut they are subject to popular approval or recall by referendum. I fear nothing from them." "Let's not compare our domestic forms, Peoplesfriend." "I wanted to point out," the Asian continued calmly, "tliat your system slipped into what it is without realizing it. A bad was allowed to grow worse. We, however were reacting against unreasonableness and stupidity within our own system. In the year #I -- " "I am aware of your hi.story before the Big Silence. May we discuss pertinent matters -- ?" The Asian stared at him sharply. The frown grew deeper. The hlack eyes looked haughty. "If you really want to discuss something, John Smith, suppose we arrange a personal meeting in a non-walled, neutral region? Say, Antarctica?" to dealing without a mask, let surprise fill his face before he caught himself. The Asian chuckled but said nothing. The President studied the border of the teleview screen for a moment. "I shall have to consider your proposal," he said dully. The Peoplesfriend nodded curtly, then suggested a time for the next interview. Smith revised it ahead to gain more time, and agreement was reached. The screen went blank ; the interview was at an end. The Sixteenth Smith took a slow, worried breath, then slowly donned the mask of oflRce again. He summoned the nine Primaries immediately. "That was dangerous, John," one of them warned him as they entered. "You may regret it. They knew you were in here alone. We're not all identical from the neckdown you know. When we come out, they might compare -- " He cut the man off with a curt gesture. "No time. We're in a bad situation. Maybe worse than I guess." He began pacing the floor and staring down at the metallifiber mg as he spoke. "He knows more about us than he should. It took me awhile to realize that he's speaking our latest language variations. A language changes idiom in forty years, and slang. He's got the latest phrases. 'Greetings, human' is one, like a rabbleman says when somebody softens up." "Spies?" "Maybe a whole network. I don't see how they could get them through the Wall, but -- maybe it's not so hard. Antarctic's open, as he pointed out." "What can we do about it, John? Smith stopped pacing, popped his knuckles hard, stared at them. "Assemble Congress. Securityprobe. It's the only answer. Let the 'Rabble's Parliament' mn their own inquisition. They were always good at purging themselves. Start a big spy-scare, and keep it in the channels. I'll lead with a message to the rabble." He paused, the tragedy mask gaping at them. "You won't like this, but I'm having the Standins probed too. The Presidency is not immune." A muttering of indignation. Some of them went white. No one protested however. "No witch-hunt in this group, however," he assured them. "I'll veto anything that looks unfair for the Primaries, but-" He paused and rang the word again. " -- but -- there will be no leniency tolerated from here on down, if Congress thinks it's found a spy, it can execute him on the spot -- and I won't lift a finger. This has got to be rooted out and burned." He began to pace again. He began barking crisp orders for specific details of the probe, or rather, for the campaign that would start the probe. The rabble were better at witch-hunts than a government was. Congress had not been assembled for fifteen years, since there had been nothing suspicious to investigate, but once it was called to duty, heads would roll -- some of them literally. If some innocent people were hurt, the rabble could only blame themselves, for their own enthusiasm in ruthlessly searching out the underground enemy. Smith couldn't worry about that. If an Asian spy-system were operating in the continent, it had to be crushed quickly. propaganda and string-pulling plans for them, he turned to the other matter -- the Red leader's boast of ability to conquer the West. "It's probably foolish talk, but we don't know their present psychology. Double production on our most impressive weapons. Give the artificial-satellite program all the money it wants, and get them moving on it. I want a missile-launching site in space before the end of the year. Pay particular attention to depopulation weapons for use against Industrial areas. We may have to strike in a hurry. We've been fools -- coasting this way, feeling secure behind the Wall." "You're not contemplating another peace-effort, John?" gasped an elderly Stand-in. "I'm contemplating survival!" the leader snapped. "I don't know that we're in serious danger, but if it takes a peace-effort to make sure, then we'll start one. So fast it'll knock out their industry before they know we've hit them." He stood frozen for a moment, the mask lifted proudly erect. "By Ike, I love the West! And it's not going to suffer any creeping eruption while I'm at its head!" When the President had finished and was ready to leave, the others started donning their masks again. "Just a minute," he grunted. "Number Six." One of the men, about the President's size and build, looked up quickly. "Yes, John?" "Your cloak is stained at the left shoulder. Grease?" Six inspected it curiously, then nodded. "I was Inspecting a machine shop, and -- " "Never mind. Trade cloaks with me." "Why, if -- " Six stopped. His face lost color. "But the others -- might have -- " "Precisely." Six unclasped it slowly and handed it to the Sixteenth Smith, accepting the President's in return. His face was set in rigid lines, but he made no further protest. Masked and prepared, a Standin whistled a tune to the door, which had changed its combination since the last time. The tumblers clicked, and they walked out into a large auditorium containing two himdred Secondary Stand-ins, all wearing the official mask. If a Secondary ever wanted to assassinate the President, one shot would give him a single chance in ten as they filed through the door. "Mill about!" bellowed a Sergeant-at-Arms, and the two hundred began wandering among themselves in the big room, a queer porridge, stirred clumsily but violently. The Primaries and the President lost themselves in the throng. For ten minutes the room milled and circulated. "Unmask!" bellowed the crier. The two hundred and ten promptly removed their helmets and placed them on the floor. The President was unmasked and unknown -- unmarked except by a certain physical peculiarity that could be checked only by a physician, in case the authenticity of the presidential person was challenged, as it frequently was. Then the Secondaries went out to lose themselves in a larger throng of Tertiaries, and the group split randomly to take the various underground highways to their homes. The President entered his house in the suburbs of Dia City, hugged the children, and kissed his wife. John Smith was profoundly disturbed. During the years of the Big Silence, a feeling of uneasy security had evolved. The Federation had been in isolation too long, and the East had become a mysterious unknown. The Presidency had oscillated between suspicious unease and smug confidence, depending perhaps upon the personality of the particular president more than anything else. The mysteriousness of the foe had been used politically to good advantage by every president selected to office, and the Sixteenth Smith had intended to so use it. But now he vaguely regretted it. T he tenure of office was still four years, and he could not help feeling that if he had maintained the intercontinental silence, he would not have had to worry about the spy-matter. If the hemisphere had been infiltrated, the subversive work had not begun yesterday. It had probably been going on for years, during several administrations, and the plans of the East, if any, would perhaps not come to a climax for several more years. He felt himself in the position of a man who suffered no pain as yet, but learned that he had an incurable disease. Why did he have to find out? But now that the danger was apparent, he had to go ahead and fight it instead of allowing it to pass on to the next John Smith. He made a stirring speech lo Congress when it convened. The cowled figures of the people's representatives sat like gloomy gray shadows in the tiers of seats around the great amphitheatre under the night sky; the symbolic torches threw fluttering black shadows among their ranks. The sight always made him shiver. Their cowls and robes had been affected during the last great peace-effort, at which time they had been impregnated with lead to protect against bombradiation, but the garb of office had endured for ceremonial reasons. There was still a 'Senate and a House, the former acting chiefly as an investigating body, the latter serving a legislative function in accordance with the rabble-code, which no longer applied to the Executive, being chiefly concerned with matten of rabble morals and police-functions. Its duties could mostly be handled by mail and televiewphone voting, so that it seldom convened in the physical sense. President John quoted freely from the Declaration of Independence, the Gettysburg Address, the MacArthur Speech to Congress, and the immortal words of the first John Smith in his Shall We Submit? which began; "If thy brother the son of thy mother, or thy son, or daughters, or thy wife, or thy friend whom thou lovest, would persuade thee secretly, saying, 'Let us go and serve strange gods', neither let thy eyes spare him nor conceal him, but thou shalt presently put him to death!" The speech was televised to the rabble, and for that matter, one of the Stand-ins delivered the actual address to protect the President who was present on the platform among the ranks of Primaries and Secondaries, although not even these officials were aware of it. The address was honestly an emotional one, not bothering with any attempt at logical analysis. None was needed. Congress was always eager to investigate subversion. It was good political publicity, and about the only congressional activity that could command public attention and interest. The cheers were rousing and prolonged. When it was over, the Speaker and the President of the Senate both made brief addresses to set the machinery in motion. ceedings with deep satisfaction. But as time wore on, he began to wonder how many spies were truly being apprehended. Among the many thousands who were brought to justice, only sixty-nine actually confessed to espionage, and over half of them, upon being subjected to psychiatric examination, proved to be neurotic publicity-seekers who would have confessed to anything sufficiently dramatic. Twenty-seven of them were psychiatrically cleared, but even so, their stories broke down when questioned under hypnosis or hypnotic drugs, except for seven who, although constantly maintaining their guilt, could not substantiate one another's claims, nor furnish any evidence which might lead to ffie discovery of a well-organized espionage network. John Smith was baffled. He was particularly baffled by the disappearance of seventeen men in key positions, who, upon being mentioned as possible candidates for the probe, immediately vanished into thin air, leaving no trace. It seemed to Smith, upon reading the individual reports, that many of them would have been absolved before their cases got beyond the deputy level, so flimsy were the accusations made against them. But they had not waited to find out. Two were obviously guilty of something. One had murdered a deputy who came to question him, then fled in a private plane, last seen heading out to sea. He had apparently run out of fuel over the ocean and crashed. The second man, an ordnance officer at the proving ground, had spectacularly committed suicide by exploding an atomic artillery shell, vaporizing himself and certain key comrades including his superior officer. Here, the President felt, was something really ominous. The disappearances and the suicides spelled careful discipline and planning. Their records had been impeccable. The accusations seemed absurd. If they were agents, they had done nothing but sit in their positions and wait for an appointed time. The possibilities were frightening, but evidence was inconclusive and led nowhere. Nevertheless, the house-( leaning continued. On Fourthday of Traffic Safety Week, which was also Eat More Corn-Popsies Week, John Smith vitch IX again at the appointed time. Contrary to all traditions, he again ordered the Stand-ins -- temporarily eight in number, since Number Six had died mysteriously in the bathtub -- to leave the study so that he might unmask. Promptly at sixteen o'clock the Asian's face -- or rather his ceremonial mask -- came on the screen. But seeing the Westerner's square-cut visage smiling at him sourly,he promptly removed the covering to reveal his Oriental face. The exchange of greetings was curt. " I see by recent events," said Ivan, "that you are nervous on your throne. For the sake of your own people, let me warn you that we have no designs on your autonomy unless you become aggressive toward us. The real difficulty, as revealed by your purge, is that you feel insecure, and insecurity makes you unpredictable. I do not, of course, expect you to be trustworthy. But insecurity sometimes breeds inpulsiveness. If you are to strike out blindly, perhaps the talks had best be broken off." held his temper. The man's presumption was intolerable. Further, he knew about the probe, knowledge which could only come from espionage. "I have become aware," the President said firmly, "that you have managed to establish a spysystem on this continent. If you wish better relations, you will have the activity stop at once." "I don't know what you're talking about," said the Peoplesfriend with a bland smile. "I might point out however that at least forty of your spies are either killed while trying to cross the Wall, or are apprehended after they manage to enter my regime." "The accusation is too ridiculous to deny," Smith lied. "We have no desire to pry into your activities. We wish only to maintain the status quo." The exchange continued, charges and countercharges and denials. Neither side expected truth or honesty, and the game was as old as civilization. Neither expected to be believed, although the press of both nations would heatedly condemn the other's lack of good faith. The ethical side of the affair was for the rabble to consider, for only the rabble cared about such things. The real task was to ferret out the enemy's attitudes and intentions without revealing one's own. a little, and lost a little too. He had found many hints of subversive activity, but had betrayed his own lack of certainty by reacting so swiftly to it. Ivan IX, on the other hand, seemed too much at ease, too secure, and even impertinent. "At our last meeting," said the Asian, "I suggested a meeting between ourselves. Have you given thought to the matter?" "I have given it thought," said the President, "and will agree to the proposal provided you come to this country. The meeting will be held at my capitol." "Which you change at random intervals, I notice," purred Ivan with a hland smile. "For security reasons?" "You could only know that by espionage!" Smith snapped. "Your proposal of course is outrageous. The only sensible place for the meeting is in Singapore." "That is out of the question. I must insist on the capitol of my government as the only acceptable meeting-place. My government in contacting yours put itself in the position of extending an invitation, a position from which we could not depart without loss of dignity." "I suggest we delay the matter then," grunted the Peoplesfriend. "And talk about the agenda for such a meeting. What did you have in mind?" "I have already stated our general aims as being a reduction of armament expenses, beneficial to both sides. I think you agree?" "Not necessarily, since our budget is already rather low. However, make your specific proposals, and I shall consider them. Further economy, where not injurious to security, is always desirable." "I propose, then, that we discuss a method whereby agreement might be reached on a plan to divxilge the nature of our respective armaments, including number, nature, and purpose of each weaponclass, as a foundation for discussions relating to reductions." Smith waited for a flat "no" to the suggestion. The Asian leader apparently knew a great deal more about the West's armaments than Smith knew about the East. The Peoplesfriend had nothing to gain by revealing the military strength of his own hemisphere. But he paused, watching Smith with an expressionless stare. "I accept that for further consideration, at least," Ivan said at last. tion and suspicion. Suspicion won. "Of course there must be some method to assure that accurate figures are divulged." "That could probably be settled." Again the President was shocked. It was all too easy. Something was rotten about the whole thing. The Peoplesfriend agreed too readily to things that seemed to be to his disadvantage. The discussion continued for several hours, during which both men presented viewpoints and postponed agreement until a later meeting. "Stockpiles of fissionable material," said the President, "which could quickly be converted to weapons use should also be discussed." Ivan frowned. "I mentioned before that we have no need of atomic armaments, nor any plans for building them. Our defense is secured by something entirely different, a weapon which serves an industrial function in time of peace, and a weapon which I might add was largely responsible for our abandoning Marxism. A single discovery, Andrei Sorkin's, made communist doctrine not only a wrong solution, but a wrong solution to a problem that had ceased to exist." "What problem are you referring to?" "The use of human beings as automatic devices in a corporate machine -- the social-structure of industry, in which the worker was caught and bolted down and expected to perform a single, highly specialized task. That of course, is almost a definition of the word 'proletarian'. We no longer have a true proletariat. For that reason, we are no longer Marxist -- although the name 'communist' has survived with its meaning changed." The conference ended after setting the time for another meeting. been groping in the dark, because of the information-vacuum that kept him from even making a reasonable guess as to Ivan's real aims. He kept feeling vaguely that Ivan was just playing along, reacting according to the opportunity of the moment, not particularly caring what Smith did next. But leaders of states just did not proceed so carelessly -- not unless they were fools, or unless they were supremely confident in the ultimate outcome. T he intelligence service analysis of his latest conversation with Ivan gave him something to think about later however. Andrei Sorkin had been a physicist who had done considerable work in crystal-structure before the Big Silence had cut off knowledge of his activities from the West. Further, the Peoplesfriend's references to industrial usage, coupled with his remarks about specialized labor, seemed to suggest that the East had made great strides in servo-mechanisms and auto-control devices. But control devices were not weapons in themselves. Electronic rocketpilots were not weapons unless there were rockets for them to fly. Automatic target-trackers were not weapons unless they guided a weapon to shoot at the target. It made little sense; he concluded that Ivan had not meant it to make much sense. Smith could only interpret it as meaning: "Our weapons are marvelously controlled ; therefore we need fewer of them." On the probe front, events were about as usual. The lists of suspects and convictions grew bulky enough to keep a large office staff busy with details. More sinister, in the President's judgment, was the small list of suspects who vanished or committed suicide at the slightest hint of suspicion. The list grew at a slow but steady pace. John assumed that these were certainly guilty. And thorough, searching inquiries into their past activities, were made. These post mortem probes revealed nothing. Their records were clean. Their families, friends, relatives, and even their ancestors were above suspicion. If they had sold out to the enemy, they had given him nothing in return for his wages except perhaps a promise to be fulfilled on a Deadline Day. He called the Secretary of Defense and demanded a screening procedure be adopted for future personnel, a procedure which would be aimed at selecting men with fanatic loyalty, rather than merely guarding against treason. "We seem to already have something," murmured the Secretary, a slender, graying gentleman with aristocratic features. "The incidents at the satellite-project seem to indicate that there's something they don't like about our ordinary testing methods." "Eh? How do you mean?" "Three men -- volunteers for the project -- vanished as soon as they found out that they had to submit to all the physicals, mental tests, and so forth. I don't know what they were afraid of. They were already on the reservation. Found out they'd have to be tested again, and vanished. One a known suicide, but the body's still in the river." " 'Tested again'?" the President echoed. "That's right, John. They'd gone through it before. This was just a recheck for this particular project. Of course, I don't know that they were agents." "Mmm ! So they can't stand a recheck. All right, recheck everybody." "John! A third of the population works for the government!" "I mean everybody connected with new projects, the most important installations. This might be a weapon for us." When he received the Secretary's report a week later, John grinned happily. The rechecks had begun. and the disappearances were mounting. But the grin faded when he read the rest of it. Two of the men had been caught attempting to escape. They had been lodged in a local jail to await transfer to the capitol. During the night, the jailer became aware of a blinding light from the cell-blocks and the stench of burnt organic matter. By the time he reached their cells, the men were gone, and there were only sickening fumes, charred ashes, and a pair of red-hot patches on the floor. Somehow they had gotten incendiary materials into their cells, and the cremation was complete -- too complete to be credible. Then the disappearances began to taper off -- until finally, after a few weeks, they ceased completely. He wondered ; were the culprits all ferretted out, or had some of them managed to get around the rechecks? He had spoken to the Asian leader several times, and Ivan was growing curt, even bitingly nasty at times. The President hopefully interpreted it as a sign that his probe was successful enough to worry the Red. He tried to strengthen his position with respect to the proposed conferences, and made only minor concessions such as agreeing to a coastal city in Mexico as the site, rather than the shifting capitol. Ivan sneeringly made equally minute adjustments eastward from Singapore. There was apparently going to be a deadlock, and John was somehow not sorry. Then the cold-eyed face on the screen did an abrupt about-face, and announced, "I propose that the delegates, including the leaders of both states, meet at a site of your selection in either of the neutral polar regions, not later than Seventhday of Veto Week -- which, I think is your Fried Pie Week? -- and come prepared to discuss and exchange information relating to size of armament-inventories and future plans. This is my last proposal." T hey stared at each other coldly. John started to utter a refusal, then paused. Seventhday of... it was one day before the satellite program began moving into space. If he could keep the Eastern Leader tied up for a few weeks afterwards -- 'T'U consider your proposal and give you a reply tomorrow," he said bluntly. The Peoplesfriend gave him a curt nod and clicked off the screen. John chuckled. The enemy's espionage program was evidently geting badly hurt. About one percent of the West's population had been executed, imprisoned, or shifted to other jobs as a result of the congressional probe. The one percent probably included quite a few guilty citizens. "Rodner, I want a Strike-Day set, a full-scale blitz-operation readied as soon as possible," he told the defense-chief. "I know that a lot of your target information is forty years old, but work out the best plan you can. A depopulation strike, perhaps; there are only two opinions in the world, so 'worldopinion' is not one of the things we need to consider." The Defense Secretary caught his breath and sat stiffly erect. "War?" he gasped. "Don't use that word.""Sorry, peace-effort." "No. At least I hope not. I want a gun aimed at them as a bargaining point. But I want it to be a damned big gun, and one that's capable of shattering every major city in the East on a few hours' notice. How effective could you make it -- if you had to?" The Secretary frowned doubtfully and tugged at his ear. "Well, John, our strategic command has kept a running plan in effect, revising it to allow for every tidbit of information we can get. Planning continental blitzes is a favorite pasttime around high-level strategic commands; it keeps the boys in trim. A plan could probably be agreed upon in a very short time, but its nature would depend on your earliest deadline date." "Two dates," grunted the tragedy-mask. "The first is Seventhday, Fried Pie Week. I want a maximum possible effort readied by then, with a plan that allows for a possible stand-by at that date, and a continued build-up to a greater maximum -- to be reached when the satellite station is in space and ready for battle. Include the station in the extended plan." "This is a very dangerous business, John." The mask whirled. "Do you presume to -- ?" "No, Sir. The strike-effort will be prepared as soon as possible." He bowed slightly, then left the presidential study-vault. Smith turned to gaze at his Stand-ins. "You will go," he said. "all of you, to the examining authorities for the standard loyalty tests and psych-phys rechecks." The nine masked figures glanced at one another in surprise, then nodded. There were no protests. The following day he had only seven Stand-ins; Four and Eight had been trapped in a burning building on the outskirts of the rabble city, and their remains had not been found. Smith kept a tight cork on his rage, but it seethed inside him and threatened to burn through as the time approached to speak again with Ivan Ivanovitch IX. The enemy's infiltration into the very ranks of the Presidency robbed him even of dignity. Furthermore, now that the two scoundrels were uncovered, and dead, he remembered a very unpleasant but significant fact: he had, even before his "election" by the rabble, discussed the televiewphone conferences with the Primaries. The idea of contacting Ivan had started, as most ideas start, from some small seed or other that could scarcely be remembered, some off-hand reference to the costly aspects of the Big Silence perhaps, and it had grown into the plan for contact. But how had the idea first come to him? Had one of the guilty Stand-ins perhaps planted the seed in his mind? After he proposed it, they had seemed demurring at first, but not too long. Grimly, he realized that the idea might have originated on the far side of the Pacific. "Who, pray, is the potter, and who the pot?" he grunted, glowering at the nearest Stand-in. "I beg your pardon?" answered the man, who could not . see the glower for the mask. "Khayyam, you fool!" "Oh -- " "Sixteen o'clock!" cheeped the timepiece on the wall. "Fifthday, Anti-Rabies Week, Practice-Eugenics Week; Happy #; Peep!" John did not bother to remove his mask. He sat down quickly and began speaking before any greeting could be exchanged. "I have decided to accept your last proposal. I specify the meeting place as the deserted weather station at the old settlement of Tharviana in the Byrd-Ellsworth Sector of Antarctica. Date to be Seventhday of Fried Pie Week. Advance cadres of personnel from both sides should meet at the side two weeks earlier to make repairs and preparations. Do you agree?" Ivan nodded impatiently, his dark eyes watching the President closely. Smith went on to suggest limits for the size of both cadres, their equipment, and the kind of transportation. Ivan made only one suggestion: that the details, such as permissible arms and standards of conduct, be left to the cadre commanders to settle between themselves before the leaders' parties arrived. "Your continual espionage activities," Smith said coldly, "do not recommend your government as one to be trusted in the matter of agreements without guarantees. My cadre commander will be instructed as to details." The Asian grunted. "You speak of trust, yet violate it in advance by preparing an assault against us." They glared at each other. After a few more words, the conversation ended abruptly, and the matter was tentatively settled. It was Antarctic Summer. The sim lay low in the north, but clouds threatened to obscure it, and a forbidding coastline hulked under the ugly sky. A small group of ships sulked to the east, and watched another group that sulked to the west. Two rows of buoys marked an icefree strip across the choppy face of the sea. A speck appeared in the north, grew larger, became a giant seaplane. It circled once, then swooped majestically down between the rows of buoys, its atomic-fired jets breathing heat over the water. It slid between streamers of spray until slowly it came to a coasting halt and rode on the rise and the fall of the sea. A section of its back rolled open. It pushed a helicopter up into view. The helicopter unfolded its rotors, spun them, then climbed lazily aloft like a beetle that had ridden the eagle. It soared, and travelled inland. The sea-plane taxied west to join one group of ships. The helicopter landed near a long, windowlcss concrete building which lay in the shadow of an old control-tower's skeleton. The tower was twisted awry, and the concrete was pock-marked by shrapnel or bullets dating back to one of the peace-efforts. The President, two Stand-ins, and the pilot climbed from the helicopter. A small detachment of troops presented arms. The cadre commander, a major general, approached the delegation formally, gave it a salute, and took the President's hand. "The Peoplesfriend is already in the conference hall. Sir, with several of his aides. Do you vish to enter now, or -- " "Where are their troops?" "Over there. Sir. As you know, we could not agree to completely disarm the site. Only inside the building itself." "Any unpleasantness?" "No, sir. Their mei are well-disciplined." "Then let's go and get started. I assume that you're in constant contact with the capitol?" "Yes, Sir. Televiewphone relay chain all the way up." John looked around. The Peoplesfriend's helicopter was parked not far away, and beyond it stood a platoon of the Peoplesfriend's troops, lightly armed as his own. An Asian and a Western guard flanked the entrance to the building, but their only weapons were police-clubs. The party entered slowly and stood for a moment just inside the heavy door that swung closed behind them. John Smith removed his mask. "Greetings, hiunan." T he dull voice jcalled it from the far end of the gloomy hall where Ivan Ivanovitch IX sat facing him, flanked by a pair of aides, at a long, plain table. John Smith him. Curt bows were exchanged, but no handshakes. The Western delegation took their seats. John nudged the Stand-in on his right, who immediately opened a portfolio to extract a sheaf of papers. "Would you care to exchange prepared statements to begin with?" Smith asked coolly. "We have no -- " The Peoplesfriend stopped, smirked coldly at his deputies but continued to frown. He peered thoughtfully at his huge knuckles for a moment, then nodded slowly. "A statement -- yes." John slid a section of the sheaf of papers to the Peoplesfriend. The Red leader ignored them, spoke to a deputy curtly. "Give me a sheet of paper." The deputy fumbled in a thin briefcase, shook his head and muttered. Finally he found a dog-eared sheet with only a few lines typed across the top. He glanced questioningly at his leader. Ivan snatched it with a low grunt, tore off the good half, produced a stubby, gnawed pencil, and wrote slowly as if his hands were cramped with arthritis. John could see the big block-letters but not the words. "My prepared statement," said the Peoplesfriend. With that he pushed the scrap of paper across the table. John stared, and felt the blood leaving his face. The prepared statement said : "Is this a joke?" he growled, keeping his voice calm. "You cannot mean that you reject proposals before they are made? I fail to see the humor in -- " "There is no humor." John pushed back his chair, glanced at his men. "Gentlemen, it would appear that we have come to the bottom of the world for nothing. I think we had better retire to discuss -- " "Sit down," the Asian growled. "Why -- " The President stopped. One of the Red deputies had produced a gun. He sat, and stared coldly at the eastern leader. "Have your man dispose of that weapon. This is a conference table." The Peoplesfriend grunted an order to the other deputy instead. "Search them." "Stay back," Smith droned. "I can kill you all quite easily." The deputy hesitated. The leader started laughing, then checked it. "May I ask how?" John smiled. "Stay back, or you will find out too quickly." He unzipped his heavy Arctic clothing, removed a heavy container, shaped to conform to his chest, and laid it on the table. A cord ran from the container into his sleeve. The Peoplesfriend laughed. "High explosives? You would not set them off. However -- Jacob, let them keep their weapons. This will be over shortly." They glared at each other for a moment. "There is no conference?" "There is no conference." "Then why this farce?" The eastern leader wore a tight smile. He glanced at his watch, began counting backwards; "Seven, six, five, four -- " When he reached zero, there was a long pause; then a sharp whistle from outside. "Your men are now disarmed," said the Asian. "Your cadre commander is ours." "Impossible! The recheck -- " "He joined us since the recheck. Further, three of your televiewphone stations in the relay chain are ours, and are relaying recorded broadcasts prepared especially for the purpose." "I don't believe it!" tion, your entire defense system will be in our hands within six days -- while your nation imagines that we are here conferring on disarmament." "Ridiculous !" the President sputtered. "No system of infiltration or subversion could -- " "Your people were not subverted, Smith. They were merely replaced by ours. Your two Stand-ins, for instance, the ones that died in the fire. They were not the original men." "You could not possibly find exact doubles -- " Something about the Asian's smile made his voice taper off. He picked up the container of explosives and prepared to rise. "I am going to walk out. And you are going with me. We will return in a helicopter to my plane. Let me explain this mechanism. I have no control over the detonator, for it is not a suicide device. The detonator can be triggered only by either of two events." "Which are?" The Peoplesfriend was smiling. "The relay would be closed by a sudden drop in my arterial pressure. Or by an attempt to remove it without knowing how. I am going out, and you are going with me." "Why?" "Because I am about to reach in my pocket and produce a gun. Your deputy cannot shoot without blasting a fifty-foot crater where this building now rests." Gingerly, while he watched the wavering deputy, he made good the promise. He kept the snub-nosed automatic aimed at the easterner's belly. But the Peoplesfriend continued to smile. "May I say something before we go?" There was a sour mockery about it that made Smith pause. He nodded slowly. "I hoped to keep you here alive, so that we would not have to destroy the whole mission, including the ships. Of course, when the building is blown up, your little fleet will see and hear and try to respond, and we shall have to destroy it before word can be gotten to your capital. Our plans included that possibility, but it is unfortunate." "Our aircraft will -- " "You do not seem to realize the nature of our weapons yet. And there is no harm in telling you now, I suppose." "Well?" "We have a microscopic crystalthem can be packed into a few cubic inches. The crystals are minute tetrahedrons, with each pointed comer an electrical contact. And there is a 'method for arranging them in circuits without individual attention to each connection. It involves certain techniques in electro-plating and the growing of crystals." Smith glanced questioningly at one of his Stand-ins, a weapons expert. The man shook his head. "I can see," he muttered, "how it might replace a lot of bulky circuit elements in some electronics work -- particularly computers and servo-mechanisms -- but -- " "Indeed," said Ivan, "We have built many so-called 'thinkingmachines' no larger than a human brain." "For self-piloting weapons, I suppose?" asked the Stand-in. "For self-piloting weapons." "I fail to see how this could do what you seem to think." The Peoplesfriend snorted. "Jacob -- ?" He nodded to the deputy, who immediately fumbled in his pocket, found a penknife, opened it, and handed it to Ivan. He laid his finger on the table. He cut it off at the second joint with the penknife. There was no blood. Flesh of soft plastic. Tendons of nylon. Bones of bakelite. "Our leader," the robot said, "is still in Singapore." The President looked at the robot and a great, weariness swept over him. Suddenly it all seemed futile -- a senseless game, played by madmen, dancing over countless graves -- playing tag among the tombstones. Check and checkmate. But always there was a way out. Never a final move. Life eternal and with life, the eternal plotting and scheming. And never a final victor. Almost regretfully, the President turned his mind back to the affair at hand. No one knew, no one cared. For a great lethargy was overcoming the people and their only salvation was -- Gentleman By Rory Magill T he explosion brought "I was looking out the window. Jim Peters upright in bed. He Didn't see no flash." sat there, leaning back on the heels "Must have been further away of his hands, blinking stupidly at than it seemed." the wall. His vision cleared and he This last was spoken hopefully, looked down at Myra, just stirring and reflected the mood of all the beside him. Myra opened her eyes, people. Maybe it wasn't the bomb Jim said, "Did you feel that?" after all. Myra yawned. "I thought I was Oddly, no one had thought to dreaming. It was an explosion or consult a radio. The thought struck something, wasn't it?" them as a group and they broke Jim's lips set grimly. After ten into single and double units again years of cold war, there was only -- huriying back into the houses, one appropriate observation, and Lights began coming on here and he made it. "I guess maybe this is there. it." Jim Peters took Myra's hand, unAs by common agreement, they consciously, as they hurried up the got out of bed and pulled on their porch steps. "Hu would know," robes. They went downstairs and Jim said. "I kind of wish Hugh was out into the warm summer night, here." Other people had come out of their Myra laughed lightly -- a calcuhomes also. Shadowy figures moved lated laugh, meant to disguise the and collected in the darkness. gravity of this terrible thing. "Sounded right on top of us." "That's not very patriotic, Jim. If The fifth "one" exploded in the Mexican desert. that was the bomb, Hugh will be kept busy making other bombs to send back to them." "But he'd know. I'll bet he could tell just by the sound of it." Jim smiled quietly in the darkness -- proudly. It wasn't everybody who had a genius for a brother. A nuclear scientist didn't happen in every family. Hugh was somebody to be proud of. They turned on the radio and sat huddled in front of it. The tubes warmed with maddening slowness. Then there came the deliberately impersonal voice of the announcer:' " -- on the strength of reports now in, it appears the enemy bungled badly. Instead of crippling the nation, they succeeded only in alerting it. The bombs -- at this time there appear to have been five of them dropped -- formed a straight north-south line across western United States. One detonated close to the Idaho-Utah line. The other four were placed at almost equidistant points to the south -- the fifth bomb, according to first reports, exploding in a Mexican desert. We have been informed that Galas, Utah, a town of nine hundred persons, has been completely annihilated. For further reports, keep tuned to this station." A dance band cut in. Jim got up from his chair. "They certainly did bungle," he said. "Imagine wasting four atom bombs like that." Myra got up also. "Would you like some coffee?" "That'd be a good idea. I don't feel like going back to bed. I want to listen for more reports." But there were no more reports. An hour passed. Another and another, Jim spun the dials and got either silence or the cheerful blatherings of some inane disc jockey who prattled on as though nothing had happened. Finally Jim snapped the set off. "Censorship," he said. "Now we're going to see what it's really like." In the morning they gathered again in groups -- the villagers in this little community of five hundred, and discussed the shape of things to come, as they visualized them. "It'll take a little time to get into action," old Sam Bennett said. "Even expecting it, and with how fast things move these days -- bit'll take time." "If they invade us -- come down from the north -- you think the government will let us know they're coming?" "You can't tell. Censorship is a funny thing. In the last war, we knew more about what was going on in Europe than the people that lived there." At that moment, old Mrs. Kendal fainted dead away and had to be carried home. Three men carried her and Tom Edwards was one of them. "Kind of heavy, ain't she?" Tom said. "I never thought Mary weighed much more than a hundred." That night the village shook. In his home, Jim staggered against the wall. Myra fell to the floor. There were two tremors -- the second worse than the first. Then things steadied away, and he helped Myra to her feet. "But there wasn't any noise," Myra whispered. The whisper was loud in the silence. "That was an earthquake," Jim said. "Nothing to worry about. Might be one of the bomb's after effects." The quake did na great damage in the village, but it possibly contributed to old Mrs. Kendal's death. She passed on an hour later. "Poor old lady," a neighbor told Myra. "She was plain weary. That was what she said just before she closed her eyes. 'Hazel' she said, T'm just plumb tuckered.' " The neighbor wiped her face with her apron and turned toward home. "Think I'll lie down for a spell. I'm tuckered myself. Can't take things like I used to." earthquake -- two weeks after the falling of the bombs, and the town went on living. But it was strange, very strange. Art Cordell voiced the general opinion when he said, "You know, we waited a long time for the thing to happen -- we kind of visualized, maybe, how it'd be. But I didn't figure it'd be anything like this." "Maybe there isn't any war," Jim said. "Washington hasn't said SO. "Censorship." "But isn't that carrying censorship a little too far? The people ouLjht to be told whether or not they're at war." But the people didn't seem to c ue. A deadening lethargy had set lied over them. A lethargy they fell and questioned in their own minds, hut didn't talk about, imuh. Talking itself seemed to have become an effort. This continued weariness -- this dragging of one foot after another -- was evidently the result of radiation from the bombs. What other place could it come from? The radiation got blamed for just about everything untoward that happened. It caused Jenkin's apples to fall before they were half-ripe. Something about it bent the yoimg wheat to the ground where it mildewed and rotted. Some even blamed the radiation for the premature birth of Jane Elman's baby, even though such things had happened before even gun powder was invented. But it certainly was a strange war. Nothing came over the radio at all. Nobody seemed to care, really. Probably because they were just plain too tired. Jim Peters dragged himself to and from work in sort of a daze. Myra got her housework done, but it was a greater effort every day. All she could think of was the times she could drop on the lounge for a rest. She didn't care much whether a war was going on or not. People had quit waiting for them to come down from the north. They knew that the places where the bombs had fallen were guarded like Fort Knox. Nobody got in or out. Jim remembered the flash, the color, the rumors, the excitement of World War Two. The grim resolution of the people to buckle down and win it. Depots jammed. Kids going off to join. But nobody went to join this war. That was funny. Somehow Jim hadn't thought of that before. None of the kids was being called up. Did they have enough men? Washington didn't say. Washington didn't say anything. And the people didn't seem to care. That was the strange thing, when you could get your tired mind to focus on it. The people didn't care. They were too busily occupied with the grim business of putting one foot in front of the other. Jim got home one evening to find Myra staring dully at a small handfull of ground meat. "That's a pound," she said. Jim frowned. "What do you mean? That little bit?" Myra nodded. "I asked for a pound of hamburger and Art put that much on the scale. In fact not even that much. It said a pound. I saw it. But there was such a little bit that he felt guilty and put some more on." Jim turned away. "I'm not hungry anyhow," he said. A t ten that night, after they . were in bed, a knock sounded on the door. They had been in bed three hours, because all they could think of as soon as they had eaten was getting into bed and staying there until the last possible minute on the following morning. But the knock came and Jim went down. He called back upstairs with more life than he'd shown in a long time, "Myra -- come down. It's Hugh. Hugh's come to see us." And Myra came down quickly -- something she hadn't done for a long time either. Hugh seemed weary and drawn, but his smile was the same. Hugh hadn't changed a great deal from the gangling kid who never studied mathematics in school but always had the answers. It came natural to him. During the coffee that Myra made, Hugh said, "Had quite a time getting here. Trains disrupted. All air lines grounded. But I wanted to see you again before -- " "Then there is a war," Jim said. "We've been kind of. wondering out here. With the censorship we don't get any news and the people hereabouts have almost forgotten the bombs I guess." Hugh stared into his coffee cup for a long time. "No -- there isn't any war." Hugh grinned wryly. "I don't think anybody in the world has got enough energy left to fight one." "There was one then? One that's over?" Jim felt suddenly like a fool, sitting here on a world that might have gone through a war stretching from pole to pole, and asking if it had happened as though he lived on Mars somewhere -- out of touch. But that's the way it was. "No there wasn't any war." "You mean our government shot off those bombs themselves? You know I thought it was funny. Landing out in the desert that way like they did. "Old Joe would have hit for Chicago or Detroit or New York. It was silly to say bombs dropped on the desert came from an enemy." "No -- the government didn't fire them." Myra set her cup down. "Jim, stop asking Hugh so many questions. He's tired. He's come a long way. The questions can wait." "Yes -- I guess they can. We'll show you where your room is, Hugh." As she opened the window of the spare bedroom, Myra stood for a moment looking out. "Moon's certainly pretty tonight. So big and yellow. Wish I wasn't too tired to enjoy it." They went to bed then, in the quiet home imder the big yellow moon over the quiet town. A moon over a quiet country -- over a weary, waiting, world. Jim didn't go to work the next day. He hadn't planned to stay away from work, but he and Myra awoke very late and it was then that he made up his mind. For a long time, they lay in bed, not even the thought of Hugh being around and all the things they wanted to talk about, could bring them out of bed until they felt guilty about not getting up. Hugh was sitting on the front porch watching the still trees in the yard. There was a breeze blowing, but it wasn't enough to move the leaves. Every leaf hung straight down, not stirring, and the grass seemed matted and bent toward the earth. Myra got breakfast. She dropped the skillet while transferring the eggs to a platter but she got her foot out of the way so no harm was done. After breakfast the men went back outside. Jim moved automatically toward a chair. Then he stopped and frowned. He straighten deliberately. He tunicd and looked at his brother. I I s.iid, "Hugh. You're a man that knows. What's wrong? What did those bombs do to us? Tell me. I've got to know." Hugh was silent for a time. Then he said, "Feel up to a walk?" "Certainly. Why not?" They went to the edge of town and out into a pasture and stopped finally by a brook where the water flowed sluggishly. After a while, Hugh said, "I'm not supposed to tell anybody anything, but somehow it doesn't seem decent -- keeping the truth from your own brother. And what difference does it make -- really?" "What's happened, Hugh." "There W'eren't any bombs." "No bombs." "It happened this way. Long before this Earth was formed, a million light years out in space, a white dwarf died violently." "You're talking in riddles." Hugh looked up into the blue sky. "A dwarf star, Jim. So incredibly heavy, it would be hard for you to conceive of its weight. This star blew up -- broke into five pieces and the five pieces followed each other through space. This world was formed in the meantime -- maybe even this galaxy -- we don't know. So the five pieces of heavy star had a rendezvous with a world unborn. The world was born and grew old and then the rendezvous was kept. Right on schedule. On some schedule so huge and ponderous we can't even begin to understand it." "The five bombs." "They hit the earth in a line and drove deep into the ground. But that was only the beginning. It all has to do with magnetism -- the way they kept right on burrowing toward the center of our earth -- causing the earthquakes -- causing apples to fall from trees." Hugh turned to glance at Jim. "Did you know you weigh around six hundred pounds now?" "I haven't weighed myself lately." "We checked and found out what the stuff was. We'd never seen anything like it before. That star was a real heavyweight. All the pieces are drawing together toward the center of earth. But they'll never get there." "They won't." "We're doomed, Jim. Earth is doomed. That's the why of this censorship. We didn't want panics -- mass suicide -- a world gone mad." "How's it going to come?" "If allowed to run its course, the world would come to a complete standstill. Nothing woidd grow. People would move slower and slower until they finally fell in their tracks and could not get up. Eternal night on one side of a dead planet -- eternal day on the other." "But it's not going to happen?" Hugh's mind went off on another track. "You know, Jim -- I've never been a religious man. In fact I've only had one concept of God. I believe that God -- above all, is a gentleman." Jim said nothing and after a moment, Hugh went on. "Do you know what they do when they execute a man by firing squad?" "What do they do?" "After the squad fires its volley, the Captain steps up to the fallen man and puts a bullet through his brain. The man is executed for a reason, but the bullet is an act of mercy -- the act of a gentleman. "We are being executed for a reason we can't understand, and the bullet has already been fired, Jim. Another ten hours -- eleven hours." "What bullet?" "Look up there. See it? The Moon." Jim looked dully into the sky. "It's bigger -- a way bigger." "Hurtling in toward us at ever increasing speed. When it hits -- " Jim looked at his brother with complete understanding at last. "When it hits -- we won't be here any more." "That's right. A quick, easy death for the world -- from the bullet fired by the Last Gentleman." They turned back toward the house. "Shall I tell Myra," Jim asked. "What do you think you should do." "No -- no, we won't tell her. We've got ten hours." "Yes -- we've got ten hours." "Let's go home and have some coffee." It matters not whether you believe or disbelieve. Reality is not always based on logic; nor, particularly, are the laws oj the universe... Ye of Little Faith T he disappearance of John Henderson was most spectacular. It occurred while he was at the blackboard working an example in multiple integration for his ten o'clock class. The incompleted problem remained on the board for three days while the police worked on the case. It, a wrist watch and a sterling silver monogramed belt buckle, lying on the floor near where he had stood, were all the physical evidence they had to go on. There was plenty of eye-witness evidence. The class consisted of forty-three pupils. They all had their eyes on him in varying degrees of attention when it happened. Their accounts of what happened all agreed in important details. Even as to what he had been saying. In the reports that went into the police files he was quoted with a high degree of certainty as having said, "Integration always brings into the picture a constant which was not present. This constant of integration is, in a sense, a variable. But a different type of variable than the mathematical unknown. It might be said to be a logical variable -- " The students were in unanimous agreement and, at this point. Dr. Henderson came to an abrupt stop in his lecture. Suddenly, an expression of surprise appeared on his face. It was succeeded by an exclamation of triumph. And he simply vanished from the spot... He didn't fade away, rise, drop into the floor, or take any time vanishing. He simply stopped being there. The police searched his room in the nearby Vanderbilt Arms Hotel. They turned a portrait of the missing math professor to the newspapers to publish. Arbright He just wasn't there any more. University offered a reward of one hundred dollars to anyone who had seen him. The police also found a savings pass book in his room. It had a balance of three thousand eight hundred and forty dollars, which had been built up to that figure by steady monthly deposits over a period of years. It also had a withdrawal of three hundred and twenty dollars two days before the disappearance. They were sure they were on the path to a motive. This avenue of exploration came to an abrupt end with the discovery that he had traded in his last yea:is car on a new one, and that sum had been necessary to complete the deal. After the third day the blackboard had been erased and the classroom released for its regular classes. Police enthusiasm dropped to the norm of what they called legwork. Finding out who the missing man's acquaintances and friends were, calling on them and talking to them in the hopes of picking up something they could go on. They passed Martin Grant by because they had heard from him in their initial work. In fact, he had been a little too present for their tastes. After ten days they dropped the case from the active blotter. The .University, seeing that there was little likelihood of having to shell out the reward money, increased It to five hundred dollars. But Martin Grant continued to poiuliT over a conversation he himself had had with John Henderson during a dinner six weeks to the Iday before his old friend had vanished. He remembered his own words... "... and so you see, John, by following this trail, I've arrived at a theory that has to do with the basic nature of the universe -- of all reality. Yet things don't behave as they would if my theory were operating." John Henderson frowned into space, disturbed. Visibly disturbed. Martin watched him with a twinkle in his eyes. "You must have gone off the track on it somewhere, Martin," John said suddenly, as Aough trying more to convince himself than his listener. Martin shook his head with slow positiveness. "You followed every step. We spent four hours on it." He took pity on his friend. "Don't let it bother you. I regard it as just an intellectual curiosity. I've included it in my next book on that basis." A new voice broke in. "What is it. Dad? One of your tenthousandword shaggy dog jokes?" This from Fred Grant, #, student in the senior grade at the Hortense Bartholemew High School, and an only child of Martin Grant. "A little more respect toward your father," Martin said with much sternness. "Yes, Father." "It was my theory.' John Henderson said, "But, Martin, I don't know what to think now. Of course there must be some fallacy that I've missed. The way things stand though, I -- He chuckled uncomfortably. "I begin to doubt myself. I can't quite classify it as an intellectual curiosity." "What else can you do with it?" Martin said. "I know your trouble. It's a common one. You have a tendency to believe things or disbelieve them. Now you've been presented with something your intellect demands that you believe, while your experience shouts, 'lie'." "Is Fred able to understand it?" John asked, smiling at the youngster with fond and unconscious condescension. "Not yet," Fred smiled. "I'm still in high school." "And # you don't want to flunk out you'd better be off to bed at once," Martin told him. "Yes, Father. Good night. Dr. Henderson." Fred's departure left a vacuum in the conversation that took a minute to fill. John Henderson frowned himself back to where he had been before the boy had arrived. When he got there he frowned even more, because it was a state of mental confusion that seemed to have no way of being resolved. "Maybe we can get at it this way," he said. "Let's postulate that your theory is the only logical basis on which reality can rest. B, quite obviously reality does not rest on this basis. We could make C, therefore, that reality doesn't rest on a logical basis. But that doesn't seem to satisfy me. Maybe C could be -- no -- " He glanced at his watch, lifted his eyebrows and stood up. "I really didn't know it was so late. I'll have to be going, Martin. An eight o'clock lecture in the morning." Martin made a wry face. "You've awakened my own conscience. I have an hour or two of work yet before bedtime." The two men went to the front door. John said, "Thank your wife again for me. Wonderful dinner. You're lucky, Martin, to have such a good cook." T hat had been six weeks before John Henderson vanished. Martin Grant mentioned this visit to Horace Smith, one of the teachers in his department, and got himself and his wife invited for dinner on the following Friday. Dinner over, the two professors retired to the library. Two and a half hours later Horace had assimilated and grasped every detail of the theory. He then leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes, fingertips to temples, trying to find some flaw. Finally he shook his head. "It's no use," he said. "Your theory is logically inescapable. But -- " He frowned. "Where does that place us? Probably where some schools of thought have always suspected we would wind up eventually. With the realization that the basic laws of the universe can't be reached by logic or even by experiment based upon logic." "I wouldn't say that," Martin objected. "My theory is an intellectu curiosity, that's all. That's the way I present it in my latest book. By the way, it's coming out soon. Signed the contract a month ago." He pulled his thoughts back to the conversation. "After all, one must hold onto the pragmatic approach to reality. Here is a theory that logic says must be the only possible way a universe can be constructed and operate. It's beautiful and logically complete, but not applicable. No pragmatic value." "Congratulations on the book. But, damn it," Horace said, "it attacks my most basic faith. Logic. Reason." "Faith?" Martin echoed, amused. "Yes, perhaps you're right. That's a word that's foreign to my thinking. Belief is so unnecessary." "You don't mean that." "But I do." Horace pondered. "I can prove otherwise. You believe -- as an example -- that your wife is faithful to you." It was a statement rather than a question. "As a matter of fact -- I don't. I act upon the greater probability that e is. I don't hire detectives to follow her. Nor do I throw her into situations to test her faithfulness. I admit the possibility that she's unfaithful to me. If evidence came that she was, I might confront her with the evidence. Where does belief become necessary?" "Do you believe your son will become a success in life?" Horace asked. "No. I've done everything I could think of to increase the probability that he will. One of the things I've done is to instill in him the realization that belief is unnecessary in thinking. Surely, as a S' n iitist, you realize that nothing V I use in science finds its value Or  ilulity from human belief. If, toil row, evidence were brought Imth that ti i'umometry is based on I ill. icy I'ni sure that mathematiI IS would use that evidence to revise their entire field." "But belief is instinctive; as instinctive as thought itself." "I admit it's a natural way of thinking. It has to be weeded out." "So you're sure you don't believe in anything," Horace said slyly. "Such statements are verbal traps," Martin said. "They mean nothing. You want me to imply that I believe I believe nothing, and therefore I have at least one belief. But as a matter of fact I've built up a sort of mental mechanism for discovering beliefs in my thinking and dispelling them by going to the roots and showing myself why I believed. Belief springs up in the mind like weeds in a garden. Constant weeding is the only solution." He glanced at his watch and frowned uneasily. "Eleven o'clock. We'd better break this up and join the women. We'll have to get together again soon. By the way, do you and your wife play Canasta? My wife loves it." They had been moving toward the door. Now they entered the living room, to find the two women playing the game. "Time we were going, dear," Martin said. "And sometime soon make plans to have Horace and Ethel over for an evening of fourhanded Canasta." At the front door vows of an early reunion were repeated. But they were never to be fulfilled. On the following Tuesday Horace vanished. T his time there were no actual eye witnesses. The time was somewhere between seven and seven-ten Tuesday morning; the place; Horace Smith's bathroom. Ethel Smith was in the kitchen preparing breakfast. Horace was in the bathroom. He called out, "Ethel! I've got it!" "What have you got?" But even as Ethel called out, she heard the sound of the electric razor falling to the tile floor, and there was no answer from the bathroom. Nothing but silence and, as she described it later, a feeling that she was alone in the house. At the time, however, she wasn't alarmed. She half expected some muttered profanity over the dropping of the razor. She didn't wait for it exactly. Instead, she picked up the spatula and expertly scooped the eggs onto their two plates and carried them to the breakfast nook. Next she poured the coffee. Then, placing some bread in the toaster, she started back to the stove, calling, "Come and get it, Horace!" At the stove she started to pick up the aluminum dish containing the bacon. She paused and repeated her call. "Horace!" It wasn't until then that it occurred to her the falling of the razor might have been an ominous sound. Her mind filled with worried images, she rushed out of the kitchen into the hall leading to the bathroom. The door was locked. "Horace!" she called. "Are you all right?" When there was no answer she pounded on the door. "Horace! Speak to me!" After that she ran outside and around to the bathroom window. It was shut and locked, as she already knew. Not only that, it had been stuck for years. With an urgency born of a realization that every second might mean the difference between life and death, she ran back into the house and called the fire department. Also the family doctor. By nine-thirty the police had been called in. By eleven o'clock they had seen the parallel between this disappearance and that of John Henderson. Martin Grant's first reaction was concern for Ethel. His second reaction was that, twice, he had presented his theory to someone and that person had vanished. His third was accompanied by a twinge of fear. He had just finished presenting his theory to the senior physics class! This was followed by an amazing realization. He was conceding that there might be a connection between his theory and the disappearances. He laughed it off, but it returned. It disturbed him. It continued to bother him on Wednesday, so he began to search his mind for reasons. Eventually he found them. There was a distinct analogy between a theory that didn't agree with observable reality, and a pair of disappearances which violated known methods of disappearing. The analogy was so clear that he began to feel there might be a functional relation between the two. Of course, he concluded, it would be reasonably certain if a large number of the students in the senior group were to vanish also. This intellectual conclusion became an anxiety neurosis. So, on Wednesday -- after he had scanned the room anxiously to see how many students were absent and discovered to his intense relief that they were all there -- he spent the full hour lecturing on the necessity -- the vital necessity -- of unbelief in all things, especially scientific theories. But would it work? He vaguely remembered giving Horace a similar lecture. Wednesday night just before retiring he had another disturbing thought. He had explained the theory to his son. But that had been weeks before, and Fred was steeped in the mechanism of unbelief. Good thing, or he might have been the first to disappear. "What's the matter with you, Martin? Can't you even answer when -- " The rest of what his wife was saying faded in the startled realization that he was eating dinner. "Sorry, dear," he murmured. "I was thinking." He was trying to recall something that might tell him what day it was. It was obviously evening or they wouldn't be eating dinner. "Uh," he said casually, "what day is today?" "Saturday," Fred said. "Now Fred, don't tease your father about his absent-mindedness. This is Thursday." Thursday! That was right. He had given the lecture on the necessity of unbelief today. There was tomorrow, when he could see if any of the class had disappeared yet. He rniildn't be certain, of course, just li( i ausc a student didn't show up didn't mean he or she had vanished. He fixed his eyes on Fred, across the table, and smiled. Fred, at least, was a source of comfort. He knew the theory and hadn't vanished. "Dad," Fred said. "I've been wondering if you saw a point of similarity in the two disappearances?" Martin thought, good heavens, does he have any inkling of what I've been thinking? Of course not! He's just fumbling. Better to discourage him. "Sorry, son. There aren't any similarities except accidental ones. I've had the confidence of the police on this. The cases are quite unrelated." Fred refused to be sidetracked. "Dr. Henderson's face lit up as though a sudden idea had struck him. I talked with some of his students. That's what they all thought. And Horace Smith shouted to his wife, 'Ethel! I've got it!' The next instant in each case they vanished into thin air." "But that doesn't mean a thing." Martin Grant allowed himself to become excited. Fred had unwittingly come upon the vital clue to the two disappearances. "Let's be clear about this," he said to himself, drumming on his desk nervously with his fingers. "Undoubtedly there's a connection between the vanishing and my theory. Both Horace and John arrived at something I've missed. And since my theory is exhaustive it can't be there. It must be -- yes -- it must be that they went a step farther." He pondered this a moment and added grudgingly, "A step I have missed." Then even more grudgingly, "An obvious step." Automatically he opened a drawer and brought out a sheet of paper and a pencil. He wrote : The theory contains within itself the proof that the universe must, by logical necessity, be constructed according to said theory. But observation and experience say this is not true. He frowned at what he had written. This was the conclusion to which he had led both men. It was the conclusion upon which he had rested. They, obviously, had not rested there. They had gone on. Under what he had written he wrote "Either:" on the left hand margin. Two Inches under it he wrote, "Or:" Then he frowned at them. Suddenly he began writing rapidly after the Either: "The universe is not constructed according to logical necessity." He hesitated, studying what he had written. Then, pursing his lips, he slowly wrote after the Or: "the observable universe is not the universe." He nodded to himself. That hit at the core of the matter. A was X. B was not X. Therefore B was not A. Even though A and B were both called universe. The question was, then -- did the universe-of-logical-necessity exist? If so, what relationship did it have to the observable universe which quite obviously did exist? Was that the question, the answer to which, gained in a moment of insight, had caused two men to utterly vanish? He sighed with real regret. There was no way of knowing. Possibly a mechanical brain of the most advanced type could come out with a comprehensive picture after solving thousands of successive equations. Knowledge of simple basics was a far cry from a fully expanded system. He pushed the sheet of paper away with a show of irritation. He was missing something. He was on the wrong track. Neither John nor Horace had the mental equipment to make more than a simple step beyond what he had accomplished. That was certain. It was equally certain that he could and would make it. A startled expression appeared on his face. "Oh good lord!" he groaned. "My book. I must do something about that the first thing tomorrow. I -- " He opened the drawer of his desk and took out an oblong of paper, the check against advance royalties. "I'll return this and not let them publish it. First thing in the morning. And from now on I resolve not to think of my theory or what caused John and Horace to vanish." Folding the check neatly, he stuck it in his billfold and then started to read a book that interested him. He became engrossed in it. Half an hour later he came to enough to realize he was on safe ground, sigh with relief, and sink back Into the trains of thought of the book. It was a nice feeling to know he was safe. shining brightly and the monotony of the blue sky was relieved here and there by filmy white clouds that gave it a pleasing threedimensionalness. But to Martin Grant there was something unreal about things. He decided it must be the light. Things stood out with too sharp clarity. When he reached his office at the university he made arrangements for a substitute to take his ten o'clock class. Then he called the publishing company and made an appointment for ten-fifteen. The hour from nine to ten seemed interminably long. He found it almost impossible to concentrate on such an unimportant subject as the application of tensor analysis to electronic circuits. Ten o'clock came. He hurried to the parking lot and got in his car. It was real and comforting. But once again everything outside the windshield seemed too sharply defined. He timed himself on the way across town to the publishing house. He would have to allow himself the same time to return for his eleven o'clock class. It took twelve minutes, plus another two to find a parking place. Two minutes from the car to the eleventh floor. He was frowning at his watch as he entered the publisher's office. "Well well, Dr. Grant! Glad to sec you. I suppose you're anxious to see your book ready for market. It's coming very well. Just came back from the typesetters and is going into its first printing right away." "Huh?" Martin said, completing his mental arithmetic and jerking into an awareness of his surrounditii's "Oh, hello Mr. Browne," he s.M.I "I w.is just figuring my time. I ivc ati eleven o'clock class. I can only stay twenty-seven minutes. That gives me a three minute margin of error for traffic delays." "I see," the publisher said, a twinkle in his eye. "As I was just saying, your book -- " "Oh yes, my book," Martin interrupted. "Just a minute." He took out his billfold and extracted the check, handing it to Mr. Browne. "What's this for?" Mr. Browne asked, unfolding it. "Oh, the advance royalty check. Is something wrong with it?" "I'm returning it," Martin said. "I can't let you publish my book." "Can't let me publish it!" Browne exclaimed. "Why not? Don't tell me it infringes on someone else's copyright!" "No. Nothing like that. I've merely decided I don't want it published. I'm returning your check." "Well now, look!" Browne said. "We're a business establishment. You signed a contract. We signed one too. It protects both of us against just this sort of thing, you know." He studied Martin thoughtfully. "Sit down and relax," he invited. "I'm hiunan. Tell me why you don't want it published. Maybe I might agree with you. We have over a thousand dollars tied up already in typesetting, but -- " Martin took the seat and glanced nervously at his watch to make sure the twenty-seven minutes hadn't elapsed. "I've just changed my mind," he said curtly. "There are certain things -- I'm the head of a department, you know. I must watch my reputation. That's it, my reputation. On due reflection I believe the book might hurt my standing." "In what way?" Browne asked. "To tell you the truth, your other book did so well I didn't bother reading this one." "There's a -- " Martin brought himself up short. So Browne hadn't read it. So much the better. At least he wouldn't vanish. "I'm afraid,' he added with a self-conscious chuckle that he hoped was genuine enough to pass, "the subject matter is a little too crackpots tish in spots. That's the whole thing. It would reflect on my reputation." "Maybe we could do a little editing on it," Browne said. "Cut out the parts you think crackpottish and substitute something else in those pages. I'll get the galleys and we can look at them." "No!" Martin said. "No, I'm afraid we would have to cut out at least half of the book. No. The best thing is to forget it, but I'll make good your typesetting loss. I can pay you two hundred dollars right away and fifty dollars a month." Browne lit a cigarette slowly, his eyes on Martin. "You're serious, aren't you," he said. "I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll let the whole thing ride for the present. Maybe later -- " "No!" Martin said. "It must never be published! It's very vital that it never be published." "Okay," Browne said. "We won't publish it. We have the contract, but -- we won't publish it." "Thanks, very much," Martin said. "I must hurry back." The publisher stared thoughtfully at the closed door after Martin had gone. He glanced down at the check. large, capable of holding four hundred students in its successive tiers of seats, plus the teacher on his raised platform immediately in front of the large blackboard. In previous years there had been instances of students slipping out after roll call. In spite of everything, it had happened. Therefore a new system had been inaugurated. Before roll call Martin marched to the back of the room to the only exit and locked it. Pocketing the key, he returned to his podium. It had been going on this way for two years, and was now automatic. The day watchman, making his rounds, approached this door at precisely two thirty-four. He heard violent pounding. Along with the pounding there was a loud, hoarse voice, gasping, "Lemme out! Lemme out!" The watchman consulted his clock -- the one he used to make a record of his rounds -- and determined that it was two thirty-four. He knew that it was Dr. Grant's senior theoretical physics lecture period. He recalled that a couple of years before Dr. Grant had had trouble with students slipping out after roll call. But it occurred to him that it was hardly possible to sneak out, even on Dr. Grant, absent-minded as he was, by pounding on the door and shouting, "Lemme out!" in a terrified tone of voice. He therefore stopped and knocked on the door, calling, "What's going on in there?" ' Whoever was doing the pounding and shouting evidently didn't hear him. Waiting no longer, the day watchman used his master key on the door. A smallish young man, later identified as Mark Smythe, attempted to run past him into the hall. The watchman blocked Mark's escape and looked toward the podium in an automatic appeal to Dr. Grant. Dr. Grant was not there. The podium was unoccupied. So were all four hundred seats. There was, in fact, no one in room # except the one terrified student. In due course the police arrived, along with the regents. By five o'clock it had become certain that the greatest mass disappearance of all times had occurred, with Mark Smythe as the sole witness. He stuck to his story through repeated detailed questionings, and in the end the police were stuck with it. According to Smythe, class had begun as usual. Dr. Grant had waited until one minute after the bell had sounded, then had marched back and locked the door, and returned to the front. He had rapidly scanned the room to see if there were any absences, quickly called half a dozen names he was uncertain of, and marked the attendance slip. The police found it still resting on the table where he had placed it. Then he had begun his lecture by reni.'irking that they were behind St bedule and would have to eat(h up. He had been speaking ilriii liy tilln.ime of Marvin Green jmiipcd to his feet in great excitement, waving his hand and shouting, "Dr. Grant! Dr. Grant!" Dr. Grant had stopped his lecture and frowned darkly, then said, "If you will please take your seat -- " "But Dr. Grant!" Marvin Green had interrupted him excitedly. "I've got it! I've got it!" What had happened then was impossible for the mind to accept. Marvin Green had simply ceased to be. There had been a stunned silence. And in that silence, it went on. Student after student popping out of existence in what seemed to be a chain reaction. He wasn't aware when Dr. Grant vanished. All he knew was that when at last he was alone he looked toward the podium and the professor was also gone. He kept waiting to go himself. When he didn't, he lost the fear that had rooted him to the spot, and rushed to the exit where he at first tried to break down the door and make his escape, then subsided into pounding and shouting for help when he realized his physical strength was Insufficient for the job. Questioning didn't bring out any additional fact, nor alter any statement. There had been no sound to the vanishing, no movement of the person that could be considered significant, no flashes of light, no strange odors. Nothing. F red grant got the flash on his hot rod radio on the way home from high school. At the end of the report Fred wrote down Mark Smythe's address on a scrap of paper, and drove home to be with his mother. It was three days before he could get away. On the morning of the third day, his aunt Emily arrived to take charge of things, and he was able to slip away. He drove immediately to Mark Smythe's address. It was one of the better class rooming houses near the campus. The landlady wasn't going to let him in nor announce him until he explained he was the son of the professor who had vanished. She immediately swung to the other extreme and didn't bother to find out if Mark wanted to see him. "My father was your teacher," Fred said. "Oh? Come on in." There were tennis rackets. On the bookshelves there were tennis books. On a table there was a tennis trophy. Otherwise there was just a bed, a rug, and two or three chairs. "I don't know what I can tell you more than I've already told the police and the reporters," Mark said apologetically. "I guess it's tough, losing your father..." "Yeah," Fred agreed. "I wanted to ask you something though. Dad gave a lecture on his new theory a few days ago, didn't he?" Mark looked at him blankly. Then, "Oh! I guess he did. As a matter of fact I didn't pay much attention to it." He grinned. Then he remembered he should be solemn and stopped grinning. "I -- I sort of slipped by it. He made the mistake of telling us ahead of time it was off the course and no questions on it would be in the finals, so I more or less rested up during the period for a tennis match afterwards. Why?" "Didn't you get any of what he said?" Fred jaersisted. "Oh, a little," Mark admitted. "It was about some system of arriving at the basic laws of nature by pure logic, only what you arrived at didn't agree with facts. Some kind of intellectual curiosity." He thought a minute. "Oh," he said, "I see what you want. Didn't he leave any , notes on it? It would be too bad if his theory was lost to the world now that -- " He left the rest unsaid. "Maybe you can remember something," Fred coaxed. "Anything. Did he talk about his theory again?" "Next day he gave a lecture on the necessity of unbelief in modem science. It was pretty good. He overemphasized it, though. Some of the kids thought he was making a relion of unbelief." "What did they say about his theory?" Fred asked quickly. "Oh, they were quite impressed. Two of them live -- lived here in the rooming house. They were up here that evening tossing it back and forth. I was too tired from the tag match. I let them talk." "What did they think about it?" Mark frowned in an effort to recall. "It had to do with this universe being basically illogical, or at least seeming to be, because it didn't agree with your father's theory. They started building up fantasies on it. One I remember was a good one." "What was that?" "I think it was Jimmy. He said it would be funny if we were here because we believed this universe was the only real one. Something about inherited memory. Our coming from a long line of people who believed this was the only place, because all our ancestors who didn't believe it shot off into some other universe and had their children there. Utterly crazy. You know." "Yeah, I know," Fred agreed. "You going to be around in case I want to see you again?" "God! I hope so!" Mark said. "It makes me nervous." "You're safe enough," Fred said. "Well -- thanks. I'll be seeing you." H e smoothed out the crumpled sheet of paper and glanced at it. "What do you hope to find, Fred," his mother asked. "I don't know," he said. "Anything, I -- maybe this is something. Look." Together they read, "Either: the universe is not constructed according to logical necessity. Or: the observable universe is not the universe." There were doodlings along the right margin that meant nothing. "What does it mean?" Mrs. Grant asked. "Probably just something connected with his classes," Fred shrugged. He went on searching the waste basket, giving his mother no hint that he had already found what he was .searching for. From the position of the paper in the wa.ste basket he felt reasonably sure it had been recently written. It was probably a voicing of thoughts gained from the disappearance of Horace and John, because up to that time his father had assumed his theory was just an intellectual curiosity. His father couldn't have asked himself if the observable universe might not be the universe unless something had happened to raise a doubt, or suggest an alternative as a possibility. Mrs. Grant's interest lessened. She wandered about the room, perhaps reliving memories. It gave Fred a chance to put the piece of paper in his pocket so that when he put everything back in the waste basket his mother would dismiss the whole search. There was, of course, the file with the entire theory in it. He knew the theory by heart, however, and had no need of that file. "I think I'll go out for a while. Mom," he said. "All right, Fred," she said disinterestedly. Outside he climbed behind the wheel of his hot rod and sat there, making no motion to start the motor. He was thinking. Mark Smythe h said that he overheard two of his fellow classmen discussing the theory, one of them remarking that, "It would be funny if we were here just because we were descended from a long line of people who believed this was the only place." Could that be the key? Take gravitation, for instance. If it were something that some vital part of you had to believe, and that vital part didn't believe, would the entire person go flying off into space? What about inanimate matter? Did it have to believe too? And what about other forms of life? Or was everything except human beings just part of the props? He shook his head. That didn't seem like quite the right track. He took another. The human mind builds up a picture of the outside universe through its senses. Sometimes its ideas are wrong. Right or wrong, inside everyone's mind is a universe, derived from the outside universe. What if the outside universe were derived from something? Derived from what? The real, logically necessary universe? That could be. At least it seemed to have some value as a starting point. He tried to reason from that point. Frustration grew in him. He wished he were older, had his university education behind him. There were so many things he couldn't begin to deal with. Maybe he could take the entire problem to some of his father's friends. He shook his head over this thought. From all that had gone on it was too likely that the minute one of them discovered something that would be of help he would disappear before he could tell it! That raised another point. Why didn't he himself vanish? What was there different about him? A lot. His father had instilled in him a lot of the things he himself could only aspire to. Unbelief was the major thing. Or perhaps it was the other major thing, remembrance. His father's voice came into consciousness, saying something he had said so many times it was grooved deeply in memory, even to the inflections of voice. "All psychoses and mental troubles are caused by walled-off unpleasant memories. The child who trains himself to recall all unpleasant things and deliberately associate them with the feeling that they are valuable lessons, but harmless, will grow up in perfect balance." He smiled. He could let flow through consciousness, dozens of incidents he had taken up with his father. He was definitely different than others around him. So different he had systematically disguised it by a front of accepted behavior -- systematically and consciously, under his father's guidance. There was a chance those differences made him safe. There was a chance those differences would make it possible for him to find out what caused the others to vanish, without he himself vanishing. The other train of thought inserted itself into consciousness again. Was belief the key to the disappearances? attention when the theory was being explained. The others had undoubtedly lapped it up. The peculiar thing about the theory was that it was so logical and so inevitable that the mind tended to accept it, bplieve it to be true in spite of the evidence of the senses. Let us suppose, Fred mused, that deep within the mind there is some matrix of thought that ties the human to this universe. A matrix that could conceivably be altered, and when altered would automatically shift the person to another universe that the altered matrix fitted. The subconscious usually took time to absorb and react. That was another thing his father had taught him to observe. Learn something, and it takes from days to months for it to become lodg in the subconscious and to rise into operation naturally from there. John Henderson had taken six weeks to vanish after having learned the theory. It had taken Horace Smith three and a half days, but he had had the added factor of Dr. Henderson's disappearance to trigger reactions. The theoretical physics class had taken three days exactly, and its vanishing had been a sort of group action or chain reaction, with intensely emotional reaction after the first student had vanished before the eyes of the others. His own father, originator of the theory, had probably fallen into the trap of starting to believe after Horace had vanished, so it became a greater probability that the disappearance was related to knowledge of the theory. Seeing the students vanish had probably set up an emotional state where complete belief was precipitated. In the whole series the only improbable part was that so many students would react in the same short time. That was partly nullified by the fact that it was a special class, and only high I.Q. students with excellent records were accepted. They would tend to be somewhat identical in reaction times. He straightened up and stared through the windshield at the dark street. So there it was, the probable mechanism of vanishment. A system was fed into the conscious mind. The conscious mind accepted it. In due time that system was transferred down into the matrix that held the person in this reality or universe. Once there, it made the whole person transfer to a system where the altered matrix fitted. It might not be the system pictured in his father's theory. It might be a compromise system. Where and when probably had no meaning in relation to the two systems. That was why, when the shift came, the person vanished instantly without any strange manifestations of any kind. Was it reversible? If so, then some of those who had vanished would reappear eventually. A sudden, startling thought made Fred sit up straight, his eyes shining with excitement. So far he had been safe mainly because he habitually didn't attach belief to anything. His other facet of difference might be the means of his testing this without real danger of vanishing. Could he dredge up from the deepest layers of unconscious thought, the threads leading directly to the matrix that held him in his surroundings and learn consciously what it was? A thought. He reflected on it, then decided before he made any decisions he would explore the other avenue, the one the police had naturally thought of. Was there some person or persons unknown in back of the disappearances? Some non-human, perhaps? It could fit into the same theory of disappearance. Another universe, beings in that universe. Beings who perhaps didn't want knowledge of their universe to become known on this side of the veil. If so, why hadn't they snatched him too? Maybe they didn't know he knew about the theory. He'd never talked about it to anyone. But his father had drilled it into him as a supreme example of the reasons why belief in anything was a trap. He shook his head. It didn't seem likely that the disappearances had been engineered by anyone. They smacked too much of an inner pattern, an inner mechanism. So he came back to the other theory. What could he try to accomplish by exploring into his deepest substratum of thought? The ideal he could aim for would be conscious transfer into the other system with the assurance beforehand that he could transfer back again. If he could do that, and if he could find those who had vanished, maybe he could teach them how to return. It was something that might take a long time, he realized. His first objective was to penetrate deeper into his mind than anyone had ever consciously gone before. That alone could take a lifetime. Or it might be accomplished overnight. How would he begin? Where would be begin? he shrugged. It didn't matter. He would have to systematically extend his ability to be aware in every direction, physical and temporal, until he could be conscious of his individual blood cells if it were possible, and completely and vividly conscious, at will of every second of his past life. If that didn't lead him to his objective, it might at least point the way and increase his ability to reach his goal. That evening, Fred arrived home to find a stranger seated in the library. There was the usual moment of clumsiness such encounters generate, but Fred's mother returned with a tea tray before self-introductions became necessary. She said, "Mr. Gaard, this is my son, Fred." The man smiled easily as Mrs. Grant continued, speaking now to Fred. "This is Curt Gaard, Fred. I called on him today and what do you think I discovered. "He was a friend -- a very old friend -- of your father." Mrs. Grant stopped, a certain inward uncertainty showing through. Fred stood mute, giving voice to none of the questions which sprang up in his mind. Curt Gaard, completely at ease, took up the lead. Even as a feeling of familiarity sprang into Fred's mind, Gaard said, "I knew your father -- met him several times -- but we weren't as close as your mother's words might imply." Then Fred knew. He spoke suddenly. "You're a psychiatrist." The pieces fell into place. Fred's father had mentioned this man several times, and the boy knew he was not there by chance -- that his mother had contacted the psychiatrist -- this particular one because she too had remembered the acquaintanceship. For a moment, Fred was annoyed with his mother. Why on earth had she brought a psychiatrist into this? Then he softened as he realized she felt it to be to her son's best interests. "Yes, I'm a psychiatrist," Gaard said. Then, as though he could read Fred's mind: "Your mother did send for me, but so far as I'm concerned, it's more than just a professional visit. I knew your father and liked him. I'd like to be your friend." "You plan to psychoanalyze me?" "Don't be so grim about it," Curt Gaard smiled. "Just let's me this a social visit. There will be plenty of time for other things later. Perhaps you can drop in at my office." "Perhaps," Fred said, almost absently. A short time later he excused himself and went to his room. M rs. grant?" Mr. Browne said, smiling at the woman behind the screen door. "I'm Mr. Browne the publisher." "Browne?" she said. "Oh yes. My hus -- husband has mentioned you." "Favorably, I hope?" Browne was wondering if Dr. Grant had told her of his decision not to let the book be published. "Oh yes, very favorably." She frowned. "Which reminds me. He received a check from you for the advance royalties. I'm sure he didn't cash it because there was no deposit at the bank that large. I can't find the check anywhere. He must have had it with him when -- " She had opened the screen door. Browne went in and followed her into the study. He looked aroimd at the walls of books, almost feeling the presence of the man whose retreat this had been. "That's what I've come here to see you about," Browne said. "You see, he called on me at my office the morning of the day he vanished." "He did?" "Yes. I'm going to be quite frank with you. He returned the check to me. "Why? He said nothing to me about it." "I rather imagine he didn't have time. I've waited, knowing you wouldn't care to discuss business so soon after -- " He waited for her reaction. When she said nothing he continued. "He returned the check and said he didn't want the book published after all. I couldn't quite understand his reasons, but they are no longer valid as I see it." "What were his reasons? This surprises me very much. Just the day before that he mentioned his book and expressed pleasure that it was being published." "The reasons he gave were that the book contained some things that were -- to use his own words -- a trifle crackpottish. He thought they might reflect on him in some way." "Oh my goodness. He was always doing something like that, Mr. Browne. He leaned over backwards. Scientific integrity was a fetish with him." "I haven't read the book," Mr. Browne said. "The reader reported it was far better than Dr. Grant's first one. That was good enough for me. The reader is no longer with us." He frowned in irritation at the memory. "Left us without giving notice. But he was a good man. Excellent judgment. I'd like to go ahead with the book unless you object." "I don't know," Mrs. Grant hesitated. "If he didn't want it published -- " "But he's gone now," Browne reminded her. "I know, but -- She wept softly into a crumpled kerchief. The publisher remained silent. After a moment she pulled herself together. "He was always so absentminded. I was sure he had mislaid the check. Used it to scribble some problem on. He did that once several years ago." Browne reached into his breastpocket and brought out a long envelope and extended it toward her. "I had another check made out for advance royalties," he said, "if you decide to let me go ahead with the book." "I don't think I should, Mr. Browne." She withdrew the check from the envelope and looked at it, her eyebrows lifting at the size of the figure. "It's substantially more than the original check," Browne said. "I thought perhaps you might be in need of money, and I feel confident the book will sell exceptionally well." "It is a lot of money," Mrs. Grant said. "But I'm so confused. I wish I knew what to do." Browne leaned forward. "Your husband was a great man. I feel it as an obligation on my part to make public his last work." Mrs. Grant nodded slowly. "You may be right. I hadn't thought of it that way." "And you can undoubtedly use the money," Browne added. "There'll be more. How much more depends on how the book sells. It may be a steady income for a few years." "All right," Mrs. Grant said, making up her mind. "I'll let you publish it." "Fine!" Mr. Browne said heartily. "I felt you would. And any time you need money just call me." February. He was seventeen now, and the knowledge filled him with dismay. It had been months since his father had vanished. Or had his father vanished? Maybe his memory of those people vanishing was as wrong as his memory of which way his door opened! To check it he spent an afternoon in a newspaper office searching back papers until he found the accounts. He read them all carefully. They were as he remembered them. And in him, slowly, grew the realization that he was going to use someone. He was going to choose someone and try to make that person disappear. More, he knew that that person was going to be Curt Gaard. He decided against calling and making an appointment. He would go to the man's office and put over the sixteen-year-old act. With a great deal of shyness he confided to the receptionist that Curt was a very special friend of his mother's. She talked into the inter-office phone, did a lot of listening and yessing. Finally she told Fred that Dr. Gaard wanted him to wait a few moments. Then she dialed an outside number. Fred listened to the clicks and knew it was his home phone. The psychiatrist was going to talk to his mother. He hadn't wanted thatj but it wouldn't matter materially. The wait lasted almost half an hour. Then, with heart pounding, Fred was walking toward the dark walnut door to the inner office. Inside, he caught a comprehensive glimpse of the rumored couch, luxurious desk and chairs, thick expensive rug, and an assortment of floorlamps and oil paintings. Then the psychiatrist was upon him, heartily welcoming him. There were time-marking conversational exchanges about school, the hot rod, and life in general. There was the pause while each sized the other up. Then, "I'm glad you dropped in, Fred," Dr. Gaard smiled casually. "I'm all mixed up," Fred said. "I know something's wrong with me. I wanted someone to talk to, now that Dad is gone. I thought of you. I didn't want to bother Mom. Do you really straighten out crazy people?" "Not exactly," Curt chuckled. "A psychologist finds most of his patients among people who are just upset about things. They aren't insane. They just need someone who has experience to help them get their thoughts straightened out." "Maybe that's all I need," Fred said. "I don't think I'm crazy." "( )f course you aren't. You're a very hi .ilthy-minded young man." "I don't want Mom to know al""ii tliis..." I urt frowned, jotted something do'vii on a notepad. It was, Fred guessed, a notation to call his mother and warn her to keep quiet. "Don't worry about your mother. Now tell me, just what seems to be the trouble?" Curt smiled encouragingly. "Are you married?" Fred asked with teen-age frankness. "No," Curt smiled. "Would you marry my mother?" Fred asked bluntly. "I would like for you to be my father." Curt Gaard stared at him a moment. "I really believe you mean that," he said slowly. "You know, don't you, that it will be two years before she can be free to marry? Your father can't be declared legally, ah, departed, for two years." "No. I didn't know," Fred said, real dismay on his face. He hadn't known about that. He thought rapidly. "Then can I come live with you? Just until Mom can marry you?" Inwardly he was enjoying this. And he hoped he wasn't overdoing it. "We can't do that," Curt said. "I'll tell you what we can do, though. I'll invite myself out to dinner tomorrow evening. Don't say anything. I'll surprise your mother. And we'll see a lot of each other from now on. Okay?" Fred nodded. It was definitely okay. He wanted to be present when Curt Gaard disappeared into thin air, and this way he had a chance. H e left Curt's office highly exhilarated, almost drunk with the emotion of things working right. It lasted until the following evening when the doctor showed up and he and Fred's mother put on their little act. Then his emotions swung the other way. He experienced a reluctance to go through with his plans. There was too much that was likeable about the man. And his mother did like him. "Poor Dad," Fred thought. After dinner the next evening, Curt kept the conversation on Fred's father. It was, Fred sensed, the right time to bring up the theory. Curt would do anything to please him, to draw him out. But he hesitated. Stretching elaborately, he said, "I'm sleepy. Why don't you and Mom play Canasta or something?" "I'm going to be much too busy," his mother said. "I have to finish proofreading your father's book for the publisher. Mr. Browne is finally going to print it, and wants it back right away." "When did that happen?" Fred demanded. "Can I read it?" "You can read it when It comes out. Now you and Curt go into the study and leave me alone." She herded them out of the room. This interlude had served to strengthen Fred's resolve. Alone with the psychiatrist, he let slip that he knew of a wonderful theory his father had originated, then tried to cover up. Curt used flattery. Fred took his cue and slyly bragged that it was a theory few college professors could understand even, but he understood it. More coaxing and he was ready to start in. But his conscience got the better of him. He balked, and even as he tried to squirm out of it he realized that it was too late. Dr. Gaard would never rest until the theory had been told. "I'll tell you the next time you come," he suggested as a last retreat. "Tonight," Curt said. "Even if it takes all night. You can miss school tomorrow." He winked. "I can okay it with the teacher." "All right," Fred said in sudden crystalization of decision. "But only if you agree to master every step of it, stopping me until you have." Curt agreed. He started in. After half an hour it settled into serious listening on Curt's part, and pertinent questions that made Fred realize he was dealing with a min'd of more than average keenness. Fred's mother wandered in occasionally, and out again, without being noticed by either of them. An hour passed. Two. The final steps were drawing nearer. At times Curt was even anticipating some of them. It was midnight when it was finished. The mind of Curt Gaard held the entire pattern. Fred couldn't take his eyes oflf the man's face. The face that was mirroring the rapid flow of thoughts as it reviewed and attacked every brick in the structure, finding it solid, and solidly cemented to its neighbors. Then he saw a change come over the man's face. He had accepted the theory. Now he was trying to integrate it into the problem of Fred Grant. He hadn't yet seen the connection between the theory and the mysterious disappearances. And perhaps he wouldn't. If he did he might go the final step and realize what was going to happen to him. Fred hoped that wouldn't #f happen. He didn't want his victim to be conscious of being a victim. "You are intelligent, Fred," Curt probed, "to be able to master such an advanced theory." He glanced at his watch. "It's getting pretty late. I'll tell you what. After school tomorrow drop down to my office. We'll come out for dinner here together." "Say! That'd be swell!" Fred enthused. "I'll get right to bed so I can get enough sleep." He leaped up and called, "Mom! I'm going to bed now." He winked broadly at Curt to let him know he was getting out of his way so they could be alone together a few minutes. And that was that. The dye was cast, and all that remained was to try and use it to make progress, rather than letting it be just another disappearance that pointed to nothing constructive. There was no way of telling how fast it would work. The next afternoon and evening there was little to provide an indication, other than an occasional look that came over. Curt for moments at a time. A date was made for Saturday. It was to be a picnic in the country. That meant skipping Friday. Fred violently objected, but Curt and his mother overrode his objections. So in the end it had to be Saturday, unless Curt disappeared before then. He didn't. B ut ten minutes before school was out Friday a note was brought into the classroom from the principle's office. Curt had called to ask Fred to come to his office directly from school. Tom between excited anticipation that the psychiatrist had made an important discovery, and fear that the man would have vanished before he could get to him, Fred ran from the school building and caught the bus. At Curt's office the receptionist smiled and told him to go right in. His sigh of relief was genuine. Curt was sitting at his desk. "Come in, son," he said. There were the amenities. "Flow did school go today?" "Okay." "Anything happen?" Fred waited impatiently. Then: "I've been thinking a lot about your father's theory, Fred, and I would like to ask a few questions -- if it won't upset you." "Of course not!" Fred said. "Okay, here's a question," Curt said. "Or rather, a statement You can answer yes or no. You believe the theory is at the root of the disappearances, that in some unknown fashion knowing the theory will cause a person to vanish." So there it was. Fred debated rapidly in his mind. It might be better to admit it. "Yes," he said. "Hmm. Then let me ask you this. How do you account for the fact that you know it, and haven't disappeared?" Fred decided to be completely truthful and see what happened. "It's because I don't let belief form a part of my thinking, sir. Dad instilled that in me. With those that disappeared, logic was their groundwork of belief." "But you believe knowing the theory caused them to vanish?" Fred smiled. "I see what you rtiean. No, I don't. It's just that no other alternative seems probable, SO .   "So you work with the one that does," Curt said, nodding. "All right, let's work with it for the moment. You have probably done some thinking on what mechanism might be involved in the process of vanishing. Would you care to tell me about it?" "There's no reason why not, sir. It takes time for conscious beliefs to sink into the subconscious and integrate there. The time varies with the person and the emotions involved." "That makes sense," Curt said, nodding. "I postulated that down underneath even the subconscious, at the very roots of being, is what I named the basic thought matrix. In order for us to be here in this existence at all it must have a certain form. Change that form and, presto, the person slips out of this existence, perhaps into another." "I see." Curt drummed his fingers on the desk for a long minute. "I see," he repeated. "Has it occurred to you that you have already rejected your theory? It's quite obvious you have, you know." "How is it obvious?" Fred asked, wondering what Curt meant. "Because you told me the theory. You wouldn't have, of course, if you believed it would cause me to vanish like the others." Fred opened and closed his mouth several times, unable to cope with this. It was unexpected. "We've gotten to the root of your trouble," Curt went on. "It was a real trouble, to you. In a few months you will look back on it and marvel at it. Right now it seems real. You feel that somewhere your father still exists. You woidd like to go to him, or perhaps bring him back. Believe me, such mysterious vanishings aren't uncommon. The history of the world is full of such incidents. In some cases whole groups have vanished. Authenticated cases. In southeast Asia the people of an entire city of over night. In the last century an entire trainload of people, including the train, vanished while going from one city to another a few miles away. And there have been vanishments with reappearances, too. In England there was an old woman who suddenly vanished before the eyes of her family. At the same instant she reappeared in a room in London, miles away, in front of other people. Did she know your father's theory? Did the train that vanished know that theory?" Curt was smiling. "No. You see, it's something unrelated to your father's theory." Fred was nodding. "You may be right," he said. "I didn't know about those." "You may go now, son," Curt said. "I'll be out around eleven o'clock in the morning." Fred rose quickly. "Okay, Curt," he said. "I'll see you." He hurried out. It was too much of an effort to hide the sudden trembling. He hadn't known about other cases of vanishing. They provided data to expand the whole thing, while not in the slightest detracting from the validity of anything else. And if the talk had been pro!' d much more Curt would have iiH vitably tumbled to his motive for telling him the theory. P romptly at eleven Curt arrived. Fred's mother had already prepared the large basket of food. There were ten minutes of lastminute bustle, then they were off, with Curt skillfully tooling his Cadillac in and out of traffic until they were on the open highway. "I know just the place," he told them. "Woods, meadow, brook. Even a couple of cows." And he did. When they arrived shortly before twelve-thirty it was all that. Fred relaxed as the car came to a stop. Every second of the trip he had been ready to seize the wheel and keep the car from crashing if Curt vanished. ".Still a little nervous?" Curt asked him as they got out. "No. No, of course not!" Fred said. Curt didn't pursue the subject. Instead, he became something utterly different than he had been before, a carefree thoroughly likeFred began to regret that he had ( hosen him as his victim. He began ii hope that the process might not le automatic, that Curt wouldn't v.midi. But he stayed close to him mil lUiencd to his every word and c ln d his face as much as he I I I'oi tillfirst time in years his even joked back at Curt occasionally, something she had never done with Martin in Fred's memory. Her joking was clumsy and uncertain. Fred laughed uproariously to encourage her and to hide his uncomfortable feeling. "Oh, I haven't felt so good in ages," she said when they were seated around the tablecloth spread with sandwiches and salads and cakes. "It's wonderful getting out like this. We'll have to do it often." "We will," Curt said. "At least once a week." Fred's mother picked up a sandwich. She started to raise it to her mouth. She was smiling at Curt and about to say something to him. Both Curt and Fred were watching her. Abruptly she wasn't there. The sandwich seemed to remain stationary for a long second. Then it dropped to the tablecloth. Curt was holding a paper cup filled with hot coffee. His hand consteaming coffee over his legs. Fred stared at the space his mother had just occupied. Abruptly he squawked, "No!" He turned accusing eyes on Curt. "You told her!" Something seemed to go out of the man. He seemed to become visibly smaller. "Yes," he whispered, "I told her." Fred was crying. "But you shouldn't have," he sobbed. "I told you because I wanted you to vanish. I didn't want her to, and now she has. And nothing happened that I could use." Curt blinked at him, absorbing this new bit of information. "You wanted me to vanish?" he echoed. "Yes, I can see that now. I didn't know. It seemed too absurd. I thought you were just imagining things. Yes, I went out while you were at school and spent the whole morning teaching her every step. It was fairly easy. We had planned on coaxing you to explain it to her. Knowing it ahead of time she could pretend to grasp it that much more easily. We were planning on coaxing you into a more social relationship. Actually, she had already read the theory in your father's book she was reading for the publisher." A glassy look came into his eyes. "The book. If the theory is at the root of the disappearances the book shouldn't be published. Yes, by God. That's what your father was driving at. Your mother told me the publisher had told her your father tried to get him not to publish it." "The book has the theory in it?" Fred said. "It mustn't get published. Why -- thousands of people would read it and vanish. We've got to stop them!" Curt was shaking his head in bewilderment. "But we can't be sure. It must be something else, though what I don't know." "No," Fred said bitterly. There was a long silence. Curt broke it by saying, "What did you expect to accomplish by my vanishing?" Fred told him of Horace's shouting to his wife, "Ethel! I've got it!", and the others seeming to have a flash of divination or insight just before they vanished. "I wanted," he explained dully, "to be with you when it happened, in the hopes I could get something more than I have to go on. In that way I might be able to find out something so I could bring my father back. And Mom." He began to cry. "I see," Curt said, calm and a little subdued. "It's possible that may come. After what I've seen happen I can admit it as a possibility." "Then you will make every effort to tell me?" Fred asked. Curt smiled wryly. "You make it sound inevitable. But -- yes, I will." Fred's eyes were large and round. "I've got to find the mechanism. I've got to go where they've vanished to and show them how to get back!" He turned his eyes on Curt. "Don't you hate me?" he pleaded. "Fm just the same as a murderer!" "No, my son," Curt said gently. "Wherever your father is, your mother is with him now. If -- " A startled expression appeared on his face. "So that's it," he almost whispered. "What's it?" Fred asked. "Tell me. Please tell me. I've got to know, you know. You promised!" Curt frowned in a visible effort to jerk himself back. His eyes, holding a faraway look, rested on Fred's face, looked at it, and through it. "You promised!" Fred screamed. "Tell me!" Curt opened his mouth as though to speak. His lips smiled. And -- he was no longer there. Fred was alone, with the picnic lunch on the white square of tablecloth, with the gleaming Cadillac a few yards away, with the two white and black spotted cows grazing a short distance away, with the noisy little brook nearby. Alone... H e became aware of a police siren growing louder. He became aware he was behind a wheel, that there were cars in front of him veering wildly out of his way. The speedometer needle pointed at ninety. How had he arrived here? He took his foot off the gas. He was driving a Cadillac. Curt's. But Curt was gone. That was it! He had started out to look for the police. He pulled over to the side of the road as the police car came screaming up. Shakily he told them about the disappearances. Any doubts they might have had were held in reserve by the obvious sincerity of his grief. He led them back to the picnic grove. The tablecloth with the food on it was still there, untouched. One of the cows was grazing beside it. They listened while he told again of his mother and Curt vanishing before his eyes. Their reserved skepticism was thrust out of their minds when he identified himself as the son of Dr. Martin Grant, who had disappeared. They used their car radio. In a surprisingly short time several other cars were coming through the gate into the pasture. Fred, his mind paralyzed with grief, stood forlornly near the Cadillac. He answered the questions they put to him. He wasn't aware of the news cameras that took shots of him which were to appear in the evening papers all over the country. Eventually it was over. The police gathered up the picnic lunch, his mother's purse, and everything else. A gray-haired man in a dark brown suit who introduced himself as Captain Waters told him to get into the Cadillac. "I'll drive," Waters said. Entirely submissive, Fred obeyed. On the way into town Captain Waters said he would take Fred home if he wanted to go there, but it would be really better if he accepted an invitation to stay at the Waters home for a few days until things were straightened out. "All right," Fred said. Eternities later he was in a house with comfortable furnishings. A motherly old lady was hovering around him. Captain Waters was on the phone caUing someone. There was a steaming dinner on blue design Swedish dishes. Under coaxing Fred nibbled. Door chimes sounded. Captain Waters pushed back his chair and went away. He came back with another gray-haired man who pressed a thumb against Fred's cheek, listened to words Captain Waters was saying, then ordered Fred to roll up his sleeve. He swabbed a spot with alcohol and inserted a hypo needle. Fred watched with listless eyes. "Get him undressed and to bed," the doctor said. "Poor kid. Suffering from shock. Have to watch him the next few days..." Shock... Fred tried to concentrate on the meaning of the word. The bed was an enormous expanse of fresh smelling sheets and luxurious blankets. The pillows were mountainous... and so soft... The sun was streaming in through open French doors, filtered through bronze screen doors. An electric clock on the dresser pointed at eleven. He lay there without moving, remembering everything that had happened the day before. And he had a feeling that, in his sleep, he had been doing a lot of thinking. Or was it dreaming? "Poor boy," a melodious voice purred. He opened his eyes. It was the motherly woman, with a tray of toast and eggs and steaming coffee. The sight of it made him aware that there was a huge emptiness in his stomach. He ate, gratefully. Mrs. Waters busied herself about the room, humming soft tunes, smiling at him whenever he looked at her. When he had finished, she took the tray. "You just relax and sleep some more," she said. "The bathroom is through that door over there. If you want me for anything just call. I'll hear you. And if you want to get up and wander about the house just do so." She departed, leaving the door part way open in invitation. Fred sighed and closed his eyes. In that moment of relaxation the thinking he had done during the night rose into consciousness. For he knew now what he had to do. There was no other avenue of exploration. It might not even be possible. But if it was possible he was going to do it. He was going to vanish. He should have realized it. Once he vanished as had the others, he would have experience with the mystery. Personal experience. He would have all the data he required, instead of just data from the world he was in. If he had the ability to solve the problem of reappearance he would then be able to return, and go back again and show the others how to return. The key to vanishing was belief, that quality of thought which his father had systematically weeded from his mind since earliest infancy. It might take time to overcome that, but it should be possible. Already he believed some things. Or did he? Was it merely a realization that those things had a probability that approached certainty? His patterns of thinking were too ingrained. His mind was too well integrated. If he became irritated the irritation immediately brought up the memories of the factors that made him react that way. If he became happy he consciously knew the pattern, stretching back to early infancy. It was ingrained within him. He began to realize with a sinking sensation that he didn't actually know what belief was. If, in some way, it was present anywhere in his makeup, he didn't know how to recognize it. His mental pattern was one of unbelief. Not disbelief, the believing that something isn't true; but unbelief, the using of something in the pragmatic sense for its workability. He let his thoughts wander in the past. He could remember vaguely a moment when he had felt unreasoning terror, a sense of being lost. He could remember his father saying many times, "Belief is the lazy assuming that something is true. It is or it isn't, and the fundamental postulate of inductive logic tells us that its truth or lack of it is forever beyond our reach. So why reach for it? Use a theory if it works for you. Discard it if it doesn't. Don't use it even to the point of absurdity while clinging to a belief that it's true. It was that way with facts, too. Something that happened or seemed to happen, needed no tag of belief attached to it. If you saw it happen it didn't necessarily happen. There was such a thing as illusion. Accept it as though it had happened -- until events pointed otherwise. His playmates and teachers had been frankly skeptical of this point of view, doubting he could actually have attained it. They were quick to agree it was desirable. They just thought no one could use a thing without attaching a degree of belief or unbelief to it. Now, what should he believe? As in the attempts to reach the basic matrix by conscious extension, he had to start somewhere. It was midaftemoon when Captain Waters entered the bedroom with a cheery, "Hello!" "Hi," Fred said. He had been lying in bed with his eyes closed. "Did I wake you?" Waters said. "Sorry." He grinned. "You can go back to sleep again. I'll drop in later." Captain Waters ducked out. He started to close the door, then left it open. A few minutes later the rumble of his voice came from another part of the house. Fred tried to catch what he was saying, but couldn't. Half an hour later he heard the front door chimes. The rumble of deep voices came again. The doctor appeared in the doorway. "Well, well," he said, smiling. "I hear you had a very restful night. How do you feel today? Better?" He was advancing toward the bed as he talked. Setting his black bag down, he reached out and took Fred's pulse. "A little rapid," he said, putting his watch away. Reaching inside his coat, he took out a thermometer. He put it imder Fred's tongue. "Had anything to eat or drink in the past fifteen minutes?" he asked. Fred shook his head. The doctor stood quietly. After a while he lifted the thermometer, glanced at it, and put it away. "Looks like you're going to be fit as a fiddle," he said. "I'll be back in a few minutes. Mrs. Waters told me on the way in she was pouring me a cup of coffee." Fred remained motionless until, the doctor had left the room. Then he slipped out of bed and went to the door. On the other side of it was a living room. A swinging door of the type that opens into kitchens was just swinging closed. No one was in sight. Quickly Fred stole across to the door. He put his ear close to it and listened. "Dr. Harvey speaking," he heard the doctor say. "Connect me with thirteen please." "Is he going to be all right?" Mrs. Waters' anxious voice sounded. "I think so," the doctor said calmly. "Hello? Thirteen? Who's speaking? Oh, hello, Giles. Dr. Harvey. Do you have a vacancy? Observation, yes." "Oh dear," Mrs. Waters said unhappily. "It will be for the best," Captain Waters said. "They'll know how to take care of him." Fred waited for no more. He went back to the bedroom. His clothes were in the closet. In seconds he had them on. He could tie his shoes and button up later. He unfastened one of the screen doors and stepped out onto a flagstone path that wound around the comer of the house toward the front. There were people on the sidewalk, but none very near. It would be hours before dark, and there was no place to hide. There were two cars parked at the curb. One was a police car, the other a black Chrysler sedan, probably the doctor's car. The police car had the key in the ignition. Fred didn't hesitate. He jerked open the door and slid behind the wheel. Mrs. Waters' anxious voice sounded, calling, "Fred! Where are you?" Then the starter was whirring. The motor caught. As he shot away from the curb, Fred caught a glimpse in the rear view mirror of Captain Waters mnning down the walk from the house. As he took the first comer, touching the siren button briefly, he wondered why he had run. It had been an impulse. Maybe it was the wrong one. Maybe he could accomplish what he had to do better in some kind of institution. Maybe not. He compressed his lips grimly. The die was cast now. He would abandon the police car someplace, then slip quietly out of town on foot. He would be caught if he tried to go home. He had no money except a few dollars in change. Maybe this was all part of the new pattern that seemed to possess him. He kept the siren going, not trusting his ability to avoid traffic. Its mad scream blended into his thoughts. He was the hunted. He was sane, but the truth would brand him as insane. Or was he sane? Had anyone vanished? Was his father at home, sitting in his chair in his study, expounding his theories to his colleagues? Was his mother at home, in the kitchen, preparing dinner? His lip trembled. Homesickness welled up in him. He was near a bus line that went to the outskirts of the city. He shut off the siren and slowed down. After a few blocks and two turns he felt safe in ditching the car. He pulled quietly to the curb. He tied his shoelaces, buttoned his shirt, combed his hair. Then he got out. No one paid any attention to him. He walked to the corner. Two minutes later the bus stopped. T he night sky was clear. The moon was a lesser sun whose light made things visible and somehow unreal and mysterious. In the ditch to the right of the road two bright points of light blinked on, held for a moment, and vanished. A cat. A silent dog appeared out of the gloom, wagged its tail and half of its body in friendliness. "Nice doggy," Fred said nervously. It sniffed his trouser leg, lost interest, and moved off into the darkness. It was after midnight. How long after, he didn't know. Once a police car had come speeding by, its red lights ogling insanely, its spotlight weaving into the bushes at the side of the road. He had lain very still in the ditch until it passed. It hadn't slowed down. Later it had come back and he had again pressed his body into the earth beside the road. Off to the right now he saw the silhouette of the giant tree that had been the landmark of the picnic spot. A few minutes later he could see the gate that led to the meadow. He squeezed through it and picked out the path worn by the cars the day before. Some winged creature dipped down, shied away from him, and swept off into the darkness. A soft gurgling sound became audible. The brook. The spot where his mother and Curt had vanished, was ahead. He reached it. He vVasn't quite sure until he studied the ground and went back in memory to check on little details. Then he was certain. He had reached his goal. He knew why he had come, of course. Here he was closer to his mother than anyplace else. Here, in some unguessed way, he might get to her. What would he do when morning came? He sat down and pulled his knees up under his chin, wrapping his arms around them. Morning was far away. It might never come -- for him. If and when it did he would cope with it. "Mom," he whispered. "Mom... Crrroak! The sound of the frog broke the silence. The croak of a frog that was part of the universe -- the universe that was basically illogical. More... i Fred sobbed. The universe was Insane. Police looking for you. Doctors with their standards of sanity and insanity. Right now they were looking for him to protect him from himself. They didn't want to know why things were done. To them even the reason would be part of the insanity. They dealt in tags. Words. Their science was an illusion within an illusion. Meaningless inside a universe of meaninglessness. Crrroak, the frog said cautiously. And a night creature came down on silent wings, to weave back into the darkness. That was the reason for pragmatism. He could see it now. He had always thought his father made pragmatism his God because it was the intellectual thing to do. But now he could see the reason for it. Reality was a jungle in which Reason had to cope with Unreason, and there was no criterion except workability. Belief was an instinctive way of thought. It was like the appendix. Scientists claimed that long ago man ate tree bark. And the appendix had had a use. If so, that use was gone, but the appendix remained. Before surgery had become a common thing, thousands of people died from appendicitis. The organ that had once been necessary had become a hazard to living. Belief was something like that. He jerked out of his thoughts to listen to a car on the road. It slowed down. It stopped by the gate. A car door slammed. A man appeared briefly in the light of the headlamps. Captain Waters -- alone. He loomed a moment later inside the pasture in the light of a flashlight. He occasionally flashed it on his face so he would be recognizable. Fred felt an impulse to slip away into the darkness. He hadn't been seen. Captain Waters was just hoping he might be here. A stronger impulse made him remain as he was. The entire pattern of Captain Waters' approach indicated understanding -- or at least The bobbing flashlight came closer. It speared out and touched him; then abruptly went out. Footsteps approached. A dark form emerged from the gloom. "Hello, Fred," Captain Waters said quietly. "I came to keep you company. I'll just sit quiet and not bother you." "Okay," Fred said. T here were movements. A small flame illuminated Captain Waters' features as he lit his pipe. The flame went out. Then, only the occasional glow of the pipe, briefly illuminating the police Captain's face. Crrroak! The frog greeted this newest arrival in his domain. Fred could not think. He was too conscious of the man sitting near him. He fought down the impulse to jump up and run away into the darkness. He fought the desire to scream at the man to leave him alone. Perhaps the police captain sensed this, or perhaps he could see Fred's expression when the coal in his pipe glowed brightest. "Tell you what," he said suddenly, "You maybe would feel better alone. I'll wait in the car. When you get ready you can come home. No more doctors. Mom gave me a good talking to. She wants you to come back." Waters got up and walked away into the night. Minutes later there was the sound of a car door slamming shut. Fred was alone again. Alone. It was a feeling, almost an emotion. Intellectually he knew that nearby was a frog. A block away across the meadow was the police captain sitting in his car. Abruptly, without warning, a flash of insight spread through his entire mind. He knew suddenly what belief was. He knew it instinctively and without question. And knowing it, he knew that his foundations of unbelief were a semantic illusion that had been built up within him. The panorama of his mind, his entire life, stood clearly before him. The cute little tags of probability were superficial. They had a pragmatic value in keeping the mind open, but their function was to guide the judgment in tagging thoughts with belief or disbelief. He retreated into his aloneness until there was nothing but himself. He marveled at the unfoldment of this new understanding. He could see things in this new light of understanding. But then... A question loomed. If that were so, why hadn't he vanished like the others? Belief was an automatic process. Why hadn't it permeated to the basic matrix of his mind as it had with the others? Was he, then, still on the wrong track? But there was no other! He saw the trap he had set for himself. He had believed with all his being that belief was the key he was searching for! He had been on the wrong track. His beautiful theory of belief that spread downward into the subconscious, then down lower and lower into the basic matrix that held a person in this reality, was wrong. The evidence he had based it on was still there, but it was evidence of something else. Of what? The eastern horizon was suffused with light. It grew stronger, dimming the light of the moon. From somewhere in the depths of his being rose a feeling that soon he would know, and when he did he would be close to crossing the threshold. He unclasped his arms and straightened out his legs, feeling stabs of pain in his weary muscles. He got to his feet, tingling with weariness. By the side of the road, he could .see the police car he had stolen -- infinite ages ago. He walked toward it, and when he reached it he rlimbed in and closed the door. "Beautiful morning," Captain Waters said, starting the motor. F red awoke and opened his eyes. Across the room the !'t #-#I doors were open. Sunlight w.is lilti-ring through the copper scK-i-iis. A breeze was playing gently #I '.hi, tillIniig walk into the counii v, his rendezvous with Aloneness, (l.ipi.iin Wain's coming to bring him li.ii k, all seemed the stuff of dreams. He had the feeling that he had never left this enormous bed. Then it returned. Reality. The miracle of his reorientation to belief, the new vistas that went with it. The full realization of the true nature of the vanishments. He became aware of a figure in the doorway, watching him. It was Mrs. Waters. "Awake?" she asked cheerfully. "Yes," Fred said. "Want some breakfast?" He nodded. She went away. He raised his head and looked about the room, at the homey touches, the family pictures on the dresser and the walls, the hand sewed knickknacks and frills. This was probably the Waters' own bedroom that they had given up for him. He could vanish while Mrs. Waters was away. She would come in with the breakfast tray and find him gone. When would the moment of reorientation come? He frowned in thought. That had' stirred up something about what he had dreamed, or thought, while he was asleep. Something diat had the flavor of being very important. "Here you are!" Mrs. Waters said, sweeping into the room with the tray and its Swedish design dishes and steaming coffee and hot cereal. As she bent over to set the tray on the bed, there came the sound of the front door opening. "There's Pa, home already," She smiled worriedly at Fred. "Will you be all right? I'll tell Pa to come in and keep you company while I fix his supper." "Yes ma'am," Fred said, eyeing the food hungrily. "Only -- " She was at the door. She stopped and looked around questioningly. "I -- I think I'd like to be alone while I eat." "All right," she said, and hurried away. But Captain Waters had brushed in without giving her a chance to tell him to stay away. "Hello, son," he said warmly. "Have a good sleep?" Mrs. Waters said, "You let him alone while he eats." "It's all right," Fred said hastily. "Sure it's all right," the police captain said. He sat down and took out his pipe. He concerned himself nothing. Fred picked up a piece of golden toast and bit into one corner absently. The thoughts he had had during sleep were filtering into consciousness. He recalled how his mother had looked. There had been a fleeting expression just before she had vanished. She had been going to say something. She had changed her mind and had vanished instead! And Curt -- he had had his reorientation at least several seconds before vanishing. He had had it, and then, with his new perspective, had said, "So that's it!" It was as though the new orientation made everything else unimportant. One common factor stood out in every case, those two he had personally witnessed, and the others he hadn't seen. One common factor. Vanishing, or whatever happened that produced the vanishing, had been an impulse. There had been time for thought. For example. Curt might have considered the practicality of telling Fred what had happened to him. But he might have reflected that eventually Fred would discover what he had just discovered, so why bother? In the office Curt had told him vanishing, leaving empty houses and streets. Had the cause been the same? A true orientation? Fred looked at Captain Waters, sitting quietly, puffing slowly on his pij)e. With deliberation Waters uncrossed his legs and leaned forward. "You know, son, when you get around to it -- that is, if you feel up to it sometime -- I wish you'd tell me about it. What it is that's troubling you. I'll try to understand." "You'll try -- ?" Fred echoed. And the police captain's words started a train of thought. The others -- had the place they'd gone been a heaven or a hell? So many of them -- . Fred started suddenly. "The book!" he cried. "What book?" "I've got to see the publisher about my father's book. It's very important." "It can wait until you're feeling better," Waters said. "No. I've got to see Mr. Browne!" "Why?" "I -- I can't tell you." "All right." Captain Waters gave in. "I'll take you down and bring you back." It was half an hour later, in the reception room at the publishing company. Fred stared numbly at the big poster on the wall advertising his father's book. "Mr. Browne will see you," the receptionist said. "Wait here," Fred told Captain Waters. "I want to talk to him alone." He went to the door and opened it, stepping inside and closing it behind him. "Fred Grant?" Browne said, getting up from his desk and coming toward him, hand outstretched. "What can I do for you? Need some money?" Fred was shaking his head. "I don't want any money," he said. "I want you to stop my father's book. You can't publish it." "Now wait," Browne said. "We aren't going through that again, are we?" "You can't!" Fred said. "People will read it and vanish!" "Huh?" "People will read it and vanish! You've got to believe me. The cause of those disappearances is in that book!" Browne stared for a moment, then dragged over a notepad, wondering how his publicity boys had missed this one. He stood up and came around his desk. "You leave it to me," he said. "You won't have a thing to worry about. I'll take care of everything." "Then you won't publish it?" Browne was guiding him toward the door. "You leave it to me. Drop in again soon. If you need money just drop in any time and I'll fix you up." Fred found himself outside the door, not quite sure what Mr. Browne had promised. Inside, Browne went back to his Have to tell Nichols about it tomorrow at lunch. That vanishing stuff is a terrific publicity angle." "You still don't want to tell me what's troubling you?" Police Captain Waters said wistfully. A frown crossed Fred's features and vanished into a smile. "Nothing's troubling me," he lied. "I'm all right. I'll be all right." "You'll stay with us a while longer?" "Sure. Sure. You make me feel -- okay. I'm just going out for a ride. Be back for supper." since his mother and Curt had vanished. In that two months he had come to realize something. He didn't quite know how to express it even in his thoughts. It wasn't that he didn't want to vanish. He would, some day. But he had given up trying. It was the wrong way. The others hadn't tried. It had just come to them out of a clear sky. Some day it would come to him that way, and he would welcome it. He drove downtown and parked. A block away was a show he wanted to see. He started toward it. Abruptly he stopped. In front of him was a bookstore. In its window was a large display, and every book had his father's picture on the In back of the display was a large poster with a still larger picture, Anger flamed in Fred's mind. The anger died as abruptly as it had come. It was replaced by a homesickness, a longing. Unconsciously his footsteps carried him into the store. A man had the book in his hands. "You aren't going to buy that, George," the woman beside him was saying. "And why not?" the man asked, laughing. "I've never turned down a dare in my life!" He looked at the girl waiting on him. "Do you think I'll vanish. Miss?" The clerk smiled. "I wouldn't know. I have strict orders not to read the book." A solemn-faced man appeared out of nowhere and thrust a copy of the book at the clerk. "I want this, please," he said. "I'll be with you in a moment, sir," the clerk said. Others were waiting also. Fred stumbled from the store, bpmping into someone in the doorway as he went through, and too confused and fritened to stop and apologize. There was no way of stopping it. Maybe the police would become alarmed at the disappearances. "What's wrong with me?" he mumbled, walking blindly in the crowds on the sidewalks. "Maybe I do lack the ability to believe. I think I believe. What have I missed?" Only he, of all those who had learned the theory, had not vanished. Was faith, then, something so common, and yet impossible for he, himself, to reach? Ahead was another bookstore. In its windows were the same displays. He stopped. People were pushing through the doors. Inside they were picking up the book and looking for a clerk. The clerks were smiling and saying things Fred couldn't hear, and wrapping the books and handing them to their new owners -- people who would take them home and read -- and vanish. Into what? Something they would see, and smile at, and say, "Why, of course!" And with a simple acceptance they would enter it. He watched them. And from the depths of his being Fred longed to be one of them; to be able to go in and buy the book, and read it, and... On the other side of the window, in the store, a clerk was waiting on a customer. The customer turned to look at him, with his nose flattened against the glass. He didn't see them. In his eyes was a faraway look, a startled light. "Why of course!" he said in quiet wonder. There was just a little blur, where a nose had pressed against the window, and the customer frowned and said to the clerk, "That yotmg man outside -- he -- he -- " "Three-fifty, please," the clerk said. "Ah -- oh. Oh, sure." What is to be will be. Our only refuge lies in that which might not have been. By Robert Turner December #th, #, Two-Thirty A.M. was like actual physical pressure against his tightly squinched eyes. He tried to burrow deeper into the protectively warm, cave-like place where he'd been safe from them for so long. But he couldn't escape them. Their hands, their big, red, hideously smooth hands had him, now. They were tugging and pulling at him with a strength impossible to fight. Still he struggled. He tried to cry out but there was no sound from his constricted throat. There were only the frightening noises from outside, louder, now. He tried to twist and squirm against the hands dragging him toward that harsh, blinding light. He was too small, too weak, compared to them. He couldn't fight them off. He felt himself being stretched and strained and forced with cruel determination. He didn't want to go out there. He knew what was waiting for him out there. He couldn't go. Not out there, where... When Jeff McKinney was three years old he tipped a pot of scalding water from the stove onto himself. He was badly burned and scarred. He hovered between life and death for several weeks. JefFs father was out of work at the time and they were living in a cold water tenement. Something about the case caught a tabloid's attention and it was played up as a human interest sob story. It came to the attention of a wealthy man who volunteered to pay for plastic surgery. Then followed, long months of that kind of torture, but Jeff McKinney came out of it not too badly scarred. Not on the surface, anyhow. But his face had a strange hue. There was a frozen, mask-like cast to his features when he smiled. He was eight when he saw his father killed. He was in the taxi the older McKinney now drove for a living when the father stepped out of the driver's side onto a busy street without looking back first. The speeding truck took the car door and JefFs father with it for half a block, wedged between front wheel and fender. Jeff never forgot the sound of that, and the screaming. Nor his shock when he suddenly realized that the screams were his own. Jeff was a strange boy. He didn't have an average childhood. The poverty was more extreme after his father's death. He stayed home alone while his mother was out working at whatever job she could get, reading too much and thinking too much. Once, he looked at her with haunted eyes and said: "Mother, why is life so bad? Why are people even bom into a world like this?" What could she say to a question like that? She said: "Please, Jefferson! Please don't talk that way. Life isn't all bad. You'll see. Some day, in spite of everything, you'll be somebody and you'll be happy. The good times will come." They did, of course. A few of them. There was the day he went upstate on an outing for underprivileged boys and went fishing for the first time. He caught a whopping trout and won a prize for it That was nice; that was fun. That was when he was thirteen. That was the year the gang of kids caught him on the way home from school and beat him unconscious because he never laughed; because they couldn't make him laugh. The year before his mother died. At the orphanage he didn't mingle much with the other boys. He spent most of his after-classes hours alone in the school's chemistry lab. He liked to tinker with chemicals. They were cold, emotionless, immune to joy and sadness, yet they had purpose. He played the cello, too, with haunting beauty, but not in the school band, only when he wanted to, when nobody was around and he could really feel the music. Once, on the way home from his cello lesson in the music building, he saw some boys playing football on the orphanage athletic field. He was suddenly seized with a fierce determination to belong, to grab at some of the shouting, laughing happiness these boys seemed to have. He told them he wanted to join in and play, too. He didn't understand why they laughed so at this idea. They stopped laughing, though, after the first time he ran with the ball, and they all piled up on him and he didn't get up. He lay there, looking so ghostly and breaking so harshly and with the trickle of blood coming out of his ears. But Jeff didn't know they had stopped laughing. He recovered from that skull fracture, all right. Worse, though, than any of the unhappiness he suffered during his life, worse even than the shocks of his father's and mother's deaths, was the thing that happened to him when he was twenty and working at the laboratories of a big drug company. He met and fell hopelessly in love with a girl named Nina, a girl a few years older than he was. They married and for the first few weeks Jeff McKinney had happiness he'd neve'r known before. Until he came home from work sick, one afternoon and saw Nina with the man from the apartment over them. She didn't whine and beg for forgiveness, Nina didn't. She stood boldly while the other man laughed and laughed and she screamed invective upon Jefferson McKinney, telling him what she really thought of him, a gloomy, puny weakling who couldn't even make a decent living, telling him that she was through with him. A blank spot came into JefPs life right them. When it was over, Nina and the other man were on the floor and there was blood on the kitchen carving knife in Jeff's hand. They didn't find him for awhile. He changed his name and appearance and hid in the soiled seams and ragged fringes of society. He learned the anaesthetic powers of drugs and alcohol. He gave up trying to get anything out of this life. Then they finally picked him up, fished him from the river into which he'd jumped. There were days of torture after that, without the alcohol and drugs his wrecked system craved. Right there was the final hell that could have broken him completely. But it didn't. It was like the terrible crisis after a long illness. Things began to get better, to go to the other extreme after that. A state psychiatrist brought Jeff's case to the attention of a noted criminal lawyer. Neither Nina nor her lover had died from their knife wounds. On the plea of the unwritten law, Jeff McKinney got off with a suspended sentence. The lawyer and psychiatrist learned of his interest and knotvledge and talent for chemistry and got him another job in the experimental laboratory of a big university. Later he married a girl named Elaine, who worked at the lab with him. They had two children, and lived in a small comfortable cottage just off the University campus. For several years, they had all they wanted of life -- comfort, health, happiness. Jeff thought that life could never be more wonderful. All of his former, bitter, cynical views fell away from him. Hadn't he, with all odds against him, finally won out and acquired peace and contentment and a purpose in life? What was wrong with a world in which that could happen? Then there was the topper. Jefferson McKinney discovered a new drug which would cure and eventually eliminate a disease that was one of the world's worst killers, the drug for which thousands of scientists had been seeking for years. He was feted and honored, became a national hero. The story of his life and his discovery temporarily pushed even the doleful forecasts of an early Third War, the Big War, off the front pages. And Jeff was humbly proud and grateful that he had paid now the debt he owed to a society that could make a final victory, like his, possible. In a zenith of almost holy happiness, he stood one evening on a lecture platform in a huge auditorium in a great city, before thousands of worshipping people to make a thank-you speech after being awarded a world prize for his great scientific discovery. ( Continued on page # ) 's i 'i mm The Arrow lanced down out of the night like a spear of flame, vengeful and deadly. The legends of Jaq Merril are legion -- but legends. Hark, ye, then to the true story of the pirate benefactor. oj Mankindl By Alfred Coppel breed, unique in the Universe. Of all the races met among the stars, only homo sapiens thrives on deliberate self-delusion. Perhaps this is the secret of our greatness, for we are great. In power, if not in supernal wisdom. Legends, I think, are our strength. If one day a man stands on the rim of the Galaxy and looks out across the gulfs toward the seetee suns of Andromeda, it will be legends that drove him there. They are odd things, these legends, peopled with unreal creatures, magnificent heroes and despicable villains. We stand for no nonsense where our mythology is concerned. A man becoming part of our folk-lore becomes a fey, onedimensional, shadow-image of reality. Jaq Merril -- the Jaq Merril of the history books -- is such an image. History, folklore's jade, has daubed Merril with the rouge of myth, and it does not become him. The Peacemaker, the chronicles have named him, and that at least, is accurate in point of fact. But it was not through choice that he became the Peacemaker; and when his Peace descended over the worlds of space, Merril, the man, was finished. This I know, for I rode with him -- his lieutenant in a dozen and more bloody fights that earned him his ironically pacific laurels. Not many now living will remember the Wall Decade. History, ever pliable, is rewritten often, and facts are forgotten. When it was gone, the Wall Decade was remembered with shame and so was expunged from the record of time. But I remember it well. It was an era compounded of stupidity and grimy political maneuver. We, the greedy men of space -- and that includes Jaq Merril -- saw it end with sorrow in our hearts, knowing that we had killed it. If you will think back to the years immediately preceding the Age of Space, you may remember the Iron Curtain. Among the nations of the Earth a great schism had arisen, and a wall of ideas was built between east and west. Hydrogen bombs were stockpiled and armies marched and countermarched threateningly. Men lived with fear and hatred and distrust. Then, suddenly, came the years of spaceflight and the expanding frontiers. Luna was passed. Mars and Venus and the Jovian Moons felt the tread of living beings for the first time since the dawn of time. The larger asteroids were taken and even the cold moonlets of Saturn and Uranus trembled under the blast of Terran rockets. But the Iron Curtain still existed. It was extended out into the guK of space, an intangible wall of fear and suspicion. Thus was born the Wall Decade. Jaq Merril was made for that epoch. Ever in human history thereare those who profit from the stupidity of their fellows. Jaq Merril so profited. He dredged up the riches of space and took them for his own. And his weapon was man's fear of hb brothers. from the Terran settlement at Canalopolis, that Merril's plan was born. His ship, the Arrow, stood on the red sands of Syrtis Major, waiting for a payload to the Outer System. It stood among a good many like it: the Moonmaid, the Gay Lady, the Argonaut, and my own vessel, the Starhound. We, the captains, had gathered in the Spaceman's Rest -- a tinkling gin-mill peopled with human wrecks and hungry-eyed, dustyskinned women who had come out to Mars hoping for riches and had found only the same squalor they had left behind. I remember the look in Merril's eyes as he spoke of the treasures of space that would never be ours, of the gold and sapphires, the rubies and unearthly gems of fragile beauty and great price. All the riches of the worlds of space, passing through our hands and into the vaults of the stay-athomes who owned our ships and our very lives. It seemed to me that Merril suffered as though from physical pain as he spoke of riches. He was nothing if not rapacious. Greedy, venal, ruthless. All of that. "Five of us," he said in a hard voice, "Captains all -- with ships and men. We carry the riches of the universe and let it slip through our fingers. What greater fools could there be?" Oh, he was right enough. We had the power to command in our hands without the sense to grasp it firmly and take what we chose. "And mark you, my friends," Merril said, "A wall has been buUt around Mars. A wall that weakens rather than strengthens. A wonderful, stupid, wall..." He laughed and glanced around the table at our faces, flushed with wine and greed. "With all space full of walk," he said softly, "Who could unite against us?" The question struck home. I thought of the five ships standing out diere on the rusty desert across the silted canal. Five tall ships -- against the stars. We felt no kinship to those at home who clung to creature comforts while we bucketed among the stars risking our lives and more. We, the spacemen, had become a race apart from that of the home planet. And Merril saw this in our faces that night so long ago, and he knew that he had spoken our thoughts. Thus was bom the Compact. Gods of space, but I must laugh when I read what history has recorded of the Compact. "Merril, filled with the wonder of his great dream, spoke his mind to the Captains. He told them of the sorrow in his heart for his divided fellow men, and his face grew stern when he urged them to put aside ideology and prejudice and join with him in the Compact." So speaks Quintus Bland, historian of the Age of Space. I imagine that I hear Merril's laughter even as I write. Oh, we put aside ideology and prejudice, all right! That night in Yakki the five Captains clasped hands over the formation of the first and only compact of space-piracy in history! ture. Our crews were told nothing, but their pockets were emptied and their pittances joined with ours. We loaded the five ships with supplies and thundered off into the cobalt Martian sky to seek a stronghold. We found one readily enough. The chronicles do not record it accurately. They say that the fleet of the Compact based itself on Eros. This is incorrect. We wanted no Base that would bring us so close to the home planet every year. The asteroid we chose was nameless, and remained so. We spoke of it seldom aspace, but it was ever in our minds. There was no space Wall, there to divide us one from the other. It was a fortress against the rest of mankind, and in it we were brothers. When we struck for the first time, it was not at a Russian missile post as the histories say. It was at the Queen of Heaven, an undefended and unsuspecting merchantman. The records of Earth say the Queen was lost in space between Uranus and Mars, and this is so. But she was listed lost only because no RusMan or American patrol found her gutted hulk. I imagine that at this very moment she hangs out beyond Pluto, rounding the bend of the long ellipse we sent her on that day we stripped her bones. She carried gold and precious stones -- and more important yet, women being furloughed home after forced labor in the mines of Soviet Umbriel. The Starhound and the Arrow bracketed her a million miles above the plane of the ecliptic near Saturn's orbit, and killed her. We drew abreast of her and forced her valves. We boarded her and took what we chose. Then we slaughtered her men and sent them on their long voyage. That was the beginning. The attack against Corfu was our next move. This is the battle that Celia Witmar Day has described in verse. Very bad verse. "Corfu slumbered, gorged and proud -- While Arrow, Hound and Maid marshalled Freedom's might above the tyrant's ground. And rained down death -- " There is much more, of course. Brave phrases of emotion and fanciful unreality written by one who never saw the night of space agleam with stars. There was no talk of tyranny or liberty aboard the Hound that day we leveled with the Maid and the Arrow a thousand miles over the Russian base of Corfu. There was talk of the bullion stored under the fortress' turrets. Merril's face appeared in my visor screen, superimposed on the image of the grimy little asteroid floating darkly against the starfields. "Their radar has picked us up by now, and they're wondering who we are," he said, "Take the Hound out on tangent left and join the Maid. Cover my attack and stand by to put a landing party aground." I watched the image of the Arrow -- a. sliver of darkness against the crescent of Corfu -- lancing down at the fortress. Her forward tubes were glowing with the familiar pre-discharge emanation. Below us, confusion reigned. For the first time in memory an asteroid Base was under attack. Merril brought the Arrow in to within fifty miles and then unleashed the fury of his forward tubes. Hellfire coruscated over the steel turrets and stone walls of Corfu. It splashed like a liquid flame over men arid metal and twisted the towers and buttresses into spidery tendrils of glowing thread. Corfu died without firing a shot. We put a party from the Hound aground ten hours later. Even then, we had to wear insulated suits to walk in that still molten inferno. Charred bodies had become one with the stuff of the fortress, and nothing living was left within the keep. We looted Corfu's treasure and lifted into space heavy with gold. j Time passed in an orgy of looting for the men of the Compact. We grew rich and arrogant, for in space we were kings. Tom by suspicion of one another, America and Russia could do nothing against us. They had built an Iron Curtain in space, and it kept them divided and weak. Endymion felt our blasts, and Clio. Then came Tethys, Rhea, lapetus. We cared nothing for the flag these Bases flew. They were the gathering points for all the gold and treasure of space and we of the Compact took what we wished of it, leaving a trail of blood and rapine behind us. No nation claimed our loyalty; space was our mother and lust our father. Thus, the Peacemakers. F or five full years -- the long years of the Outer Belt -- the Arrow, the Starhound, the Moonmaid, the Lady and the Argonaut were the scourges of the spacelanes. No patrol could find us, and no defense could contain us. I recall how we laughed at the angry sputtering of Earth's radio. Vast sums were spent in searches and new weapons to protect the meek and Ae mutually distrustful from Merril and the men of the Compact. Budgets, already strained to the breaking point by generations of the cold war, creaked and groaned as Russians and Americans spent furiously to build up their defenses against our depredations. But though we were few and they many -- space was large and it hid us well. And then one darkling day, Jaq Merril and I stood on the thin methane snow that carpeted our Base's landing ramp, waiting under our own blue-black sky for the return of the Argonaut. Merril had sent her sunward to strike at the mines of Loki, an asteroid where Russian komisars rolled in mountains of blood-red rubies. We waited through the day and into the sable night, but the Argonaut did not return. For the first time since the formation of the Compact, we had lost a ship, and something like unease crept into our hearts. The carousal that night had no gaiety, and there was the sound of bereaved women weeping. Merril could learn nothing of the Argonaut's fate. It was as though she had dropped through a hole in the fabric of space itself and vanished from the ken of men. To me he said: "I fear a new weapon." But to the rest, he kept his peace and let the work of the Compact continue. There was nothing else to be done. Our Wall Decade was waning, and when a man or a Compact outlives the age that gave him or it birth, there is nothing to do but go forward and meet the new day dawning. So it was with the Compact. We lived on as we had lived before: wealth of space into our coffers. But in the back of our minds a shadow was lurking. On the next raid, the Lady was lost. I saw it happen, as did Merril. There was nothing we could do to into the void as she ruptured in her last agony. It was off Hyperion, whence we had come to loot the trove built there by the prospectors of the Saturnian Moons. And it was a trap. The Arrow, the Hound and the Lady circled the moonlet, swinging inward to the attack. It was the Lady who was to put aground the raiding party, and her valves hung open while men readied the assaultboats. Our radar screens showed nothing of danger. There was only the bloated giant in the sky, a ringed monster of yellow gold against the starry velvet of space. The Lady dropped her boats, the Hound and the Arrow hovering by to watch over their sister. And suddenly, the jagged moonscape below erupted -- belching streaks of fire that sought us like probing fingers. I knew in one single instant of terror that this was the new weapon that had killed the Argonaut, for it sliced into the Lady's flanks as though the steelite hull were cheese. She bulged, glowing like an ember. There was a sudden nimbus of snow about her as her air escaped and froze, and then she rolled into her death-dance, open from bow into the void. The Arrow and the Hound drove off into space like furies leaving the spinning body of their sister ship behind, not waiting to watch her crash down onto the rocky face of Hyperion. And now the five of the Compact were only three, and again there was the sound of weeping among our women. gagement, a single assault-boat returned to Base. It was the lone survivor of the Lady's landing party. By some miracle, the three men aboard had escaped the holocaust. They had landed and been captured and then they had fought their way free and into the void once more. They were half-dead from starvation and exposure, but they had brought word to Merril that the wall that had so long protected us was crumbling. Merril sought me out, his lean hard face grim and set. "There was a Russian among the Americans on Hyperion," he said. "A prisoner?" It was my hope that spoke so, not my sure knowledge of what was to come. Merril shook his head slowly. "A technician. They developed the beam that killed the Argonaut and the Lady -- together." His voice was harsh and bleak. Then suddenly he laughed. "We've touched them," he said, "Touched them on their tender spot -- their purses." He bowed low, filled with bitter mockery. "Behold the diplomats, the men who are accomplishing the impossible!" And I knew that his words spelt doom. Doom for the Compact and for the Wall Decade that was our life. Yet we did not stint. In that year we raided Dione, lo, Gannymede, and even the American naval Base on Callisto. We gutted six Russian and four American rockets filled with treasure. And we ventured sunward as far as the moons of ' Mars. We dared battles with patrol ships and won. We killed the destroyer Alexei Tolstoi off Europa and we shattered an American monitor over Syrtis itself, and watched the wreckage rain down on Yakki, the place where the Compact was born. And we lost the Moonmaid. The radio told us the story. Other new weapons were being developed against us, and here and there American and Russian spacecraft were seen in company for the first time in the history of the Age of Space. Convoys were formed from ships of both flags to protect spatial commerce from the imagined "great fleet" of the Compact. None knew that only the Arrow and the Starhound, small ships, weary ships, were left to face the slowly combining might of Earth. And then at last, the pickings -- growing slimmer always -- diminished to the vanishing point. Merril stood before us and gave the assembled crews their option. "The treasure hunt is over," our captain told us, "And those who wish may withdraw now. Take yoiuwomen and the space-boats and return to Mars. You have your shares, and you can live in comfort wherever you may choose. If you wish it, go now." Some few did go, but most remained. I watched Merril's face, and saw one last plan maturing there. Then he spoke again and we all understood. One last raid... to take Luna and command the world! "Still the unity of Mankind was not secure, and Merril, filled with impatience for his great dream, decided on one final stroke. He would descend on Luna Base itself with his fleet, and commanding all Earth, he would drive men together -- even though it might mean his own death. With this plan of self-immolation in his heart, the Peacemaker ordered his hosts and sought the pumice soil of the mother planet's moon... This is the way Quintus Bland, historian and scholar puts it down for posterity. I, one of "his hosts", would say it another way. We had gutted the Solar System of its treasure and at last men were uniting against us. Our "fleet" was reduced to two small ships and a bare handful of men and women to fight them. Jaq Merril could see the handwriting on the wall and he knew that all must be gambled on one last throw of the dice. Only with Terra herself under our guns could we hope to continue sucking the juice of the worlds into our mouths. It was all or nothing, for we had grown used to our life and we could no longer change it to meet the demands of the dawning age of Soviet-American amity. the Hound slanted sunward. Mars behind us, ahead lay the Earth-Moon system. Ten years had passed since any of us aboard the Compact ships had seen the home world, and though we no longer felt a part of it, the sight of the silvery cloud-flecked globe touched our hearts. Touched them as the sapphires of Mimas or the gold of Corfu touched them. We saw the planet that gave us birth and we were filled with hunger for it. To own it, command it, make it our own. Luna's mountains were white and stark under our keels as Merril led us across the curve of the southern horizon, seeking to put us into position to attack the UN Moon Base in Clavius from the direction of the Moon's hidden face. We swung low across unnamed mountain ranges and deep sheer valleys steeped in shadow. The voice of the ranger in the Arrow came softly through the open intercom into the tiny control room of the Hound. A woman's voice, tense with excitement, but disciplined and controlled. "Range five hundred miles, four seventy five, four fifty -- " And then Merril's voice, calm and reassuring, giving heart to all the untried ones aboard with his steady conning commands. "Four o'clock jet, easy, hold her. Drivers up one half standard. Steady goes. Meet her. Steady -- " Line astern now, the two ships flashing low across the jagged lunar landscape, and a world in the balance -- An alarm bell ringing suddenly, and my screen showing the fleeting outline of a Russian monitor above, running across our stern. My own voice, sharp with command: "Gun pointer!" "Here sir!" "C?et me that gunboat." The Hound's turret wound about with agonizing slowness as the monitor reached for the sky, clawing for altitude and safety. And then there came a searing blast of fire and the fragments of the Russian gunboat raining down lazily, seeking their eternal rest in the pumice of Luna's hidden face. But they had been warned at the UN Base. The monitor had left one dying shriek in the ether, and the waiting garrison had heard. Merril knew it, and so did I. We moved forward calmly, into the jaws of hell. The Arrow attacked from ten o'clock, low on the horizon, the Hound from twelve o'clock high. We swept in over the batteries of pulsating projectors, raining down our bombs. The ground shuddered and shook with the fury of exploding uranium and the sky was laced with a net of fiery death. The Hound shrieked her protest as I swung her about for another attack. There was a sickening swerve and the smell of ozone in my ship. Somewhere, deep within her, a woman screamed and I felt the deck under me give as one of the questing beams from the fortress below cut into the hull. Airtight doors slammed throughout the wounded vessel, and I drove her to the attack again, hard. The last of the bombs clattered out of the events, sending mushrooms of pumice miles into the black sky. One battery of guns below fell silent. The Arrow vanished into the night above and as suddenly reappeared, her forward tubes spewing red fire onto the Base below. Then Merril pulled her up again and disappeared among the pale stars. The Hound's hurt was mortal, I could feel her dying under my hands, and tears streaked my face. Below decks, she was a shambles where the cutting beam from the ground had torn part of her heart out. Still I fought her. There was no retreat from this last raid, nor did I wish any. There was a madness in us -- a bloodlust as hot and demanding as ever our lust for gold and treasure might have been. I lashed the face of the fortress with the Hound's forward tubes, frantically, filled with a hateful anguish. I felt my ship losing way, twisting and seeking rest on the jagged ground below, and thinking he had deserted us, I cursed Merril in an ecstacy of blind fury. Again and again the Hound was hit. I knew then that Merril's plan had been madness, a last gesture of defiance to the new age of unity among men. The Hound fell at last, spitting fire and gall in a futile dance of death. She struck on a lugh plateau, grinding into the pumice, rolling with macabre abandon across the face of the high tableland. Then at last she was still, hissing and groaning fitfully as she died, her buccaneering days gone forever. I donned a suit and staggered, half dazed, out into the lunar night. A half-dozen men and women from the crew had survived the impact and they stood by the wreckage, faces under the plastic helmets turned skyward. They were one and all stunned and bleeding from the violence of the Hound's end, but they looked neither back nor around them. Their eyes were filled with the insane glory of the drama being enacted in the sky. The Arrow had returned. She lanced down out of the night like a spear of flame, vengeful and deadly. Straight into the mouth of the screaming guns she dove, death the Moon Base in fire, searing the men within -- Russian and American alike -- into the brotherhood of death. Miraculously, she pulled up out of her encircling net of flame. We watched in openmouthed wonder as she reached with sobbing heart for the sky just once again -- and then, failing, crippled and dying, she hung above the crater's rim, framed with deadly beams from below, but radiant in her own right -- gleaming in the light of the sun. This was defeat. We knew it as we stood by the tangled pile of steelite that had been the Hound and watched the Arrow die. But nothing in this life that I have lived ever told me so grandly that the Wall Decade was ended -- and our life of buccaneering with it -- as the thing that happened next. The Arrow's valve opened and a tiny figure stepped out -- into space. I did not need to be told that Jaq Merril was coming to meet the men he had welded together against him. Lazily, unreally, the tiny shape twisted over and over as it fell, until at last it vanished amid the raw welter of craters and ridges beyond the razor wall of Clavius... though one that will not he believed. I have taken the Peacemaker of the histories and painted him as he was. But men are ashamed, and the chronicles of history must be rewritten to hide their weaknesses, Jaq Merril has become a legend, and the man that I knew is forgotten. Merril -- pirate, fighter, grandiose dreamer. That was my captain. Not the colorless do-good creature of the legend. Merril fought for lust and greed, and these afe the things that will one day take men to the stars. He knew this truth, of course, and that was the substance of his great dream. Because of it, there are no longer walls in space, and the men who united to fight the Peacemaker will one day rule the universe. Meanwhile, chroniclers will write lies about him, and Jaq Merril's laughter will echo in some ghostly Valhalla beyond the farthest star.  p her. comfxrt it' mem There is a time for doing and a time for going home. But where is home in an ever-changing universe? By Mari Wolf I to go home." She didn't look at me. I followed her gaze to Earth, rising in the east. It came up over the desert horizon, a clear, bright star at this distance. Right now it was the Morning Star. It wasn't long before dawn. I looked back at Martha sitting quietly beside me with her shawl drawn tightly about her knees. She had waited to see it also, of course. It had become almost a ritual with us these last few years, staying up night after night to watch the earthrise. She didn't say anything more. Even the gentle squeak of her rocking chair had fallen silent. Only her hands moved. I could see them trembling where they lay folded in her lap, trembling with emotion and tiredness and old age. I knew what she was thinking. After seventy years there can be no secrets. We sat on the glassed-in veranda of our Martian home looking up at the Morning Star. To us it wasn't a point of light. It was the continents and oceans of Earth, the mountains and meadows and laughing streams of our childhood. We saw Earth still, though we had lived on Mars for almost sixty-six years. "Lewis," Martha whispered softly. "It's wry bright tonight, isn't it?" "Yes," I said. "It seems so near." She sighed and drew the shawl higher about her waist. "Only three months by rocket ship," she said. "We could be back home in three months, Lewis, if we went out on this week's run." I nodded. For years we'd watched the rocket ships streak upward through the thin Martian atmosphere, and we'd envied the men who so casually travelled from world to world. But it had been a useless envy, something of which we rarely spoke. Inside our veranda the air was cool and slightly moist. Earth air, perfumed with the scent of Earth roses. Yet we knew it was only illusion. Outside, just beyond the glass, the cold night air of Mars lay thin and alien and smelling of alkali. It seemed to me tonight that I could smell that ever-dry Martian dust, even here. I sighed, fumbling for my pipe. "Lewis," Martha said, very softly. "What is it?" I cupped my hands over the match flame. "Nothing. It's just that I wish -- I wish we could go home, right away. Home to Earth. I want to see it again, before we die." "We'll go back," I said. "Next year for sure. We'll have enough money then." She sighed. "Next year may be too late." I looked over at her, startled. She'd never talked like that before. I started to protest, but the words died away before I could even speak them. She was right. Next year might indeed be too late. Her work-coarsened hands were thin, too thin, and they never stopped shaking any more. Her body was a frail shadow of what it had once been. Even her voice was frail now. She was old. We were both old. There wouldn't be many more Martian summers for us, nor many years of missing Earth. "Why can't we go back this year. Lewis?" She smiled at me almost apologetically. She knew the reason as well as I did. "We can't," I said. "There's not enough money." "There's enough for our tickets." I'd explained all that to her before, too. Perhaps she'd forgotten Lately I often had to explain thing more than once. "You can't buy passage unless you have enough extra for insurance, and travelers' checks, and passport tax. The company has to protectitself. Unless you're financially responsible, they won't take you on the ships." She shook her head. "Sometimes I wonder if we'll ever have enough." i i I i years, but it was a pitifully small savings. We weren't rich people who could go down to the spaceport and buy passage on the rocket ships, no questions asked, no bond required. We were only farmers, eking our livelihood from the unproductive Martian soil, only two of the countless little people of the solar system. In all our lifetime we'd never been able to save enough to go home to Earth. "One more year," I said. "If the crop prices stay up..." She smiled, a sad little smile that didn't reach her eyes. "Yes, Lewis," she said. "One more year." But I couldn't stop thinking of what she'd said earlier, nor stop seeing her thin, tired body. Neither of us was strong any more, but of the two I was far stronger than she. When we'd left Earth she'd been as eager and graceful as a child. We hadn't been much past childhood then, either of us... "Somedmes I wonder why we ever came here," she said. "It's been a good life." She sighed. "I know. But now that it's nearly over, there's nothing to hold us here." "No," I said. "There's not." If we had had children it might have been different. As it was, we lived surrounded by the children and grandchildren of our friends. Our friends themselves were dead. One by one they had died, all of those who came with us on the first colonizing ship to Mars. All of those who came later, on the second and third ships. Their children were our neighbors now -- and they were Martian born. It wasn't the same. She leaned over and pressed my hand. "We'd better go in, Lewis," she said. "We need our sleep." Her eyes were raised again to the green star that was Earth. Watching her, I knew that I loved her now as much as when we had been young together. More, really, for we had added years of shared memories. I wanted so much to give her what she longed for, what we both longed for. But I couldn't think of any way to do it. Not this year. Once, almost seventy years before, I had smiled at the girl who had just promised to become my wife, and I'd said; "I'll give you the world, darling. All tied up in pink ribbons." I didn't want to think about that now. We got up and went into the house and shut the veranda door behind us. hours I lay in bed staring up at the shadowed ceiling, trying to think of some way to raise the money. But there wasn't any way that I could see. It would be at least eight months before enough of the greenhouse crops were harvested. What would happen, I wondered, if I went to the spaceport and asked for tickets? If I explained that we couldn't buy insurance, that we couldn't put up the bond guaranteeing we wouldn't become public charges back on Earth... But all the time I wondered I knew the answer. Rules were rules. They wouldn't be broken especially not for two old farmers who had long outlived their usefulness and their time. Martha sighed in her sleep and turned over. It was light enough now for me to see her face clearly. She was smiling. But a minute ago she had been crying, for the tears were still wet on her cheeks. Perhaps she was dreaming of Earth again. Suddenly, watching her, I didn't care if they laughed at me or lectured me on my responsibilities to the government as if I were a senile fool. I was going to the spaceport. I was going to find out if, somehow, we couldn't go back. I got up and dressed and went out, walking softly so as not to awaken her. But even so she heard me and called out to me. "Lewis... I turned at the head of the stairs and looked back into the room. "Don't get up, Martha," I said. "I'm going into town." "All right, Lewis." She relaxed, and a minute later she was asleep again. I tiptoed downstairs and out the front door to where the trike car was parked, #md started for the village a mile to the west. It was desert all the way. Dry, fine red sand that swirled upward in choking clouds, if you stepped off the pavement into it. The narrow road cut straight through it, linking the outlying district farms to the town. The farms themselves were planted in the desert. Small, glasseiin houses and barns, and large greenhouses roofed with even more glass, that sheltered the Earth plants and gave them Earth air to breathe. farmhouse John Emery hurried out to meet me. "Morning, Lewis," he said. "Going to town?" I shut off the motor and nodded. "I want to catch the early shuttle plane to the spaceport," I said. "I'm going to the city to buy some things..." I had to lie about it. I didn't want anyone to know we were even thinking of leaving, at least not until we had our tickets in our hands. "Oh," Emery said. "That's right. I suppose you'll be buying Martha an anniversary present." I stared at him blankly. I couldn't think what anniversary he meant. "You'll have been here thirtyfive years next week," he said. "That's a long time, Lewis..." Thirty-five years. It took me a minute to realize what he meant. He was right. That was how long we had been here, in Martian years. The others, those who had been born here on Mars, always used the Martian seasons. We had too, once. But lately we forgot, and counted in Earth time. It seemed more natural. "Wait a minute, Lewis," Emery said. "I'll ride into the village with you. There's plenty of time for you to make your plane." I went up on his veranda and sat down and waited for him to get ready. I leaned back in the swing chair and rocked slowly back and forth, wondering idly how many times I'd sat here. This was old Tom Emery's house. Or had been, until he died eight years ago. He'd built this swing chair the very first year we'd been on Mars. Now it was young John's. Young? That showed how old we were getting. John was sixty-three, in Earth years. He'd been bom that second winter, the month the parasites got into the greenhouses... He came back out onto the veranda. "Well, I'm ready, Lewis," he said. We went down to my trike car and got in. "You and Martha ought to get out more," he said. "Jenny's been asking me why you don't come to call." , I shrugged. I couldn't tell him ; we seldom went out because when we did we were always set apart and treated carefully, like children. He probably didn't even realize that it was so. "Oh," I said. "We like it at home." He smiled. "I suppose you do, after thirty-five years." I started the motor quickly, and from then on concentrated on my driving. He didn't say anything more. get to the village, but even so I was tired. Lately it grew harder and harder to drive, to keep the trike car on the narrow strip of pavement. I was glad when we pulled up in the square and got out. "I'll walk over to the plane with you," Emery said. "I've got plenty of time." "All right." "By the way, Lewis, Jenny and I and some of the neighbors thought we'd drop over on your anniversary." "That's fine," I said, trying to sound enthusiastic. "Come on over." "It's a big event," he said. "Deserves a celebration." The shuttle plane was just landing. I hurried over to the ticket window, with him right beside me. "I just wanted to be sure you'd be home," he said. "We wouldn't want you to miss your own party." "Party?" I said. "But John -- " He wouldn't even let me finish protesting. "Now don't ask any questions, Lewis. You wouldn't want to spoil the surprise, would you?" He chuckled. "Your plane's loading now. You'd better be going. Thanks for the ride, Lewis." I went across to the plane and got in. I hoped that somehow we wouldn't have to spend that Martian anniversary being congratulated and petted and babied. I didn't think Martha could stand it. But there wasn't any polite way to say no. spaceport. In less than an hour the plane dropped down to the air strip that flanked the rocket field. But it was like flying from one civilization to another. The city was big, almost like an Earth city. There was lots of traffic, cars and copters and planes. All the bustle of the spaceways stations. But although the city looked like Earth, it smelled as dry and alkaline as all the rest of Mars. I found the ticket office easily enough and went in. The young clerk barely glanced up at me. "Yes?" he said. "I want to inquire about tickets to Earth," I said. My hands were sweating, and I could feci my heart pounding too fast against my ribs. But my voice sounded casual, just the way I wanted it to sound. "Tickets?" the clerk said. "How many?" "Two. How much would they cost? Everything included." "Forty-two eighty," he said. His voice was still bored. "I could give them to you for the flight ter next. Tourist class, of course..." We didn't have that much. We were at least three hundred short. "Isn't there any way," I said hesitantly, "that I could get them for less? I mean, we wouldn't need insurance, would we?" He looked up at me for the first time, startled. "You don't mean you want them for yourself, do you?" "Why yes. For me and my wife." He shook his head. "I'm sorry," he said flatly. "But that would be impossible in any case. You're too old." He turned away from me and bent over his desk work again. The words hung in the air. Too old... too old... I clutched the edge of the desk and steadied myself and forced down the panic I could feel rising. "Do you mean," I said slowly, "that you wouldn't sell us tickets even if we had the money?" He glanced up again, obviously annoyed at my persistence. "That's right. No passengers over seventy carried without special visas. Medical precaution." I just stood there. This couldn't be happening. Not after all our years of working and saving and planning for the future. Not go back. Not even next year. Stay here, because we were old and frail and the ships wouldn't be bothered with us anyway. Martha... How could I tell her? How could I say, "We can't go home, Martha. They won't let us." I couldn't say it. There had to be .some other way. "Pardon me," I said to the clerk, "but who should I see about getting a visa?" He swept the stack of papers away with an impatient gesture and frowned up at me. "Over at the colonial office, I suppose," he said. "But it won't do you any good." I could read in his eyes what he thought of me. Of me and all the other farmers who lived in the outlying districts and raised crops and seldom came to the city. My clothes were old and provincial and out of style, and so was I, to him. "I'll try it anyway," I said. He started to say something, then bit it back and looked away from me again. I was keeping him from his work. I was just a rude old man interfering with the operation of the spaceways. Slowly I let go of the desk and turned to leave. It was hard to walk. My knees were trembling, and my whole body shook. It was all I could do not to cry. It angered me, the quavering in my voice and the weakness in my legs. I went out into the hall and looked for the directory that would point the way to the colonial office. It wasn't far off. I walked out onto the edge of the field and past the Earth rocket, its silver nose pointed up at the sky. I couldn't bear to look at it for longer than a minute. It was only a few hundred yards to the colonisJ office, but it seemed like miles. T his office was larger than the other, and much more comfortable. The man seated behind the desk seemed friendlier too. "May I help you?" he asked. "Yes," I said slowly. "The man at the ticket office told me to come here. I wanted to see about getting a permit to go back to Earth... His smile faded. "For yourself?" "Yes," I said woodenly. "For myself and my wife." "Well, Mr..." "Farwell. Lewis Farwell." "My name's Duane. Please sit down, won't you?... How old are you, Mr. Farwell?" "Eighty-seven," I said. "In Earth years." He frowned. "The regulations say no space travel for people past seventy, except in certain special cases..." I looked down at my hands. They were shaking badly. I knew he could see them shake, and was judging me as old and weak and unable to stand the trip. He couldn't know why I was trembling. "Please," I whispered. "It wouldn't matter if it hurt us. It's just that we want to see Earth again. It's been so long..." "How long have you been here, Mr. Farwell?" It was merely politeness. There wasn't any promise in his voice. "Sixty-five years." I looked up at him. "Isn't there some way -- " "Sixty-five years? But that means you must have come here on the first colonizing ship." "Yes," I said. "We did." "I can't believe it," he said slowly "I can't believe I'm actually looking at one of the pioneers." He shook his head. "I didn't even know any of them were still on Mars." "We're the last ones," I said. "That's the main reason we want to go back. It's awfully hard staying on when your friends are dead." D uane got up and crossed the room to the window and looked out over the rocket field. "But what good would it do to go back, Mr. Farwell?" he asked. "Earth has changed very much in the last sixty-five years." He was trying to soften the disappointment. But nothing could. If only I could make him realize that. "I know it's changed," I said. "But it's home. Don't you see? We're Earthmen still. I guess that never changes. And now that we're old, we're aliens here." "We're all aliens here, Mr. Farwell." "No," I said desperately. "Maybe you are. Maybe a lot of the city people are. But our neighbors were born on Mars. To them Earth is a legend. A place where their ancestors once lived. It's not real to them..." He turned and crossed the room and came back to me. His smile was pitying. "If you went back," he said, "you'd find you were a Martian, too." I couldn't reach him. He was friendly and pleasant and he was trying to make things easier, and it wasn't any use talking. I bent my head and choked back the sobs I could feel rising in my throat. "You've lived a full life," Duane said. "You were one of the pioneers. I remember reading about your ship when I was a boy, and wishing I'd been born sooner so that I could have been on it." Slowly I raised my head and looked up at him. "Please," I said. "I know that. I'm glad we came here. If we had our lives to live over, we'd come at;ain. We'd go through all the hardships of those first few years, and enjoy them just as much. We'd be just as thrilled over proving that it's possible to farm a world like this, where it's always freezing and the air is thin and nothing will grow outside the greenhouses. You don't need to tell me what we've done, or what we've gotten out of it. We know. We've had a wonderful life here." "But you still want to go back?" "Yes," I said. "We still want to go back. We're tired of living in the past, with our friends dead and nothing to do except remember." He looked at me for a long moment. Then he said slowly, "You realize, don't you, that if you went back to Earth you'd have to stay there? You couldn't return to Mars..." "I realize that," I said. "That's what we want. We want to die at home. On Earth." F or a long, long moment his eyes never left mine. Then, slowly, he sat down at his desk and reached for a pen. "All right, Mr. Farwell," he said. "I'll give you a visa." I couldn't believe it. I stared at him, sure that I'd misunderstood. "Sixty-five years..." He shook his head. "I only hope I'm doing the right thing. I hope you won't regret this." "We won't," I whispered. Then I remembered that we were still short of money. That that was why I'd come to the spaceport originally. I was almost afraid to mention it, for fear I'd lose everything. "Is there -- is there some way we could be excused from the insurance?" I said. "So we could go back this year? We're three hundred short." He smiled. It was a very reassuring smile. "You don't need to worry about the money," he said. "The colonial office can take care of that. After all, we owe your generation a great debt, Mr. Farwell. A passport tax and the fare to Earth are little enough to pay for a planet." I didn't quite understand him, but that didn't matter. The only thing that mattered was that we were going home. Back to Earth. I could see Martha's face when I told her. I could see her tears of happiness... There were tears on my own cheeks, but I wasn't ashamed of them now. "Mr. Farwell," Duane said. "You go back home. The shuttle ship will be leaving in a few minutes." "You mean that -- " I started. He nodded. "I'll get your tickets for you. On the first ship I can. Just leave it to me." "It's too much trouble," I protested "No it's not." He smiled. "Besides, I'd like to bring them out to you. I'd like to see your farm, if I may." Then I remembered what John Emery had said this morning about our anniversary. It would be a wonderful celebration, now that there was something to celebrate. We could even save our announcement that we were going home until then. "Mr. Duane," I said. "Next week, on the tenth, we'll have been here thirty-five Martian years. Maybe you'd like to come out then. I guess our neighbors will be giving us a sort of party." He laid the pen down and looked at me very intently. "They don't know you're planning to leave yet, do they?" "No. We'll wait and tell them then." Duane nodded slowly. "I'll be there," he promised. M artha was out on the veranda again, looking down the road toward the village. All afternoon at least one of us had been out there watching for our guests, waiting for our anniversary celebration to begin. "Do you see anyone yet?" I called. "No," she said. "Not yet..." I looked around the room hoping I'd find something left undone that I could work on, so I wouldn't have to sit and worry about the possibility of Duane's having forgotten us. But everything was ready. The extra chairs were out and the furniture all dusted, and Martha's cakes and cookies arranged on the table. I couldn't sit still. Not today. I got up out of the chair and joined her on the veranda. "I wonder what their surprise is..." she said. "Didn't John give you any hint at all?" "No," I said. "But whatever it is, it can't be half as wonderful as ours." She reached for my hand. "Lewis," she whispered. "I can hardly believe it, can you?" "No," I said. "But it's true. We're really going." I put my arm around her, and she rested her head against me. "I'm so happy, Lewis." Her cheeks were full of color once again, and her step had a spring to it that I hadn't seen for years. It was as if the years of waiting were falling away from both of us now. "I wish they'd come," she said. "I can hardly wait to see their faces when we tell them." It was getting late in the afternoon. Already the sun was dipping down toward the desert horizon. It was hard to wait. In some ways it was harder to be patient these last few hours than it had been during all those years we'd wanted to go back. "Look," Martha said suddenly. "There's a car now." Then I saw the car too, coming quickly toward us. It pulled up in front of the house and stopped and Duane stepped out. "Well, hello there, Mr. Farwell," he called. "All ready for the trip?" I nodded. Suddenly, now that he was here, I couldn't say anything at all. He must have seen how excited we were. By the time he was inside the veranda door he'd reached into his wallet and pulled out a long envelope. "Here's your schedule," he said. "Your tickets are all made out for next week's flight." Martha's hand crept into mine. "You've been so kind," she whispered. smiled at each other while Duane admired the furniture and the farming district in general and our place in particular. We hardly heard what he was saying. When the doorbell rang we stared at each other. For a minute I couldn't think who it might be. I'd forgotten our guests and their surprise party, even the anniversary itself had slipped my mind. "Hello in there," John Emery called. "Come on out, you two." Martha pressed my hand once more. Then she stepped to the door and opened it. "Happy anniversary!" We stood frozen. We'd expected only a few visitors, some of our nearest neighbors. But the yard was full of people. They crowded up our walk and in the road and more of them were still piling out of cars. It looked as if everyone in the district was along. "Come on out," Emery called. "You too, Duane." The two men smiled at each other knowingly, and for just a moment I had time to wonder why. Then Martha clutched my arm. "You tell him, Lewis." "John," I said. "We have a surprise for you too -- He wouldn't let me finish. He took hold of my arm with one hand and Martha's with the other and drew us outside where everyone could see us. "You can tell us later, Lewis," he said, "First we have a surprise for you!" "But wait -- " They crowded in around us, laughing and waving and calling "Happy anniversary". We couldn't resist them. They swept us along with them down the walk and into one of the cars. I looked around for Duane. He was in the back seat, smiling somewhat nervously. Perhaps he thought that this was normal farm life. "Lewis," Martha said, "where are they taking us?" "I don't know..." The cars started, ours leading the way. It was a regular procession back to the village, with everyone laughing and calling to us and telling us how happy we were going to be with our surprise. Every time we tried to ask questions, John Emery interrupted. "Just wait and see," he kept saying. "Wait and see... A t the end of the village square they'd put up a platform. It wasn't very big, nor very well made, but it was strung with yards of bunting and a huge sign that said, "Happy Anniversary, Lewis and Martha." We were pushed toward it, carried along by the swarm of people. There wasn't any way to resist. Martha clung to my arm, pressing close against me. She was trembling again. "What does it mean, Lewis?" "I wish I knew," They pushed us right up onto the platform and John Emery followed us up and held out his hand to quiet the crowd. I put my arm around Martha and looked down at them. Hundreds of people. All in their best clothes. Our friends's children and grandchildren, and even greatgrandchildren. "I won't make a speech," John Emery said when they were finally quiet. "You know why we're here today -- all of you except Lewis and Martha know. It's an anniversary. A big anniversary. Thirty-five years today since our fathers -- and you two -- landed here on Mars..." He paused. He didn't seem to know what to say next. Finally he turned and swept his arm past the platform to where a big canvas-covered object stood on the ground. "Unveil it," he said. The crowd grew absolutely quiet. A couple of boys stepped up and pulled the canvas off. "There's your surprise," John Emery said softly. It was a statue. A life-size statue carved from the dull red stone of Mars. Two figures, a man and a woman, dressed in farm clothes, standing side by side and looking out across the square toward the open desert. They were very real, those figures. Real, and somehow familiar. "Lewis," Martha whispered. "They're -- they're us!" She W#S right. It was a statue of us. Neither old nor young, but ageless. Two farmers, looking out forever across the endless Martian desert... There was an inscription on the base, but I couldn't quite make it out. Martha could. She read it, slowly, while everyone in the crowd stood silent, listening. "Lewis and Martha Farwell," she read. "The last of the pioneers -- " Her voice broke. "Underneath," she whispered, "it says -- the first Martians. And then it lists them -- us..." She read the list, all the names of our friends who had come out on that first ship. The names of men and women who had died, one by one, and left their farms to their children -- to the same children who now crowded close about the platform and listened to her read, and smiled up at us. She came to the end of the list and looked out at the crowd. "Thank you," she whispered. They shouted then. They called out to us and pressed forward and held their babies up to see us. across the flat red desert to the horizon, toward the spot in the east where the Earth would rise, much later. The dry smell of Mats had never been stronger. The first Martians... They were so real, those carved figures. Lewis and Martha Farwell... "Look at them, Lewis," Martha said softly. "They're cheering us. Us!" She was smiling. There were tears in her eyes, but her smile was bright and proud and shining. Slowly she turned away frcim me and straightened, staring ovit over the heads of the crowd across the desert to the east. She stood with her head thrown back arid her mouth smiling, and she was as proudly erect as the statue that was her likeness. "Martha," I whispered. "How can we tell them goodbye?" Then she turned to face me, and I could see the tears glistening in lil t !!. "We can't leave, Lewis. N I .liter this." li(' was right, of course. We I niildn't leave. We were symbols. Tilllast of the pioneers. The first .M.irtians. And they had carved thi-ir symbol in our image and made us a part of Mars forever. I glanced down, along the rows of upturned, laughing faces, searching for Duane. He was easy to find. He was the only one who wasn't shouting. His eyes met mine, and I didn't have to say anything. He knew. He climbed up beside me on the platform. I tried to speak, but I couldn't. "Tell him, Lewis," Martha whispered. "Tell him we can't go." Then she was crying. Her smile was gone and her proud look was gone and her hand crept into mine and trembled there. I put my arm around her shoulders, but there was no way I could comfort her. "Now we'll never go," she sobbed. "We'll never get home..." I don't think I had ever realized, until that moment, just how much it meant to her -- getting home. Much more, perhaps, than it had ever meant to me. The statues were only statues. They were carved from the stone of Mars. And Martha wanted Earth. We both wanted Earth. Home... I looked away from her then, back to Duane. "No," I said. "We're still going. Only -- " I broke off, hearing the shouting and the cheers and the children's laughter. "Only, how can we tell them?" Duane smiled. "Don't try to, Mr. Farwell," he said softly. "Just wait and see." He turned, nodded to where John Emery still stood at the edge of the platform. "All right, John." Emery nodded too, and then he raised his hand. As he did so, the shouting stopped and the people stood suddenly quiet, still looking up at us. "You all know that this is an anniversary," John Emery said. "And you all know something else that Lewis and Martha thought they'd kept as a surprise -- that this is more than an anniversary. It's goodbye." I stared at him. He knew. All of them knew. And then I looked at Duane and saw that he was smiling more than ever. "They've lived here on Mars for thirty-five years," John Emery said. "And now they're going back to' Earth." Martha's hand tightened on mine. "Look, Lewis," she cried. "Look at them. They're not angry. They're -- they're happy for us!" John Emery turned to face us. "Surprised?" he said. I nodded. Martha nodded too. Behind him, the people cheered again. "I thought you would be," Emery said. Then, "I'm not very good at speeches, but I just wanted you to know how much we've enjoyed being your neighbors. Don't forget us when you get back to Earth." Mars to Earth. Three months miles. A trip we had dreamed about for so long, without any real hope of ever making it. But now it was over. We were back on Earth. Back where we had started from. "It's good to be alone, isn't it, Lewis?" Martha leaned back in her chair and smiled up at me. I nodded. It did feel good to be here in the apartment, just the two of us, away from the crowds and the speeches and the official welcomes and the flashbulbs popping. "I wish they wouldn't make such a fuss over us," she said. "I wish they'd leave us alone." "You can't blame them," I said, although I couldn't help wishing the same thing. "We're celebrities. What was it that reporter said about us? That we're part of history..." She sighed. She turned away from me and looked out the window again, past the buildings and the lighted traffic ramps and the throngs of people bustling by outside, people who couldn't see in through the one-way glass, people whom we couldn't hear because the room was soundproofed. "Mars should be up by now," she said. "It probably is." I looked out again, although I knew that we would see nothing. No stars. No planets. Not even the moon, except as a pale half disc peering through the haze. The lights from the city were too bright. The air held the light and reflected it down again, and the sky was a deep, dark blue with the buildings about us towering into it, outlined blackly against it. And we couldn't sec the stars... "Lewis," Martha said slowly. "I never thought it would have changed this much, did you?" "No." I couldn't tell from her voice whether she liked the changes or not. Lately I couldn't tell much of anything from her voice. And nothing was the same as we had remembered it. Even the Earth farms were mechanized now. Factory production lines for food, as well as for everything else. It was necessary, of course. We had heard all the reasons, all the theories, all the latest statistics. "I guess I'll go to bed soon," Martha said. "I'm tired." "It's the higher gravity." We'd both been tired since we got back to Earth. We had forgotten, over the years, what Earth gravity was like. She hesitated. She smiled at me, but her eyes were worried. "Lewis -- are you really glad we came back?" It was the first time she had asked me that. And there was only one answer I could give her. The one she expected. "Of course, Martha..." She sighed again. She got up out of the chair and turned toward the bedroom door, and then she paused there by the window looking out at the deep blue sky. "Are you really glad, Lewis?" Then I knew. Or, at least, I hoped. "Why, Martha? Aren't you?" For one long minute she stood beside me, looking up at the Mars we couldn't see. And then she turned to face me once again, and I could see the tears. "Oh, Lewis, I want to go home !" Full circle. We had both come full circle these last few hectic weeks on Earth. "So do I, Martha." "Do you, Lewis?" And then the lircdncss came back to her eyes and she looked away again. "But of course we can't." Slowly I crossed over to the desk and opened the top drawer and took out the folder that Duane had given me, that last day at the spaceport, just before our ship to Earth had blasted off. Slowly I unfolded the paper that Duane had told me to keep in case we ever wanted it. "Yes, we can, Martha. We can (Continued from page #) But in the middle of his talk he broke off suddenly. A flash of blindwindows. Horror painted his face. In a whisper, he cried; "No! No! It would make it all so senseless!" His eyes looked like the eyes of a man with flaming splinters jammed under his fingernails. His face seemed to pucker, and grow infantile. Then he screamed: "No! Leave me alone! I told you I didn't want to come out here, to be one of you! Damn you, why did you bring me out here? For -- for this?..." There were the shards of glass from the great auditorium windows, floating inward, turning lazily. There were the brick walls crumbling, tumbling inward, scattering through the air in the same seeming slow motion. The dust cloud and the sound, the flat blastsound, came after that, as the entire building -- perhaps the world -- go back." "What's that, Lewis?" And then she saw what it was. Her face came alive again, and her eyes were shining. "We're going home?" she whispered. "We're really going home?" I looked down at the Earth-Mars half of the round trip ticket that Duane had given me, and I knew that this time she was right. This time we'd really be going home. end disintegrated ill itlie: feye-searing light... December #th, #, Two-Thirty A.M. The flat of a rubber-gloved hand striking flesh made a splatting noise. A thin, breathless but concentrated crying followed. The doctor looked down at his charity clinic patient, the woman under the bright delivery room lights. "Look at him -- fighting like a little demon!" the doctor said. "Seemed almost as though he didn't want to come out and join us... What's the matter, son? This is a bright, new, wonderful world to be born into... What are you going to call the boy, Mrs. McKinney?" The woman under the lights forced a tired smile. "Jeff. Jefferson McKinney. That's going to be his name," she whispered proudly. The baby's terrified squalling subsided into fretful, whimpering resignation. The atomic bomb meant, to most people, the end. To Henry Bemis it meant something far different -- a thing to appreciate and enjoy. Time Enough At Last By Lynn Venable F or a long time, Henry was never enough time. It looked Bemis had had an ambition, as though Henry's ambition would To read a book. Not just the title never be realized. Then something or the preface, or a page somehappened which changed all that, where in the middle. He wanted Henry was down in the vault of to read the whole thing, all the way the Eastside Bank  Trust when it through from beginning to end. A happened. He had stolen a few simple ambition perhaps, but in the moments from the duties of his cluttered life of Henry Bemis, an teller's cage to try to read a few impossibility. pages of the magazine he had Henry had no time of his own. bought that morning. He'd made There was his wife, Agnes who an excuse to Mr. Carsville about owned that part of it that his emneeding bills in large denominaployer, Mr. Carsville, did not buy. tions for a certain customer, and Henry was allowed enough to get to then, safe inside the dim recesses of and from work -- that in itself being the vault he had pulled from inside quite a concession on Agnes' part, his coat the pocket size magazine. Also, nature had conspired He had just started a picture aragainst Henry by handing him with tide cheerfully entitled "The New a pair of hopelessly myopic eyes. Weapons and What They'll Do To hand in front of his face. For a world crashed in upon his earwhile, when he was very young, his drums. It seemed to be inside of parents had thought him an idiot, him and outside of him all at once. When they realized it was his eyes. Then the concrete floor was rising they got glasses for him. He was up at him and the ceiling came never quite able to catch up. There slanting down toward him, and for a fleeting second Henry thought of a story he had started to read once called "The Pit and The Pendulum". He regretted in that insane moment that he had never had time to finish that story to see how it came out. Then all was darkness and quiet and unconsciousness. knew that something was desperately wrong with the Eastside Bank  Trust. The heavy steel door of the vault was buckled and twisted and the floor tilted up at a dizzy angle, while the ceiling dipped crazily toward it. Henry gingerly got to his feet, moving arms and legs experimentally. Assured that nothing was broken, he tenderly raised a hand to his eyes. His precious glasses were intact, thank God! He would never have been able to find his way out of the shattered vault without them. He made a mental note to write Dr. Torrance to have a spare pair made and mailed to him. Blasted nuisance not having his prescription on file locally, but Henry trusted no-one but Dr. Torrance to grind those thick lenses into his own complicated prescription. Henry removed the heavy glasses from his face. Instantly the room dissolved into a neutral blur. Henry saw a pink splash that he knew was his hand, and a white blob come up to meet the pink as he withdrew his pocket handkerchief and carefully dusted the lenses. As he replaced the glasses, they slipped down on the bridge of his nose a little. He had been meaning to have them tightened for some time. He suddenly realized, without the realization actually entering his conscious thoughts, that something momentous had happened, something worse than the boiler blowing up, something worse than a gas main exploding, something worse than anything that had ever happened before. He felt that way because it was so quiet. There was no whine of sirens, no shouting, no running, just an ominous and all pervading silence, H enry walked across the slanting floor. Slipping and stumbling on the uneven surface, he made his way to the elevator. The ear lay crumpled at the foot of the shaft like a discarded accordian. There was something inside of it that Henry could not look at, something that had once been a person, or perhaps several people, it was impossible to tell now. Feeling sick, Henry staggered toward the stairway. The steps were still there, but so jumbled and piled back upon one another that it was more like climbing the side of a mountain than mounting a stairway. It was quiet in the huge chamber that had been the lobby of the bank. It looked strangely cheerful with the sunlight shining through the girders where the ceiling had fallen. The dappled sunlight glinted across the silent lobby, and everywhere there were huddled lumps of unpleasantness that made Henry sick as he tried not to look at them. "Mr. CarsvLlle," he called. It was very quiet. Something had to be done, of course. This was terrible, right in the middle of a Monday, too. Mr. Carsville would know what to do. He called again, more loudly, and his voice cracked hoarsely, "Mr. Carrrrsville !" And then he saw an arm and shoulder extending out from under a huge fallen block of marble ceiling. In the buttonhole was the white carnation Mr. Carsville had worn to work that morning, and on the third finger of that hand was a massive signet ring, also belonging to Mr. Carsville. Numbly, Henry realized that the rest of Mr. Carsville was under that block of marble. Henry felt a pang of real sorrow. Mr. Carsville was gone, and so was the rest of the staff -- Mr. Wilkinson and Mr. Emory and Mr. Prithard, and the same with Pete and Ralph and Jenkins and Hunter doorman. There was no one to say what was to be done about the Eastside Bank  Trust except Henry Bemis, and Henry wasn't worried about the bank, there was something he wanted to do. He climbed carefully over piles of fallen masonry. Once he stepped down into something that crunched and squashed beneath his feet and he set his teeth on edge to keep from retching. The street was not much different from the inside, bright sunlight and so much concrete to crawl over, but the unpleasantness was much, much worse. Everywhere there were strange, motionless lumps that Henry could not look at. Suddenly, he remembered Agnes. He should be trying to get to Agnes, shouldn't he? He remembered a poster he had seen that said, "In event of emergency do not use the telephone, your loved ones are as safe as you." He wondered about Agnes. He looked at the smashed automobiles, some with their four wheels pointing skyward like the stiffened legs of dead animals. He couldn't get to Agnes now anyway, if she was safe, then, she was safe, otherwise... of course, Henry knew Agnes wasn't safe. He had a feeling that there wasn't anyone safe for a long, long way, maybe not in the whole state or the whole country, or the whole world. No, that was a thought Henry didn't want to think, he forced it from his mind and turned his thoughts back to Agnes. wife, now that it was all said and done. It wasn't exactly her fault if people didn't have time to read nowadays. It was just that there was the house, and the bank, and the yard. There were the Jones' for bridge and the Graysons' for canasta and charades with the Bryants. And the television, the television Agnes loved to watch, but would never watch alone. He never had time to read even a newspaper. He started thinking about last night, that business about the newspaper. Henry had settled into his chair, quietly, afraid that a creaking spring might call to Agnes' attention the fact that he was momentarily unoccupied. He had unfolded the newspaper slowly and carefully, the sharp crackle of the paper would have been a clarion call to Agnes. He had glanced at the headlines of the first page. "Collapse Of ( 'nfcrncc Imminent." He didn't li.ui time to read the article. He turned to the second page. "Solon I'li'dicts War Only Days Away." Ur flipped through the pages faster, reading brief snatches here and there, afraid to spend too much time on any one item. On a back page was a brief article entitled, "Prehistoric Artifacts Unearthed In Yucatan". Henry smiled to himself and carefully folded the sheet of paper into fourths. That would be interesting, he would read all of it. Then it came, Agnes' voice. "Henrrreeel" And then she was upon him. She lightly flicked the paper out of his hands and into the fireplace. He saw the flames lick up and curl possessively around the unread article. Agnes continued, "Henry, tonight is the Jones' bridge night. They'll be here in thirty minutes and I'm not dressed yet, and here you are... reading She had emphasized the last word as though it were an unclean act. "Hurry and shave, you know how smooth Jasper Jones' chin always looks, and then straighten up this room." She glanced regretfully toward the fireplace. "Oh dear, that paper, the television schedule... oh well, after the Jones leave there won't be time for anything but the late-late movie and... Don't just sit there, Henry, hurrreeee!" Henry was hurrying now, but hurrying too much. He cut his leg on a twisted piece of metal that had oiui' been an automobile fender. He tie light about things like lockjaw .#(I gangrene and his hand tnanbled as he tied his pockethatulKerehief around the wound. In his mind, he saw the fire again, licking across the face of last night's newspaper. He thought that now he would have time to read all the newspapers he wanted to, only now there wouldn't be any more. That heap of rubble across the street had been the Gazette Building. It was terrible to think there would never be another up to date newspaper. Agnes would have been very upset, no television schedule. But then, of course, no television. He wanted to laugh but he didn't. That wouldn't have been fitting, not at all. He could see the building he was looking for now, but the silhouette was strangely changed. The great circular dome was now a ragged semi-circle, half of it gone, and one of the great wings of the building had fallen in upon itself. A sudden panic gripped Henry Bemis. What if they were all ruined, destroyed, every one of them? What if there wasn't a single one left? Tears of helplessness welled in his eyes as he painfully fought his way over and through the twisted fragments of the city. when it had been whole. He reme.mbered the many nights he had paused outside its wide and welcoming doors. He thought of the warm nights when the doors had been thrown open and he could see the people inside, see them sitting at the plain wooden tables with the stacks of books beside them. He used to think then, what a wonderful thing a public library was, a place where anybody, anybody at all could go in and read. He had been tempted to enter many times. He had watched the people through the open doors, the man in greasy work clothes who sat near the door, night after night, laboriously studying, a technical journal perhaps, difficult for him, but promising a brighter future. There had been an aged, scholarly gentleman who sat on the other side of the door, leisurely paging, moving his lips a little as he did so, a man having little time left, but rich in time because he could do with it as he chose. Henry had never gone in. He had started up the steps once, got almost to the door, but then he remembered Agnes, her questions and shouting, and he had turned away. He was going in now though, almost crawling, his breath coming in stabbing gasps, his hands tom and bleeding. His trouser leg was sticky red where the wound in his leg had soaked through the handkerchief. It was throbbing badly but Henry didn't care. He had reached his destination. Part of the inscription was still there, over the now doorless entrance. P-U-B-C L-I-B-R -- . The rest had been torn away. The place was in shambles. The shelves were overturned, broken, smashed, tilted, their precious contents spilled in disorder upon the floor. A lot of the books, Henry noted gleefully, were still intact, still whole, still readable. He was literally knee deep in them, he wallowed in books. He picked one up. The title was "Colspeare." Yes, he must read that, sometime. He laid it aside carefully. He picked up another. Spinoza. He tossed it away, seized another, and another, and still another. Which to read first... there were so many. He had been conducting himself a little like a starving man in a delicatessen -- grabbing a little of this and a little of that in a frenzy of enjoyment. But now he steadied away. From the pile about him, he selected one volume, sat comfortably down on an overturned shelf, and opened the book. Henry Bemis smiled. There was the rumble of complaining stone. Minute in comparison which the epic complaints following the fall of the bomb. This one occurred under one corner of the shelf upon which Henry sat. The shelf moved; threw him off balance. The glasses slipped from his nose and fell with a tinkle. He bent down, clawing blindly and found, finally, their smashed remains. A minor, indirect destruction stemming from the sudden, wholesale smashing of a city. But the only one that greatly interested Henry Bemis. He stared down at the blurred page before him. He began to cry. A ccording to Einstein, the history of physical science, has brought forth four great scientists -- Galileo, Nevnon, Maxwell and Faraday -- and Einstein is a man who should know. Of these, Galileo and Newton are probably the most famous. Perhaps Maxwell wielded the most, influence in his own time. But in the realm of things physical for the benefit of posterity, Faraday was by far the greatest. Faraday was born in London in the year #I -- long before General Electric and Westinghouse began gleaning likely young men from colleges and placing them in shiny laboratories. His father was a blacksmith, who became an invalid and died in Michael's youth leaving the boy's mother with no alternative but to take in boarders for the support of her family. They were deeply religious people, sober-minded and hardworking -- traits which remained ingrained in Faraday until his death. He began showing his talents quite early when, by chance, he was thrown into contact with books. This came about in his thirteenth year when he got work in the rooms of one Masquerier, a French refugee fleeing the wrath of Napoleon. Faraday's jobs were to keep Masquerier's shoes shined and his rooms orderly. This gave the youth an opportunity to browse through the Frenchman's library. He practically memorized two encyclopedias on electricity and digested Marcet'sConversations on Chemistry in great gobs. Now, young Faraday begged and borrowed, from his elder brother, the necessary admission fees to attend scientific lectures where ever and whenever he could find them. His activities are remindful of the present day teen-age fan who idolizes a current glamour personality, forms fan clubs and whatnot. Faraday formed no clubs, but he was not backward in contacting his idols. He wrote a letter to no less an august personage than Sir Joseph Banks, the President of the Royal Society. Sir Joseph neglected to answer, but that is of no great importance. Later, he would have been glad to visit Faradary in person. Young Faraday's persistence payed off, however, when he attended a lecture by the great Sir Humphry Davy -- with a pencil and a ream or two of notepaper under his arm. He took notes on Davy's lecture -- # pages of them. These, he had delivered to Davy along with a note stating that he, Faraday, wished to devote his life to science, and could Davy be of any assistance in the project. Davy, one of the most eccentric geniuses who ever lived, was also a warm human being. Davy replied to Faraday in the formal, stilted manner of the day: Sir: I am far from displeased with the proof you have given me of your confidence, and which displays great zeal, power of memory, and attention. I am obliged to go out of town, and will not be settled in town until the end of January. I will then see you at any time you wish. It would gratify me to be of any service to you. I wish it may be in my power. I am, sir, your obedient, humble servant, H. Davy This was not at all unlike a science fiction fan getting an invitation to drop around from Ray Bradbury or Robert Heinlein. You may rest assured that Faraday took full advantage of it. Davy could be of assistance, to the extent of getting Faraday a job as assistant in the laboratory of the Royal Institution. Thus did Davy, unknowingly, render his greatest service to humanity . So, at the age of twenty-one, Faraday became established at the Institution and Davy, no doubt delighted that his casual favor to a letter-writing youth had paid off in such rich material, took Faraday on a tour of Europe -- a grand tour, as Davy, the big name in the scientific fields of his time, did not travel without notice. Upon returning to England, Faraday became a lecturer in the Royal Institution, and was launched upon his life work. were engrossed in the mysteries of electricity. Faraday's keen mind cut like a knife into these mysteries. He suspected the close relationship between electricity and magnetism. None of the active scientists of the time had paid much attention to this avenue of research, although experimented in that direction. Orsted was the first to suggest that motion should be obtainable from the interaction of magnetism and electricity. Faraday drove relentlessly along these avenues, experimenting exhaustively, building upon the work of both Orsted and Ampere. Writing of his own work, Faraday said:... so all the usual attractions and repulsions of the magnetic needle by the conjunctive wire are deceptions, the motions being not attractions nor repulsions... but the result of a force in the wire which, instead of bringing the pole of the needle nearer to, or further from the wire, endeavors to make it move around it in a never ending circle and motion while the battery remains in action." From this statement of his observational results, Faraday invented the electric motor and established his immortality. But all was not sweetness and light. Faraday's sense of personal triumph was dulled by a reversal upon the part of Humphry Davy. The trouble sprang from Faradays inadvertent conflict with the work of Davy and Wollaston. Both these scientists were plodding along over the route Faraday covered with a speed which bespoke his genius. When Faraday's name was proposed for membership in the Royal Society it was -- Ironically enough -- Sir Humphry Davy who asked Faraday to withdraw. Faraday replied that it was beyond his power to withdraw, which was true, but Davy, as President of the august organization, had all the power he needed to block Faraday. However, in the year #, Faraday was elected to the Society and stood at last, on par in all respects, with all the greats of his time. He was fated to clash again with Davy, over the liquefaction of chlorine. Davy had discovered, beyond doubt, the knowledge that the solid substance obtained by exposing chlorine to low temperatures was not chlorine, but a combination of elements in which chlorine was no longer alone. Davy had not analyzed this combination however, and Faraday did. Also, he followed Davy's suggestion that heat, applied to the specimens, might bring inten sting results. Faraday applied the heat and came up with liquid chlorine. He then wrote a paper upon the experiment and the discovery -- a paper which passed through Davy's hands as President of the Society. Davy blandly appended a few paragraphs, taking full credit for the results. Faraday said nothing, biding his time. Later he wrote an account of all the investigators who had liquefied chlorine before either himself or Davy. All semblance of cordiality between Davy and Faraday now ruptured completely. Hard times fell upon the Society, and Faraday became occupied with the necessity of struggling along upon less money than previously. But this did not slow down his productivity. His papers on chemical investigations poured out in a broad stream. During the decade following #, when he made his great discovery relative to electro-magnetism, Faraday published little upon electricity, but his experiments went on. He made copious notes for current and future experience, indicating that while he concentrated upon chemical research, his heart had been given to the elusive witch of invisible power who mocked scientific brains with her vagaries. He began exhaustive investigations into the possibility of converting magnetism into electricity. The epochal discovery of electro-magnetic induction was the result. This discovery served as a pivotal point in scientific progress. This could have been enough for any man, but like a great scientist who came later, Thomas Alva Edison, Faraday felt a man's productivity should be terminated only by (Continued on page #) In order to make Izaak Walton's sport complete, there must be an angler, a fish, and some bait. All three existed on Arz but there was a question as to which was which. The Anglers of Arz By Roger Dee Marco Four's landfall on the moonless Altarian planet was a repetition of the two before it, a nine-hour intermission of drowsy, pastoral peace. Navigator Arthur Farrell -- it was his turn to stand watch -- was sitting at an open-side port with a magnoscanner ready; but in spite of his vigilance he had not exposed a film when the inevitable pre-dawn rainbow began to shimmer over the eastern ocean. Sunrise brought him alert with a jerk, frowning at sight of two pinkish, bipedal Arzian fishermen posted on the tiny coral islet a quarter-mile offshore, their blank triangular faces turned stolidly toward the beach. "They're at it again," Farrell called, and dropped to the mossy turf outside. "Roll out on the double! I'm going to magnofilm this!" Stryker and Gibson came out of their sleeping cubicles reluctantly, belting on the loose shorts which all three wore in the balmy Arzian climate. Stryker blinked and yawned as he let himself through the port, his fringe of white hair tousled and his naked paunch sweating. He looked, Farrell thought for the thousandth time, more like a retired cook than like the veteran commander of a Terran Colonies expedition. Gibson followed, stretching his powerfully-muscled body like a wrestler to throw off the effects of sleep. Gibson was linguist-ethnologist of the crew, a blocky man in his early thirties with thick black hair and heavy brows that shaded a square, humorless face. "Any sign of the squids yet?" he asked. "They won't show up until the dragons come," Farrell saiid. He adjusted the light filter of the magnoscanner and scowled at Stryker. "Lee, I wish you'd let me break up the show this time with a dis-beam. This butchery gets on my nerves." Stryker shielded his eyes with his hands against the glare of sun on water. "You know I can't do that, Arthur. These Arzians may turn out to be Fifth Order beings or higher, and under Terran Regulations our tampering with what may be a basic culture-pattern would amount to armed invasion. We'll have to crack that cackle-and-grunt language of theirs and learn something of their mores before we can interfere." Farrell turned an irritable stare on the incurious group of Arzians gathering, nets and fishing spears in hand, at the edge of the sheltering bramble forest. "What stumps me is their motivation," he said. "Why do the fools go out to that islet every night, when they must know damned well what will happen next morning?" Gibson answered him with an older problem, his square face puzzled. "For that matter, what became of the city I saw when we came in through the stratosphere? It must be a tremendous thing, yet we've searched the entire globe in the scouter and found nothing but water and a scattering of little islands like this one, all covered with bramble. It wasn't a city these pink fishers could have built, either. The architecture was beyond them baffled looks. The city had become something of a fixation with Gibson, and his dogged insistence -- coupled with an irritating habit of being right -- had worn their patience thin. "There never was a city here, Gib," Stryker said. "You dozed off while we were making planetfall, that's all." Gibson stiffened resentfully, but Farrell's voice cut his protest short. "Get set! Here they come!" Out of the morning rainbow dropped a swarm of winged lizards, twenty feet in length and a glistening chlorophyll green in the early light. They stooped like hawks upon the islet offshore, burying the two Arzian fishers instantly under their snapping, threshing bodies. Then around the outcrop the sea boiled whitely, churned to foam by a sudden uprushing of black, octopoid shapes. "The squids," Stryker grunted. "Right on schedule. Two seconds too late, as usual, to stop the slaughter." A barrage of barbed tentacles lashed out of the foam and drove into the melee of winged lizards. The lizards took the air at once, leaving behind three of their number who disappeared under the surface like harpooned seals. No trace remained of the two Arzian natives. "Aheat example of dog eat dog," Farrell said, snapping off the magnoscanner. "Do any of those beauties look like city-builders, Gib?" Chattering pink natives straggled past from the shelter of the thorn forest, ignoring the Earthmen, and lined the casting ledges along the beach to begin their day's fishing. "Nothing we've seen yet could f  !, r   I . iJ Bytfi-tnfuvi Ac: There were two pinkisk bipedal fishermen on the tiny islet  li built that city," Gibson said si iil)bornly. "But it's here someuliere, and I'm going to find it. Will either of you he using the scouter today?" Stryker threw up his hands. "I've a mountain of data to collate, and Arthur is off duty after standing watch last night. Help yourself, but you won't find anything." The scouter was a speeding dot on the horizon when FarreU crawled into his sleeping cubicle a short time later, leaving Stryker to mutter over his litter of notes. Sleep did not come to him at once; a vague sense of something overlooked prodded irritatingly at the back of his consciousness, but it was not until drowsiness had finally overtaken him that the discrepancy assumed definite form. He recalled then that on the first day of the Marco's planetfall one of the pink fishers had fallen from a casting ledge into the water, and had all but drowned before his fellows pulled him out with extended spear-shafts. Which meant that the fishers could not swim, else some would surely have gone in after him. And the Marco's crew had explored Arz exhaustively without finding any slightest trace of boats or of boat landings. The train of association completed itself with automatic logic, almost rousing Farrell out of his doze. "I'll be damned," he muttered. "No boats, and they don't swim. 'I'Ik'ii how the devil do they get out to that islet?" lie fell asleep with the paradox unresolved. over his records when Farrell came out of his cubicle and broke a packaged meal from the food locker. The visicom over the control board hummed softly, its screen blank on open channel. "Gibson found his lost city yet?" Farrell asked, and grinned when Stryker snorted. "He's scouring the daylight side now," Stryker said. "Arthur, I'm going to ground Gib tomorrow, much as I dislike giving him a direct order. He's got that phantom city on the brain, and he lacks the imagination to understand how dangerous to our assignment an obsession of that sort can be." Farrell shrugged. "I'd agree with you offhand if it weren't for Gib's bullheaded habit of being right. I hope he finds it soon, if it's here. I'll probably be standing his watch until he's satisfied." Stryker looked relieved. "Would you mind taking it tonight? I'm completely bushed after today's logging-" Farrell waved a hand and took up his magnoscanner. It was dark outside already, the close, soft night of a moonless tropical world whose moist atmosphere absorbed even starlight. He dragged a chair to the open port and packed his pipe, settling himself comfortably while Stryker mixed a nightcap before turning in. Later he remembered that Stryker dissolved a tablet in his glass, but at the moment it meant nothing. In a matter of minutes the older man's snoring drifted to him, a sound faintly irritating against the velvety hush outside. Farrell lit his pipe and turned to the inconsistencies he had uncovered. The Arzians did not swim, and without boats... It occurred to him then that there had been two of the pink fishers on the islet each morning, and the coincidence made him sit up suddenly, startled. Why two? Why not three or four, or only one? He stepped out through the open lock and paced restlessly up and down on the springy turf, feeling the ocean breeze soft on his face. Three days of dull routine logwork had built up a need for physical action that chafed his temper; he was intrigued and at the same time annoyed by the enigmatic relation that linked the Arzian fishers to the dragons and squids, and his desire to understand that relation was aggravated by the knowledge that Arz could be a perfect world for Terran colonization. That is, he thought wryly, if Terran colonists could stomach the weird custom pursued by its natives of committing suicide in pairs. He went over again the improbable drama of the past three mornings, and found it not too unnatural until he came to the motivation and the means of transportation that placed the Arzians in pairs on the islet, when his whole fabric of speculation fell into a tangled snarl of inconsistencies. He gave it up finally; how could any Earthman rationalize the outlandish compulsions that actuated so alien a race? He went inside again, and the sound of Stryker's muffled snoring fanned his restlessness. He made his decision abruptly, laying aside the magnoscanner for a hand-flash and a pocket-sized audicom unit which he clipped to the belt of his shorts. He did not choose a weapon because he saw no need for one. The torch would show him how the natives reached the outcrop, and if he should need help the audicom would summon Stryker. Investigating without Stryker's sanction was, strictly speaking, a breach of Terran Regulations, but -- "Damn Terran Regulations," he muttered. "I've got to know." Farrell snapped on the torch at the edge of the thorn forest and entered briskly, eager for action now that he had begun. Just inside the edge of the bramble he came upon a pair of Arzians curled up together on the mossy ground, sleeping soundly, their triangular faces wholly blank and unrevealing. He worked deeper into the underbrush and found other sleeping couples, but nothing else. There were no humming insects, no twittering night-birds or scurrying rodents. He had worked his way close to the center of the island without further discovery and was on the point of turning back, disgusted, when something bulky and powerful seized him from behind. A sharp sting burned his shoulder, wasp-like, and a sudden overwhelming lassitude swept him into a darkness deeper than the Arzian night. His last conscious thought was not of his own danger, but of Stryker -- asleep and unprotected behind the Marco's open port...  . H e was standing erect when he woke, his back to the open sea and a prismatic glimmer of h'# I I' il iwn rainbow shining on the u .ill I Ik hue him. For a moment he was totally disoriented; then from the corner of an eye he caught the innkish blur of an Arzian fisher standing beside him, and cried out hoarsely in sudden panic when he ti H 'd to turn his head and could not. He was on the coral outcropping offshore, and except for the involuntary muscles of balance and respiration his body was paralyzed. The first red glow of sunrise blurred the reflected rainbow at his feet, but for some seconds his shuttling mind was too busy to consider the danger of predicament. Whatever brought me here anesthetized me first, he thought. That sting in my shoulder was like a hypo needle. Panic seized him again when he remembered the green flyinglizards; more seconds passed before he gained control of himself, sweating with the effort. He had to get help. If he could switch on the audicom at his belt and call Stryker... He bent every ounce of his will toward raiang his right hand, and failed. His arm was like a limb of lead, its inertia too great to budge. He relaxed the effort with a groan, sweating again when he saw a fiery halfdisk of sun on the water, edges blurred and distorted by tiny surface ripples. On shore he could see the Marco Four resting between thorn forest and beach, its silvered sides glistening with dew. The port was still open, and the empty carrier rack in the bow told him that Gibson had not yet returned with the scouter. He grew aware then that sensation was returning to him slowly, that the cold surface of the audicom unit at his hip -- unfelt before -- was pressing against the inner curve of his elbow. He bent his will again toward motion; this time the arm tensed a little, enough to send hojje flaring through him. If he could put pressure enough against the stud... The tiny click of its engaging sent him faint with relief. "Stryker!" he yelled. "Lee, roll out -- Stryker!" The audicom hummed gently, without answer. He gathered himself for another shout, and recalled with a chill of horror the tablet Stryker had mixed into his nightcap the night before. Worn out by his work, Stryker had made certain that he would not be easily disturbed. The flattened sun-disk on the water brightened and grew rounder. Above its reflected glare he caught a flicker of movement, a restless suggestioa of flapping wings. H e tried again. "Stryker, help me! I'm on the islet!" The audicom crackled. The voice that answered was not Stryker's, but Gibson's. "Farrell! What the devil are you doing on that butcher's block?" Farrell fought down an Insane desire to laugh. "Never mind that -- get here fast, Gib! The flyinglizards -- " He broke off, seeing for the first time the octopods that ringed the outcrop just under the surface of the water, waiting with barbed tentades spread and yellow eyes studying him glassily. He heard the unmistakable flapping of wings behind and above him then, and thought with shock-born lucidity; # wanted a backstage look at this show, and now I'm one of the cast. The scouter roared in from the west across the thorn forest, flashing so close above his head that he felt the wind of its passage. Almost of its emergency bow jets as Gibson met the lizard swarm head on. Gibson's voice came tinnily from the audicom. "Scattered them for the moment, Arthur -- blinded the whole crew with the exhaust, I think. Stand fast, now. I'm going to pick you up." The scouter settled on the outcrop beside Farrell, so close that the hot wash of its exhaust gases scorched his bare legs. Gibson put out thick brown arms and hauled him inside like a straw man, ignoring the native. The scouter darted for shore with Farrell lying across Gibson's knees in tfie cockpit, his head hanging half overside. Farrell had a last dizzy glimpse of the islet against the rush of green water below, and felt his shaky laugh of relief stick in his throat. Two of the octopods were swimming strongly for shore, holding the rigid Arzian native carefully above water between them. "Gib," Farrell croaked. "Gib, can you risk a look back? I think I've gone mad." The scouter swerved briefly as Gibson looked back. "You're all right, Arthur. Just hang on tight. I'll explain everything when we get you safe in the Marco." Farrell forced himself to relax, more relieved than alarmed by the painful pricking of returning sensation. "I might have known it, damn you," he said. "You found your lost city, didn't you?" Gibson sounded a little disgusted, as if he were still angry with himself over some private stupidity. "I'd have found it sooner if I'd had any brains. It was under water, of course." routed Stryker out of his cubicle and mixed drinks around, leaving Farrell comfortably relaxed in the padded control chair. The paralysis was still wearing off slowly, easing Farrell's fear of being permanently disabled. "We never saw the city from the scouter because we didn't go high enough," Gibson said. "I realized that finally, remembering how they used high-altitude blimps during the First Wars to spot submarines, and when I took the scouter up far enough there it was, at the ocean bottom -- a city to compare with anything men ever built." Stryker stared. "A marine city? What use would sea-creatures have for buildings?" "None," Gibson said. "I think the city must have been built ages ago -- by men or by a manlike race, judging from the architecture -- and was submerged later by a sinking of land masses that killed off the original builders and left Arz nothing but an oversized archipelago. The squids took over then, and from all appearances they've developed a culture of their own." "I don't see it," Stryker complained, shaking his head. "The pink fishers -- " "Are cattle, or less," Gibson finished. "The octopods are the dominant race, and they're so far above Fifth Order that we're completely out of bounds here. Under Terran Regulations we can't colonize Arz. It would be armed invasion." "Invasion of a squid world?" Farrell protested, baffled. "Why should surface colonization conflict with an undersea culture, Gib? Why couldn't we share the planet?" "Because the octopods own the islands too, and keep them policed," Gibson said patiently. "They even own the pink fishers. It was one of the squid-people, making a dryland canvass of his preserve here to pick a couple of victims for this morning's show, that carried you oflf last night." "Behold a familiar pattern shaping up," Stryker said. He laughed suddenly, a great irrepressible bellow of sound. "Arz is a squid's world, Arthur, don't you see? And hke most civilized peoples, they're sportsmen. The flying-lizards are the game they hunt, and they raise the pink fishers for -- " Farrell swore in astonishment. "Then those poor devils are put out there deliberately, like worms on a hook -- angling in reverse! No wonder I couldn't spot their motivation!" Gibson got up and sealed the port, shutting out the soft morning breeze. "Colonization being out of the question, we may as well move on before the octopods get curious enough about us to make trouble. Do you feel up to the acceleration, Arthur?" Farrell and Stryker looked at each other, grinning. Farrell said; "You don't think I want to stick here and be used for bait again, do you?" He and Stryker were still grinning over it when Gibson, unamused, blasted the Marco Four free of Arz. (Continued from page #) death. He drove on and on with the heroic patience, triumphs, and disappointments which are the everyday lot of the inquiring mind. Nor was he cut off early, as were temporaries. He died quietly, at the age of seventy-five years, leaving behind a heritage for which the world will be forever grateful. No conceivable force could penetrate Terri's shield. Yet he was defenseless. By Gordon M. IDickson a bit obvious. Terri Mac saw through it before he had taken half a dozen steps into the apartment. A light flush staining his high cheekbones. "This is ridiculous," he said. The light chatter ceased. Cocktail glasses were set down on various handy tables and ledges; and all faces in the room turned toward a man in his late fifties who sat propped up invalid-wise on pillows in a chair in a corner of the room. "The Comptroller is perspicacious," said the old man, agreeably, waving one hand in a casual manner. "On your way, children." And the people present smiled and nodded. Quite as if it were an ordinary leave-taking, they pushed past Terri Mac and filed out the door. Even the blonde, Terri had picked up at the embassy ball and who had brought him here, strolled off casually, but in a decidedly less drunken fashion than she had exhibited earlier in the evening. "Sit down," said the old man. Terri Mac did so, gazing searchingly at the skinny frame and white eyebrows in an unsuccessful effort to connect him with something in memory. "This is ridiculous," he repeated. "Really?" The old man smiled benignly. "And why so?" "Why -- " the situation was so obvious that Terri fumbled -- a little at a loss for words. "Obviously you intend some form of coercion, or else you would have come to me along recognized channels. And any thought of coercion is obviously -- well, ridiculous." "Why?" "Why? You senile old fool, don't you know that Tm shielded? Don't you know all government officials from the fifth class up wear complete personal shields that are not only crackproof but contain all the necessary elements to support life independently within the shield for more than twenty hours? Don't you know that I'll be missed in two hours at the most and tracked down in less than sixty minutes more? Are you crazy?" The old man chuckled, rubbing dry hands together. He said. "I'm shielded too. You can't get at me. And now the room's shielded. You can't get out of it." Terri stared at him. The initial shock was passing. His own statements anent the completeness of his protection had brought back confidence, and his natural coolness was returning. "What do you want?" he asked, eyeing the other narrowly. "Pleasure of your company," said the old man. "There are some very strong connections between us. Yes, very strong. We must get to know each other personally." had misinterpreted the situation. Relief came, mixed with a certain amount of chagrin at the way in which he allowed himself to show alarm. He had looked ridiculous. He leaned back in the chair and allowed a note of official hauteur and annoyance to creep into his voice. "I see," he said. "You want something?" The old man nodded energetically. "I do. Indeed I do." "And you think you have some kind of a bargaining tool that is useful but might not be so if it became known to official channels." "Well -- " said the old man cautiously. "Don't waste my time," interrupted Terri, harshly. "I'm not an ordinary politician. No man who works his way up to the fifth level of the government is. I didn't get to where I am today by pussy-footing around and I haven't the leisure to spend on people who do. Now what do you want?" The other cackled. "Now, what do you think?" he said, putting one finger to his nose cunningly. "You are old," Terri said. "And therefore cautious. Consequently you would not risk trying to force something from me, but are almost certainly trying to sell me something. Now what do I want? Not the usual things, certainly. Within my position I have all the material things a man could want ; and within my shield I enjoy complete immunity. No one but the Central Bureau, itself, can crack this shield. And no one but they can prevent the conditioned reflex that stops my heart if for some reason the shield should be broached. I have a hold on every man beneath me that prevents him from knifing me in the back. There could be only one thing that I want that you could give me -- " he leaned forward, staring into the deep-pouched eyes -- "and that is a means of getting at the man above me. Am I right?" "No," said the old man. Terri stiffened. "No?" he echoed in angry incredulity. Their eyes locked. For a long time they held, and at last Terri looked away. The old man sighed -- sipped noisily from a drink on the table beside his chair. "Wait!" said Terri. To his own surprise, his voice was eager, even a little timorous in its hopefulness. "Wait. I've got it. There will be a test. There always is a test every time a man moves up. His superiors watch him when he doesn't suspect it. It will be that way for me when I am ready for the fourth level. And you have some kind of advance information. You know what the test will be. Maybe you know the man who will administer it. You want to sell me this information." The other said nothing. "Well," Terri spread his hands openly. "I am interested. I'll buy. What do you want. Money? A favor? Protection?" "No." "No?" Terri shouted, starting up from his chair. "What do you mean by no? Can't you say anything but 'no'?" A rage possessed him. He flung himself forward two furious steps to stand threateningly over the aged figure. "You doddering idiot! Say what you want, and quickly! My two hours are nearly up. I'll be missed. They'll be here in a few minutes -- the Bureau Guards. They'll crack the room shield. They'll rescue me. And they'll take you into custody. To be questioned. To be executed. At my order. Do you understand? Your life depends on me." After a little, the old man chuckled again. "Yes," he muttered, in a high-pitched old voice. "That's the way it'll be." Terri stared at him. "You don't seem to understand. You're going to die." "Oh yes," said the old man, nodding his head indulgently. "I'll die. But I'm an old man. I'd die anyway in a year or so -- maybe in a day or so. But for you -- for a young man like you -- the up and coming young governmental with everything to lose -- " he leered slyly at Terri. "Your death won't be so easy for you to take." "I die?" echoed Terri, stupefied. "But I'm not going to die. They're coming to rescue me." "Oh, are they?" said the old man, ironically. "Of course!" said Terri. "Of course, why shouldn't they?" The old man winked one faded eye portentously. "Fine young man," he said. "Up Never a thought for the people he trampled on the way up the ladder. Dear me, no." "What do you mean?" said Terri. The old eyes, looking up suddenly, pierced him. "Do you remember Kilaren?" "K-Kilaren?" "Kilaren," recited the old man as if quoting from a newspaper. "The beautiful young secretary of a provincial governor whose lecherous and unnatural pursuit drove her to suicide. So that one day to escape the governor, she jumped or fell from a high window. And the people of the province, who had for a long time heard ugly stories and rumors, finally mobbed the office and lynched the governor, hanging him from the same window from which the girl had jumped. They said that even the fall had not spoiled her beauty, but that was probably false." The old man's words dwindled away into silence. I what of it?" said Terri. I I . it's that to do with me?" "Why, you were there. You were the governor's aide, and when the mob had gone home and feeling had slackened off, you stepped into the gap and seized up the reins of government, handling matters so skillfully that you were immediately promoted to an under-post at Government City." "What of it?" "Why it was all your doing," replied the other, in a mildly reproving voice, "the rumors, the stories, the mob, even the suicide. Poor Kilaren -- a pitiful pawn in your ruthless game to eliminate the governor in your mad dash up the ladder." "I never touched her!" cried Terri, his voice cracking. "I swear it." "Who said you did? The type of mind that stoops to murder would never have gotten you this far. But you were the one who hired her, knowing the governor's tendencies. You were the one that gave her work that kept her, night after night, alone with the man. You preyed upon her fear of losing her job. You threw the sin in her face after she had committed it. You told her what she might have been, and what she was, and what she would be. You broke her, day after day. In the sterile privacy of the office you reviled her, scorned her, brought her to believe that she was what she was not, a creature of filth and dishonor. You blocked off all avenues of escape but the one that led through one high window. You killed her!" "No!" "Yes!" T erri brought his quivering hands together and clenched them in his lap. He stared at the old man. "Who are you?" "I was a friend of hers. We lived in the same hotel-apartment. She had no family. I believe you knew that when you hired her." "I see," said Terri. He drew a long, deep, shuddering breath, and leaned back in the chair. "So that's the story," he said, his voice strengthening, "I might have known it. Blackmail. There are always fools that want to try blackmail." "No," said the old man. "Not Blackmail, Comptroller. I want your life." Terri laughed shortly, contemptuously. "No knowledge that you have can threaten my life." "They will come," said the old man, leaning wearily back against his cushions. "As you said, the Bureau Guards will come; and I think I shall kill myself when I hear them starting to crack the shield around this room. They will come in and find you with a dead man. What will you tell them, Terri?" "Tfell them? Anything I choose. They won't question me." "No. The guards won't. But the Bureau will. How can they raise a man to the fourth level when there is a two-hour mystery in his backr ground? They will want to know what you were doing here." "I was kidnaped," said Terri. "By whom? Can you prove it? And why?" "I've been held a prisoner here." "By a dead man? No, no, Terri. The circumstances are suspicious. You walk away from the embassy under your own power. You disappear and are found in a shielded room with a man who has committed suicide. This must be explained, and in the end you will have to tell them the truth." "And what if I do?" said Terri, truculently. "But the truth is so fantastic, Terri. So uncheckable. I am dead, and I am the only one who could have supported your story. These people who were here when you came in are common actors. They have no idea why I wanted you decoyed here. These are my rooms. And there is no obvious connection between me and the dead Kilaren. And perhaps I will decide to live just long enough to denounce you as a traitor when they enter." Ashen-faced, Terri stared. "The Bureau will have to question you. They will clamp a block on your mind so that you can't operate the reflex that stops your heart. And they will question you over and over again, because the Bureau cannot afford to take chances. You will go into a private hell of your own, Terri Mac. You will tell the story of your own evil to that girl over and over again, pleading to be believed. And they will not believe you. And in the end they will kill you, just to be on the safe side. Because, you see, you might have been doing something traitorous in these two shielded hours." Terri's head bobbed limply, like a drunken man's. He made one last effort. "Why?" he said. "Why do you do this? Your life. For a girl who was no connection to you?" The old man folded his hands. "I was a little like your governor," he said. "We all have our sins. I loved Kilaren and the shock of her death wrecked my health." He cocked his head suddenly on one side. "Listen," he said. From beyond the clos('d door of the room, a high-pitched humming was barely audible. It grew in volume, going up the scale. Terri leaped to his feet; and for the space of a couple of seconds, he lunged first this way then that, like a wild animal beating against its trap. Then, as if all will had at last gone out of him, he stopped in the middle of the room and closed his eyes. For a fraction of a moment he stood there, before a faint convulsion seixed him and he fell. With a faint smile on his face, the old man reached out to a hidden switch and cut the shield about the room. Uniformed guards tumbled through the door, to pull up in dismay at the sight of the body on the floor. "I'm sorry," said the old man, "I must have turned the shield on by mistake. I was trying to signal someone. The Comptroller seems to have had a heart attack." LunaticDetector cal machine used widely in analyzing mental and physical illnesses. Essentially, it is nothing more than a very sensitive amplifier fitted with electrodes which, placed against the patient's skull, are capable of picking up the minute "brain-waves" to which the electrical activity of the brain constantly gives rise. These brain waves may be reproduced on an oscilloscope like that of a television tube, or they may be photographed, or they may be charted on graph paper. Medical investigators admit the usefulness of the electroencephalograph but wonder why it can't be used as a "predictor" as well as an analyzer. Detailed study resulting from this suggestion has determined that, not only can the electroencephalograph analyze mental flaws, but it can also detect them in advance of their occurrence! The uses of this, of course, suggest themselves automatically. How all-important it is to detect the beginnings of a mental crack-up in individuals who have great responsibility, particularly where lives of people are concerned! Think of what it would mean as a safety factor regarding bus drivers, engineers, airline pilots, executives, or any others who hold in their hands the lives and fortunes of hundreds of people at a time! Such persons should be exposed to encephalographic examination in order to sense or detect the slightest disturbance which might lead them to crack-up while on the job. It is not a matter of determining sanity or insanity ; rather it is purely a matter of detecting strong emotional disturbances which, appearing clearly upon the encephalograph's screen, aid in the prediction of emotional behavior and, possibly, help avert terrible accidents or otber tragedies. Nereid, Satellite of Neptune N ereid, the second Moon of cold, remote Neptune, was discovered only two years ago but already astronomers have managed to plot out its not conventional orbit. The first Moon of Neptune, familiar old Triton, circles the planet at a reasonable distance of about two hundred and twenty thousand miles and in all other respects seems representative of the general system of satellites throughout the Solar System. But Nereid is another matter. The orbit of this little moon apto Neptune and recedes as far as times as long as it is wide, giving an elliptical effect, much like that of a cometary orbit rather than a satellite's. Triton is about the same size as our own Moon, but Nereid has to be different even here. It is only about a fifteenth as massive as Luna. Nereid might be characterized as "a little squib rotating in a drunken orbit." No technical reasons have yet been divined to account for this extreme eccentricity. The formation of such a perverse orbit may indicate that the satellite is a captured sub-planet or it may imply some possibility of collision. Any such theorization awaits much closer observation of the actual path, since Nereid takes not quite an Earthyear to circle its mother planet. Chain Of Waves of newspapers all over the country, so obscure that most readers scarcely noticed it, was an important announcement, an announcement which shows just how far technology has jumped ahead. The micro-wave link between the East and West Coasts has been completed! The first means of communication to use it was the telephone, but the prime purpose of the relay link is, of course, television. The micro-wave ultra-high-frequency radio relaying system is a miracle of applied electronics. All across the country, at intervals of about a hundred miles, are erected two-hundred-foot towers of concrete (to overcome line-ofsight problems) topped by large hornshaped antennas. Each tower is a remotely controlled, automatically operated self-contained receiving and broadcasting station. A program originating in New York travels via these tight beams of high-frequency radio waves from tower to tower where, each time, it is picked up, amplified and rebroadcast, all in a fractional thousandth of a second ! The system is highly practical, because the high-frequency radio waves carrying the television impulses are not just broadcast in a circular pattern. Instead, the tremendously directional antennas, like gridded horns, about ten feet on a side, focus these beams into extremely narrow searchlights, sending them in a straight line to the next tower, where the process is repeated. Some measure of the extreme directivity of the beams can be got from the fact that each tower broadcasts its beam with a power of only one-half watt! When interplanetary travel is finally accomplished, it is a certainty that communication willtake place through micro-waves. An ordinary beam traversing interplanetary space would spread out in far too random a manner, so that no transmitters conceivable could possibly supply the energy But micro-waves using "microwatts" of power could do this, and hence interplanetary communication over "tight-beam" systems is perfectly feasible. The step from spanning a country to spanning space is easy. The Signal Corps people who bounced radio waves off the Moon were using broad beams in comparison -- which accounts for the enormous amount of power they had to use in the radar apparatus. But, given micro-waves with tight-beam antennas, they'll do the same thing on a flashlight cell's power! . -- Charles Recour I I Dear Editor: Your definition (of science fiction ) as delivered to Marion Fried via the Chat with the Editor -- I disagree with you. I think that the science fiction story IS a basic. It is distinctly different from any other type of fiction. To fit into your basic types, I would loosely put in the problem story. Real science fiction does contain a problem, a problem extrapolated from today's science. And when I say "science" I don't mean only physics or chemistry, but biology, botany, psychiatry, etc. The story then is made up of resolving the problem, or the central character's seeing the problem and finding his place in it. It differs from the ordinary problem story (example: detective "whodunit' story) in that survival is a part of the story. That is, it moves from the philosophical to the actual (actual in relation to the characters) and has a life-or-death meaning. If your definition of a science fiction story is something that is only a kind of background then I can expect IF to publish only those stories dealing with jungles and swords and mortgages altered semantically to "extraterrestrial fastnesses", "portable energy weapons", and "planetary rights". I still think stf is written around a problem, an extrapolated problem. The best way to say it might be: Science fiction Is "What would happen if -- ". You Must have the same beliefs in mind yourself, but got a little muddled semantically while trying to find a deft, one sentence meaning. You named the magazine IF. "If" is what makes science fiction possible. If there were no "If" there would be only ordinary things, no worlds to conquer, no atom to smash, no driving, overwhelming force that shouts down the blazing corridors of time or whispers in the deep of the night: "What would happen if -- " And never mind defining science fiction. Just keep serving it to us. It's largely subjective anyway... -- Dave Hammond Runnemede, New Jersey Dear sirs: Ezra Shaw must have polished off a copy of the "Golden Bough" and decided, without further ado, to set up shop as an anthropologist. His explanation of the cave drawings is mistaken as it is common. Shaw represents the old Animal Magic theory as if it were an agreed upon fact, and actually it is nothing of the sort. At one time it was supposed that all "uncivilized" art had to do with superstition. The western mind could not admit even the possibility of genuine art being produced outside of our own culture matrix. Now we know enough about socalled primitive art to differentiate between types... Though there is "magic" art, it is almost without exception characterized by abstraction, symbolism, and other forms of distortion. Mysticism never expresses itself in realism. The realism of the cave paintings indicates an entirely different sort of mind than that which practices mac. The men who drew those pictures were realists. It is not necessary to investigate other cultures to find the truth of the statement that religious art is always distortionistic. The history of art in our own culture bears this out fully. True, many artists who worked on religious projects were realistic in the extreme, but a study of their lives reveals that they themselves were far from "true believers". True religious art is characterized by the complex surrealism of Bosch or the elongated and warped figures of El Greco... or the African sculpture from which Picasso developed Cubism. Realism is typified by Thomas Eakins, the American who studied anatomy to the point of cutting up bodies. Religious artists are not interested in portraying things as they are, they That is what convinces me that the cave art had little or nothing to do with magic. Why did they work, way back in those days, at such great difficulty? Why does an artist of today go to such trouble to use only the best materials. To make the picture last, of course. The cave man has certainly been successful, if that was his aim. I realize that I am being just as dogmatic in my statements as the "magic" school of thought represented in Shaw's article, but I feel that while his position rests solely on prejudice, mine rests upon obvious observable fact which appears to hold true for all art known. What could be more obvious than that a superstitious painter would paint supernatural pictures, and that only a realist would strive for realism? Our picture of these cave artists needs a good going over with the spotlight of factual analysis, and when, if ever, the results come in, I feel quite sure that those cave artists will be acknowledged as people in the history of mankind. -- Ray Nelson, Chicago, #. Dear Sir; While I am not qualified to criticize the whole article (July Science Briefs)... the presence of one paragraph which I know to be completely erroneous casts serious doubt upon the rest. Consider the following: "The statuary which is today produced by the witch doctors of many of the African and Pacific island tribes..." This statement contains serious distortions. ( I ) In West Africa, most "statuary" is made by wood-carvers, ironworkers, and brass-casters, none of 'linin are "witch doctors" in any  use of the term, and most of whom are full-time specialists in (heir trades -- perhaps professions would be a better word. (#) Throughout the Pacific, wood-carving, the dominant medium for statuary, is done mainly by part-time specialists, although nowhere in the Pacific is specialization as highly developed as it is in Africa. (#) The term "witch doctor" is a term which is no longer part of the vocabulary of anyone with any anthropological training. Having, as it does, derogatory connotations, it is a decidedly misleading term to apply to the native religious specialists of Africa, the Pacific, or any other part of the primitive world. The last point merits some amplification. First of all, while Africans usually believe in witches, those who are believed to be practicing witchcraft are almost invariably outside the conventional religious system of the community. In addition, most African religious ciflts have a degree of sophistication, and the belief systems a reasonable enough inner logic to permit them to be ranked with any of the pantheistic systems of the classical world. We would not apply the term "witch doctor" to priests of the classical pantheistic religions -- or, for that matter, to priests of the Hindu cults -- and there is no more reason to do so in the case of the African religious functionaries. Ree.irding this "statuary," Shaw says: "Invariably obscene and repulsive, the images depicted have unusually fat bodies, with the sexual features exaggerated, and faces blank." This statement conforms exactly to a popular stereotype, and is completely false -- and I say this in full realization of the fact that it is, in part at least, an aesthetic judgment. It is certainly not invariably true, and I doubt that it is true as a whole of more than a few isolated cases. I have seen some lifesized brass-cast heads from Nigeria  which are of considerable age, and  which rival in beauty and sensitivf ity of treatment the best of classic j Greek sculpture. These are admittedly exceptional -- they are not in conformity with the general tradition of West African Art. But the best of West African brass-casting and wood-carving is, by anyone's standards, artistry of a high order. The fact that the artistic conventions which it observes differ from our own should not blind us to the skill and artistry that can be found ' in primitive art. I am, therefore, at a loss conj ceming the identity of the "authori ties" whose judgment it is that "... these figurines are completely lacking in the qualities which make us rate the work of the cave man : painters and draftsmen with the ' best that has ever been done." I'm  sure that were Shaw to examine any significant quantity of African i and Pacific art -- with the eye of a critic rather than that of a layman -- he would readily agree that his "authorides" had not done so themselves before forming their judgments. -- Edward E.LeClair, Jr. American Museum of Natural Histor'f would happen to Earth under a cooling sun instead of an expanding one. With expiring solar energy, our planet would become a of life. Here, the artist envisions New York harbor under such conditions. such fascinating features as Adventures in Words, Your Favorite Quiz, Great Ncknes You Should Know and other delightful brain teasers... For this wonderful excursion into puzzle pleasure, just ask your nearest news dealer. It's only # cents -- at all newsstands!  .v WV directed by base radio control and radar, leave their launching racks in pursuit of a foreign craft which has failed to acknowledge radio communications and identify itself. With their nose cameras they will send a televised image of the craft back to the defense base. If the craft is hostile, the missiles are directed to destroy it. Time: dawn. First hard sun rays hit crater peaks; Earth still lights base. Now turn to inside back cover. All Stories New and Complete Cover: Landing on Deirnus By Ken Fagg IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, In. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c. a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue on sale March #th # I #  #  # j # I # r #  #I I #  # I #  #  Moon I fiction magazine called IF was born and appeared quietly and unheralded on the newsstands. With this issue, that magazine is one year old. Actually, this is the first issue of the second year. Now, in the light of other magazines with tenures of # or # or even five years, a first birthday isn't particularly important. But it is somewhat significant in the case of IF, because it seems to indicate -- after a year of slow, steady growth -- that the infant is going to live. During the past year we have worked hard to make each succeeding issue one of improvement. We have tried to secure better stories, better artwork, better editorial effort in producing a more interesting, more attractive science fiction magazine for your entertainment. And when we compare Volume #, Number I with Volume #, Number #, we feel a certain amount of satisfaction. Not that the ultimate has been achieved by a long, long shot. Not that this issue represents the best we can do. But because we have learned and progressed with each succeeding issue and feel that this issue is an improvement over the first six. And the fact that circulation has responded to such nourishment seems to indicate that you , too, think it is improving. So this is IF's first birthday, and don't think we haven't walked the floor at night with it, incurred some sweet headaches and magnificent hangovers. We've had some wonderful fun, too. Also -- we've found that a lot of swell people were willing to help with the feeding, the burping and diaper changing. Artists and writers and agents have printers have been patient and understanding; the engravers always ready with a helping hand ; the paper makers always prompt; some of the best circulation guys to ever handle a magazine have bent over backwards to put the baby out where you can see it; and you, sweet reader, have been indulgent to plunk down thirty-five cents in coin of the realm to take a look at the brat... All in all, a lot of nice people have had a hand in helping the infant IF learn to walk. Another year of this sort of attention and the kid'll be climbing fences! stories in IF's young life is appearing in the next issue. It's called Jupiter Five and was written by Arthur C. Clarke, Chairman of the British Interplanetary Society. One of the world's authorities on the subject, Mr. Clarke has a month, friendly style of writing that lends to a space adventure the easy familiarity of a walk around the block. His Exploration of Space was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection last fall. Ken Fagg, cover artist for this issue, is (as this is written) reading the manuscript of Jupiter Five for a cover idea. Mr. Fagg, who recently caught the science fiction bug, is now a leading artist in other fields and it's a pretty safe bet he'll soon be among the top artists in science fiction. portunity to meet personally a large representation of the real fandom of science fiction -- a bunch of guys and gals who got to Chicago via train, bus, plane, auto, boat and pogo-stick to attend the #th World Science Fiction Convention. And I was really amazed to see the hundreds of young folks so keenly (and rabidly) interested in science fiction. I had the pleasant experience of talking with quite a few and I found each one eager, alert, and wise as to what was happening in the world of science fiction. Many of them could tell you what illustration appeared on what page of such and such magazine in an issue that must have been published while they were about the same age as IF. They knew the latest stories, and the authors, when and where they appeared, and would tell you, without mincing words, what they thought of them. At the auction, a lot of them hocked the family homestead to take home a cover painting, an interior illustration or a manuscript. These young people (I'm not including the pros, the editors, agents, authors, etc.) came them saved their own hard-earned cash for a year in order to make the trip. Unlike a business or political convention, they didn't stand to make money on this deal, they did it because they were crazy about science fiction. One who seemed to me to typify the spirit of the convention is a gangling, blond, bespectacled young man of nineteen named Jim Webbert. He is one of those who had been feeding the piggy bank for a year in order to make the trip -- and believe me, brother, he wasn't going to miss a trick. He knew more about what was going on and where than the whole staff of house dicks ; he was up and down the hotel more than the elevators, and he could tell practically anybody what kind of cigarette he smoked, whether he preferred tea to coffee, and what his particular niche in science fiction happened to be. Jim lives in Salt Lae City, Utah, is a senior in college, where he is majoring in chemical engineering, and during the summer he has been working as a meter reader to earn expenses. While in high school he started reading science fiction -- which decided him on chemical engineering as a career. I don't think it requires much of a prophet to predict he'll go a long way. So I'm glad I met these young people who represent science fiction fandom. I'm glad they live in America. I'm glad I'm working on a science fiction magazine. -- jlq You're all alone in a deserted city. You walk down an empty street, yearning for the sight of one living face -- one moving figure. T hen you see a man on a corner and you know your terror has only begun. plodding knee-deep through the thick stuff of nightmares. There was no definite line between the dream-state and wakefulness. Only a dawning knowledge that he was finally conscious and would have to do something about it. He opened his eyes, but this made no difference. The blackness remained. The pain in his head brightened and he reached up and found the big lump they'd evidently put on his head for good measure -- a margin of safety. They must have been prudent people, because the bang on the head had hardly been necessary. The spiked drink which they had given him would have felled an ox. He remembered going down into the darkness after drinking it, and of knowing what it was. He remembered the helpless feeling. It did not worry him now. He was a philosophical person, and the fact he was still alive cancelled out the drink and its result. He thought, with savor, of the chestnut-haired girl who had watched him take the drink. She had worn a very low bodice, and that was where his eyes had been at the last moment -- on the beautiful, tanned breasts -- until they'd wavered and puddled into a blur and then into nothing. The chestnut-haired girl had been nice, but now she was gone and there were more pressing problems. He sat up, his hands behind him at the ends of stiff arms clawing into long-undisturbed dust and filth. His movement stirred the dust and it rose into his nostrils. He straightened and banged his head against a low ceiling. The pain made him sick for a minute and he sat down to regain his senses. He cursed the ceiling, as a matter of course, in an agonized whisper. Ready to move again, he got onto his hands and knees and crawled cautiously forward, exploring as he went. His hand pushed through cobwebs and found a rough, cement wall. He went around and around. It was all cement -- all solid. Hell! They hadn't sealed him up in this place! There had been a way in so there had to be a way out. He went around again. Then he tried the ceiling and found the opening -- a wooden trap covering a four-by-four hole -- covering it snugly. He pushed the trap away and daylight streamed in. He raised himself up until he was eyelevel with a discarded shaving cream jar lying on the bricks of an alley. He could read the trade mark on the jar, and the slogan: "For the Meticulous Man". He pulled himself up into the alley. As a result of an orderly childhood, he replaced the wooden trap and kicked the shaving cream jar against a garbage can. He rubbed his chin and looked up and down the alley. It was high noon. An uncovered sun blazed down to tell him this. And there was no one in sight. the nearer mouth of the alley. He had been in that hole a long time, he decided. This conviction came from his hunger and the heavy growth of beard he'd sprouted. Twenty-four hours -- maybe longer. That mickey must have been a lulu. He walked out into the cross street. It was empty. No people -- no cars parked at the curbs -- only a cat washing its dirty face on a tenement stoop across the street. He looked up at the tenement windows. They stared back. There was an empty, deserted look about them. The cat flowed down the front steps of the tenement and away toward the rear and he was truly alone. He rubbed his harsh chin. Must be Sunday, he thought. Then he knew it could not be Sunday. He'd gone into the tavern on a Tuesday night. That would make it five days. Too long. He had been walking and now he was at an intersection where he could look up and down a new street. There were no cars -- no people. Not even a cat. A sign overhanging the sidewalk said: Restaurant. He went in under the sign and tried the door. It was locked. There were no lights inside. He turned away -- grinning to reassure himself. Everything was all right. Just some kind of a holiday. In a big city like Chicago the people go away on hot summer holidays. They go to the beaches and the parks and sometimes you can't see a living soul on the streets. And of course you can't find any cars because the people use them to drive to the beaches and the parks and out into the country. He breathed a little easier and started walking again. Sure -- that was it. Now what the hell holiday was it? He tried to remember. He couldn't think of what holiday it could be. Maybe they'd dreamed up a new one. He grinned at that, but the grin was a little tight and he had to force it. He forced it carefully until his teeth showed white. Pretty soon he would come to a section where everybody hadn't gone to the beaches and the parks and a restaurant would be open and he'd get a good meal. A meal? He fumbled toward his pockets. He dug into them and found a handkerchief and a button from his cuff. He remembered that the button had hung loose so he'd pulled it off to keep from losing it. He hadn't lost the button, but everything else was gone. He scowled. The least they could have done was to leave a man eating money. He turned another corner -- into another street -- and it was like the one before. No cars -- no people -- not even any cats. Panic welled up. He stopped and whirled around to look behind him. No one was there. He walked in a tight circle, looking in all directions. Windows stared back at him -- eyes that didn't care where everybody had gone or when they would come back. The windows could wait. The windows were not hungry. Their heads didn't ache. They weren't scared. He began walking and his path veered outward from the sidewalk until he was in the exact center of the silent street. He walked down the worn white line. When he got to the next corner he noticed that the traffic signals were not working. Black, empty eyes. His pace quickened. He walked faster -- ever faster until he was trotting on the brittle pavement, his sharp steps echoing against the buildings. Faster. Another corner. And he was running, filled with panic, down the empty street. stared at the ceiling. The ceiling was a blur but it began to clear as her mind cleared. The ceiling became a surface of dirty, cracked plaster and there was a feeling of dirt and squalor in her mind. It was always like that at these times of awakening, but doubly bitter now, because she had never expected to awaken again. She reached down and pulled the wadded sheet from beneath her legs and spread it over them. She looked at the bottle on the shabby bedtable. There were three sleeping pills left in it. The girl's eyes clouded with resentment. You'd think seven pills would have done it. She reached down and took the sheet in both hands and drew it taut over her stomach. This was a gesture of frustration. Seven hadn't been enough, and here she was again -- awake in the world she'd wanted to leave. Awake with the necessary edge of determination gone. She pulled the sheet into a wad and threw it at the wall. She got up and walked to the window and looked out. Bright daylight. She wondered how long she had slept. A long time, no doubt. Her naked thigh pressed against the windowsill and her bare stomach touched the dirty pane. Naked in the window, but it didn't matter, because it gave onto an airshaft and other windows so caked with grime as to be of no value as windows. But even aside from that, it didn't matter. It didn't matter in the least. She went to the washstand, her bare feet making no sound on the worn rug. She turned on the faucets, but no water came. No water, and she had a terrible thirst. She went to the door and had thrown the bolt before she remembered again that she was naked. She turned back and saw the halfempty Pepsi-Cola bottle on the floor beside the bed table. Someone else had left it there -- how many nights ago? -- but she drank it anyhow, and even though it was flat and warm it soothed her throat. She bent over to pick up garments from the floor and dizziness came, forcing her to the edge of the bed. After a while it passed and she got her legs into one of the garments and pulled it on. Taking cosmetics from her bag, she went again to the washstand and tried the taps. Still no water. She combed her hair, jerking the comb through the mats and gnarls with a satisfying viciousness. When the hair fell into its natural, blond curls, she applied powder and lipstick. She went back to the bed, picked up her brassiere and began putting it on as she walked to the cracked, full-length mirror in the closet door. With the brassiere in place, she stood looking at her slim image. She assayed herself with complete impersonality. She shouldn't look as good as she did -- not after the beating she'd taken. Not after the long nights and the days and the years, even though the years did not add up to very many. I could be someone's wife, she thought, with wry humor. I could be sending kids to school and going out to argue with the grocer about the tomatoes being too soft. I don't look bad at all. She raised her eyes until they were staring into their own images in the glass and she spoke aloud in a low, wondering voice. She said, "Who the hell am I, anyway? Who am I? A body named Linda -- that's who I am. No -- that's what I am. A body's not a who -- it's a what. One hundred and fourteen pounds of well-built blond body called Linda -- model #I -- no fender dents -- nice paint job. Come in and drive me away. Price tag -- " She bit into the lower lip she'd just finished reddening and turned quickly to walk to the bed and wriggle into her dress -- a gray and green cotton -- the only one she had. She picked up her bag and went to the door. There she stopped to turn and thumb her nose at the three sleeping pills in the bottle before she went out and closed the door after herself. The desk clerk was away from the cubbyhole from which he presided over the lobby, and there were no loungers to undress her as she walked toward the door. Nor was there anyone out in the street. The girl looked north and south. No cars in sight either. No buses waddling up to the curb to spew out passengers. The girl went five doors north and tried to enter a place called Tim's Hamburger House. As the lock held and the door refused to open, she saw that there were no lights on inside -- no one behind the counter. The place was closed. She walked on down the street followed only by the lonesome sound of her own clicking heels. All the stores were closed. All the lights were out. All the people were gone. place of concealment of the Chicago Avenue police station was very small -- merely an indentation low in the cement wall behind two steam pipes. The big man had lain in this niche for forty-eight hours. He had slugged a man over the turn of a card in a poolroom pinochle game, had been arrested in due course, and was awaiting the disposal of his case. He was sorry he had slugged the man. He had not had any deep hatred for him, but rather a rage of the moment that demanded violence as its outlet. Although he did not consider it a matter of any great importance, he did not look forward to the six month's jail sentence he would doubtless be given. His opportunity to hide in the niche had come as accidentally and as suddenly as his opportunity to slug his card partner. It had come after the prisoners had been advised of the crisis and were being herded into vans for transportation elsewhere. He had snatched the opportunity without giving any consideration whatever to the crisis. Probably because he did not have enough imagination to fear anything -- however terrible -- which might occur in the future. And because he treasured his freedom above all else. Freedom for today, tomorrow could take care of itself. Now, after forty-eight hours, he writhed and twisted his huge body out of the niche and onto the floor of the furnace room. His legs were numb and he found that he could not stand. He managed to sit up and was able to bend his back enough so his great hands could reach his legs and begin to massage life back into them. So elementally brutal was this man that he pounded his legs until they were black and blue, before feeling returned to them. In a few minutes he was walking out of the furnace room through a jail house which should now be utterly dented. But was it? He went slowly, eliding along close to the walls to reach the front door unchallenged. I Ie walked out into the street. It was daylight and the street was completely deserted. The man took a deep breath and grinned. "I'll be damned," he muttered. "I'll be double and triple damned. They're all gone. Every damn one of them run off like rats and I'm the onlyone left. I'll be damned!" A tremendous sense of exultation seized him. He clenched his fists and laughed loud, his laugh echoing up the street. He was happier than he had ever been in his quick, violent life. And his joy was that of a child locked in a pantry with a huge chocolate cake. He rubbed a hand across his mouth, looked up the street, began walking. "I wonder if they took all the whisky with them," he said. Then he grinned; he was sure they had not. He began walking in long strides toward Clark Street. In toward the still heart of the empty city. little man, and very dangerous. He was also very clever. Eventually they would have found out, but he had been clever enough to deceive them and now they would never know. There was great wealth in his family, and with the rest of them occupied with leaving the city and taking what valuables they could on such short notice, he had been put in charge of one of the chauffeurs. The chauffeur had been given the responsibility of getting the pale-skinned young man out of the city. But the young man had caused several delays until all the rest were gone. Then, meekly enough, he had accompanied the chauffeur to the garage. The chauffeur got behind the wheel of the last remaining car -- a Cadillac sedan -- and the young man had gotten into the rear seat. But before the chauffeur could start the motor, the young man hit him on the head with a tire bar he had taken from a shelf as they had entered the garage. The bar went deep into the chauffeur's skull with a solid sound, and thus the chauffeur found the death he was in the very act of fleeing. The young man pulled the dead chauffeur from the car and laid him on the cement floor. He laid him down very carefully, so that he was in the exact center of a large square of outlined cement with his feet pointing straight north and his outstretched arms pointing south. The young man placed the chauffeur's cap very carefully upon his chest, because neatness pleased him. Then he got into the car, started it, and headed east toward Lake Michigan and the downtown section. After traveling three or four miles, he turned the car off the road and drove it into a telephone post. Then he walked until he came to some high weeds. He lay dowft in the weeds and waited. He knew there would probably be a last vanguard of militia hunting for stragglers. If they saw a moving car they would investigate. They would take him into custody and force him to leave the city. This, he felt, they had no right to do. All his life he had been ordered about -- told to do this and that and the other thing. Stupid orders from stupid people. Idiots who went so far as to claim the whole city would be destroyed, just to make people do as they said. God! The ends to which stupid people would go in orpeople. The young man lay in the weeds and dozed off, his mind occupied with the pleasant memory of the tire iron settling into the skull of the chauffeur. After a while he awoke and heard the cars of the last vanguard passing down the road. They stopped, inspected the Cadillac and found it serviceable. They took it with them, but they did not search the weeds along the road. When they had disappeared toward the west, the young man came back to the road and began walking east, in toward the city. Complete destruction in two days? Preposterous. The young man smiled. hours she had walked the streets of the empty city and the fear, strengthened by weariness, was now mounting toward terror. "One face," she whispered. "Just one person coming out of a house or walking across the street. That's all I ask. Somebody to tell me what this is all about. If I can find one person, I won't be afraid any more." And the irony of it struck her. A few hours previously she had attempted suicide. Sick of herself and of all people, she had tried to end her own life. Therefore, by acknowledging death as the answer, she should now have no fear whatever of anything. Reconciled to crossing the bridge into death, no facet of life should have held terror for her. But the empty city did hold terror. One face -- one moving form was all she asked for. Then, a second irony. When she saw the man at the corner of Washington and Wells, her terror increased. They saw each other at almost the same moment. Both stopped and stared. Fingers of panic ran up the girl's spine. The man raised a hand and the spell was broken. The girl turned and ran, and there was more terror in her than there had been before. She knew how absurd this was, but still she ran blindly. What had she to fear? She knew all about men; all the things men could do they had already done to her. Murder was the ultimate, but she was fresh from a suicide attempt. Death should hold no terrors for her. She thought of these things as the man's footsteps sounded behind her and she turned into a narrow alley seeking a hiding place. She found none and the man turned in after her. She found a passageway, entered with the same blindness which had brought her into the alley. There was a steel door at the end and a brick lying by the sill. The door was locked. She picked up the brick and turned. The man skidded on the filthy alley surface as he turned into the areaway. The girl raised the brick over her head. "Keep away! Stay away from me!" "Wait a minute! Take it easy. I'm not going to hurt you!" "Get away!" Her arm moved downward. The man rushed in and caught her wrist. The brick went over his shoulder and the nails of her other hand raked his face. He seized her without regard for niceties and they went to the ground. She fought with everything she had and he methodically neutralized all her weapons -- her hands, her legs, her teeth -- until she could not move. "Leave me alone. Please!" "What's wrong with you? I'm not going to hurt you. But I'm not going to let you hit me with a brick, either!" "What do you want? Why did you chase me?" "Look -- I'm a peaceful guy, but I'm not going to let you get away. I spent all afternoon looking for somebody. I found you and you ran away. I came after you." "I haven't done anything to you." "That's silly talk. Come on -- grow up! I said I'm not going to hurt you." "Let me up." "So you can run away again? Not for a while. I want to talk to you." "I -- I won't run. I was scared. I don't know why. You're hurting me." He got up -- gingerly -- and lifted her to her feet. He smiled, still holding both her hands. "I'm sorry. I guess it's natural for you to be scared. My name's Frank Brooks. I just want to find out what the hell happened to this town." He let her withdraw her hands, but he still blocked her escape. She moved a pace backward and straightened her clothing. "I don't know what happened. I was looking for someone too." He smiled again. "And then you ran. "I don't know why. I guess -- " "What's your name." "Nora -- Nora Spade." "You slept through it too?" "Yes... yes. I slept through it and came out and they were all gone." "Let's get out of this alley." He preceded her out, but he waited for her when there was room for them to walk side by side, and she did not try to run away. That phase was evidently over. "I got slipped a mickey in a tavern," Frank Brooks said. "Then they slugged me and put me in a hole." His eyes questioned. She felt their demand and said, "I was -- asleep in my hotel room." "They overlooked you?" "I guess so." "Then you don't know anything about it?" "Nothing. Something terrible must have happened." "Let's go down this way," Frank said, and they moved toward Madison Street. He had taken her arm and she did not pull away. Rather, she walked invitingly close to him. She said, "It's so spooky. So... empty. I guess that's what scared   # me. "It would scare anybody. There must have been an evacuation of some kind." "Maybe the Russians are going to drop a bomb." Frank shook his head. "That wouldn't explain it. I mean, the Russians wouldn't let us know ahead of time. Besides, the army would be here. Everybody wouldn't be gone." "There's been a lot of talk about germ warfare. Do you suppose the water, maybe, has been poisoned?" He shook his head. "The same thing holds true. Even if they moved the people out, the army would be here." "I don't know. It just doesn't make sense." "It happened, so it has to make sense. It was something that came up all of a sudden. They didn't have much more than twenty-four hours." He stopped suddenly and looked at her. "We've got to get out of here!" Nora Spade smiled for the first time, but without humor. "How? I haven't seen one car. The buses aren't running." His mind was elsewhere. They had started walking again. "Funny I didn't think of that before." "Think of what?" "That anybody left in this town is a dead pigeon. The only reason they'd clear out a city would be to get away from certain death. That would mean death is here for anybody that stays. Funny. I was so .busy looking for somebody to talk to that I never thought of that." "I did." "Is that what you were scared of?" "Not particularly. I'm not afraid to die. It was something else that scared me. The aloneness, I guess." "We'd better start walking west -- out of the city. Maybe we'll find a car or something." "I don't think we'll find any cars." He drew her to a halt and looked into her face. "You aren't afraid at all, are you?" She thought for a moment. "No, I guess I'm not. Not of dying, that is. Dying is a normal thing. But I was afraid of the empty streets -- nobody around. That was weird." "It isn't weird now?" "Not -- not as much." "I wonder how much time we've got?" Nora shrugged. "I don't know, but I'm hungry." "We can fix that. I broke into a restaurant a few blocks back and got myself a sandwich. I think there's still food around. They couldn't take it all with them." They were on Madison Street and they turned east on the south side of the street. Nora said, "I wonder if there are any other people still here -- like us?" "I think there must be. Not very many, but a few. They would have out overnight. It stands to reason they must have missed a few. Did you ever try to empty a sack of sugar? Really empty it? It's impossible. Some of the grains always stick to the sack." A few minutes later the wisdom of this observation was proven when they came to a restaurant with the front window broken out and saw a man and a woman sitting at one of the tables. shock of black hair and a mouth slightly open showing a set of incredibly white teeth. He waved an arm and shouted, "Come on in! Come on in for crissake and sit down! We got beer and roast beef and the beer's still cold. Come on in and meet Minna." This was different, Nora thought. Not eerie. Not weird, like seeing a man standing on a deserted street corner with no one else around. This seemed normal, natural, and even the smashed window didn't detract too much from the naturalness. They went inside. There were chairs at the table and they sat down. The big man did not get up. He waved a hand toward his companion and said, "This is Minna. Ain't she something? I found her sitting at an empty bar scared to death. We came to an understanding and I brought her along." He grinned at the woman and winked. "We came to a real understanding, didn't we, Minna?" , Minna was a completely colorless woman of perhaps thirty-five. Her skin was smooth and pale and she wore no makeup of any kind. Her hair was drawn straight back into a bun. The hair had no predominating color. It was somewhere between light brown and blond. She smiled a little sadly, but the laugh did not cover her worn, tired look. It seemed more like a gesture of obedience than anything else. "Yes. We came to an understandmg. "I'm Jim Wilson," the big man boomed. "I was in the Chicago Avenue jug for slugging a guy in a card game. They kind of overlooked me when they cleaned the joint out." He winked again. "I kind of helped them overlook me. Then I found Minna." There was tremendous relish in his words. Frank started introductions which Nora Spade cut in on. "Maybe you know what happened?" she asked. Wilson shook his head. "I was in the jug and they didn't tell us. They just started cleaning out the joint. There was talk in the bullpen -- invasion or something. Nobody knew for sure. Have some beer and meat." Nora tumd to the quiet Minna. "Did you hear anything?" "Naw," Wilson said with a kind of affectionate contempt. "She don't know anything about it. She lived in some attic dump and was down with a sore throat. She took some pills or something and when she woke up they were gone." "I went to work and -- " Minna began, but Wilson cut her off. "She swabs out some joints on Chicago Avenue for a living and that was how she happened to be sitting in that tavern. It's payday, and Minna was waiting for her dough!" He exploded into laughter and slapped the table with a huge hand. "Can you beat that? Waiting for her pay at a time like this." Frank Brooks set down his beer bottle. The beer was cold and it tasted good. "Have you met anybody else? There must be some other people around." "Uh-uh. Haven't met anybody but Minna." He turned his eyes on the woman again, then got to his feet. "Come on, Minna. You and I got to have a little conference. We got things to talk about." Grinning, he walked toward the rear of the restaurant. Minna got up more slowly. She followed him behind the counter and into the rear of the place. Alone with Nora, Frank said, "You aren't eating. Want me to look for something else?" "No -- I'm not very hungry. I was just wondering -- " "Wondering about what?" "When it will happen. When whatever is going to happen -- you know what I mean." "I'd rather know what's going to happen. I hate puzzles. It's hell to have to get killed and not know what killed you." "We aren't being very sensible, are we?" "How do you mean?" "We should at least act normal." "I don't get it." Nora frowned in slight annoyance. "Normal people would be trying to reach safety. They wouldn't be sitting in a restaurant drinking beer. We should be trying to get away. Even if it does mean walking. Normal people would be trying to get away." Frank stared at his bottle for a moment. "We should be scared stiff, shouldn't we?" It was Nora's turn to ponder. "I'm not sure. Maybe not. I know I'm not fighting anything inside -- fear, I mean. I just don't seem to care one way or another." "I care," Frank replied. "I care. I don't want to die. But we're faced with a situation, and either way it's a gamble. We might be dead before I finish this bottle of beer. If that's true, why not sit here and be comfortable? Or we might have time to walk far enough to get out of range of whatever it is that chased everybody." "Which way do you think it is?" "I don't think we have time to get out of town. They cleaned it out too fast. We'd need at least four or five hours to get away. If we had that much time the army, or whoever did it, would still be around." "Maybe they didn't know themselves when it's going to happen." He made an impatient gesture. "What difference does it make? We're in a situation we didn't ask to get in. Our luck put us here and I'm damned if I'm going to kick a hole in the ceiling and yell for help." Nora was going to reply, but at that moment Jim Wilson came striding out front. He wore his big grin and he carried another halfdozen bottles of beer. "Minna'll be out in a minute," he said. "Women are always slower than hell." He dropped into a chair and snapped the cap off a beer bottle with his thumb. He held the bottle up and squinted through it, sighing gustily. "Man! I ain't never had it so good." He tilted the bottle in salute, and drank. west now, and when Minna reappeared it seemed that she materialized from the shadows, so quietly did she move. Jim Wilson opened another bottle and put it before her. "Here -- have a drink, baby." Obediently, she tilted the bottle and drank. "What do you plan to do?" Frank asked. "It'll be dark soon," Wilson said. "We ought to go out and try to scrounge some flashlights. I bet the power plants are dead. Probably aren't any flashlights either." "Are you going to stay here?" Nora asked. "Here in the Loop?" He seemed surprised. "Why not? A man'd be a fool to walk out on all this. All he wants to eat and drink. No goddam cops around. The life of Reilly and I should walk out?" "Aren't you afraid of what's going to happen?" "I don't give a good goddam what's going to happen. What the hell! Something's always going to happen." "They didn't evacuate the city for nothing," Frank said. "You mean we can all get killed?" Jim Wilson laughed. "Sure we can. We could have got killed last week too. We could of got batted in the can by a truck anytime we crossed the street." He emptied his bottle, threw it accurately at a mirror over the cash register. The crash was thunderous. "Trouble with you people, you're worry warts," he said with an expansive grin. "Let's go get us some flashlights so we can find our way to bed in one of those fancy hotels." He got to his feet and Minna arose also, a little tired, a little apprehensive, but entirely submissive. Jim Wilson said, "Come on, baby. I sure won't want to lose you." He grinned at the others. "You guys coming?" Frank's eyes met Nora's. He shrugged. "Why not?" he said. "Unless you want to start walking." "I'm too tired," Nora said. As they stepped out through the smashed window, both Nora and Frank half-expected to see other forms moving up and down Madison Street. But there was no one. Only the unreal desolation of the lonely pavement and the dark-windowed buildings. "The biggest ghost town on earth," Frank muttered. Nora's hand had slipped into Frank's. He squeezed it and neither of them seemed conscious of the contact. "I wonder," Nora said. "Maybe this is only one of them. Maybe all the other big cities are evacuated too." Jim Wilson and Minna were walking ahead. He turned. "If you two can't sleep without finding out what's up, it's plenty easy to do." "You think we could find a battery radio in some store?" Frank ciskcd "Hell no! They'll all be gone. But all you'd have to do is snoop around in some newspaper office. If you can read you can find out what happened." It seemed strange to Frank that he had not thought of this. Then he realized he hadn't tried very hard to think of anything at all. He was surprised, also, at his lack of fear. He's gone through life pretty much taking things as they came -- as big a sucker as the next man -- making more than his quota of mistakes and blunders. Finding himself completely alone in a deserted city for the first time in his life, he had naturally fallen prey to sudden fright. But that had gradually passed, and now he was able to accept the new reality fairly passively. He wondered if that wasn't pretty much the way of all people. New situations brought a surge of whatever emotion fitted the picture. Then the emotion subsided and the new thing became the ordinary. This, he decided, was the manner in which humanity survived. Humanity took things as they came. Pile on enough of anything and it becomes the ordinary. Jim Wilson had picked up a garbage box apd hurled it through the window of an electric shop. The glass came down with a crash that shuddered up the empty darkening street and grumbled off into silence. Jim Wilson went inside. "I'll see what I can find. You stay out here and watch for cops." His laughter echoed out as he disappeared. Minna stood waiting silently, unmoving, and somehow she reminded Frank of a dumb animal; an unreasoning creature with no mind of her own, waiting for a signal from her master. Strangely, he resented this, but at the same time could find no reason for his resentment, except the feeling that no one should appear as much a slave as Minna. Jim Wilson reappeared in the window. He motioned to Minna. "Come on in, baby. You and me's got to have a little conference." His exaggerated wink was barely perceptible in the gloom as Minna stepped over the low sill into the store. "Won't be long, folks," Wilson said in high good humor, and the two of them vanished into the darkness beyond. Frank Brooks glanced at Nora, hut her face was turned away. He cursed softy under his breath. He said, "Wait a minute," and went into the store through the huge, jagged opening. Inside, he could barely make out the counters. The place was larger than it had appeared from the outside. Wilson and Minna were nowhere about. Frank found the counter he was looking for and pawed out several flashlights. They were only empty tubes, but he found a case of batteries in a panel compartment against the wall. "Who's there?" "Me. I came in for some flashlights." "Couldn't you w'ait?" "It's getting dark." "You don't have to be so damn impatient." Jim Wilson's voice was hostile and surly. Frank stifled his quick anger. "We'll be outside," he said. He found Nora waiting where he'd left her. He loaded batteries into four flashlights before Jim Wilson and Minna reappeared. Wilson's good humor was back. "How about the Morrison or the Sherman," he said. "Or do you want to get real ritzy and walk up to the Drake?" "My feet hurt," Minna said. The woman spoke so rarely, Frank Brooks was startled by her words. "Morrison's the closest, " Jim Wilson said. "Let's go." He took Minna by the arm and swung off up the street. Frank and Nora fell in behind. Nora shivered. Frank, holding her arm, asked, "Cold?" "No. It's just all -- unreal again." "I see what you mean." "I never expected to see the Loop dark. I can't get used to it." A vagrant, whispering wind picked up a scrap of paper and whirled it along the street. It caught against Nora's ankle. She jerked perceptibly and kicked the scrap away. The wind caught it again and spiralled it away into the darkness. "I want to tell you something," she said. "Tell away." "I told you before that I slept through the -- the evacuation, or whatever it was. That wasn't exactly true. I did sleep through it, but it was my fault. I put myself to sleep." "I don't get it." "I tried to kill myself. Sleeping tablets. Seven of them. They weren't enough." Frank said nothing while they paced off ten steps through the dark canyon that was Madison Street. Nora wondered if he had heard. "I tried to commit suicide." "Why?" "I was tired of life, I guess." "What do you want -- sympathy?" The sudden harshness in his voice brought her eyes around, but his face was a white blur. "No -- no, I don't think so." "Well, you won't get it from me. Suicide is silly. You can have troubles and all that -- everybody has them -- but suicide -- why did you try it?" A high, thin whine -- a wordless vibration of eloquence -- needled out of the darkness into their ears. The shock was like a sudden shower of ice water dashed over their bodies. Nora's fingers dug into Frank's arm, but he did not feel the cutting nails. "We're -- there's someone out there in the street!" T wenty-five feet ahead of where Frank and Nora stood frozen there burst the booming voice of Jim Wilson. "What the hell was that?" And the shock was dispelled. The white circle from Wilson's flash bit out across the blackness to outline movement on the far side of the street. Then Frank Brook's light, and Nora's, went exploring. "There's somebody over there," Wilson bellowed. "Hey, you! Show your face! Quit sneaking around!" Frank's light swept an arc that clearly outlined the buildings across the street and then weakened as it swung westward. There was something or someone back there, but obscured by the dimness. He was swept by a sense of unreality again. "Did you see them?" Nora's light beam had dropped to her feet as though she feared to point it out into the darkness. "I thought I saw something." Jim Wilson was swearing industriously. "There was a guy over there. He ducked around the corner. Some damn fool out scrounging. Wish I had a gun." Frank and Nora moved ahead and the four stood in a group. "Put out your lights," Wilson said. "They make good targets if the jerk's got any weapons." They stood in the darkness, Nora holding tightly to Frank's arm. Frank said, "That was the damndest noise I ever heard." "Like a siren?" Frank thought Jim Wilson spoke hopefully, as though wanting somebody to agree with him. "Not like any I ever heard. Not like a whistle, either. More of a moan." "Let's get into that goddam hotel and -- " Jim Wilson's words were cut off by a new welling-up of the melancholy howling. It had a new pattern this time. It sounded from many places; not nearer, Frank thought, than Lake Street on the north, but spreading outward and backward and growing fainter until it died on the wind. Nora was shivering, clinging to Frank without reserve. Jim Wilson said, "I'll be damned if it doesn't sound like a signal of some kind." "Maybe it's a language -- a way of communication." "But who the hell's communicating?" "How would I know?" "We best get to that hotel and bar a few doors. A man can't fight in the dark -- and nothing to fight with." They hurried up the street, but it was all different now. Gone was the illusion of being alone ; gone the sense of solitude. Around them the ghost town had come suddenly alive. Sinister forces more frightening than the previous solitude had now to be reckoned with. "Something's happened -- something in the last few minutes," Nora whispered. Frank leaned close as they crossed the street to the dark silent pile that was the Morrison hotel. "I think I know what you mean." "It's as though there was no one around and then, suddenly, they came." "I think they came and went away again." "Did you actually see anyone when you flashed your light?" "No -- I can't say positively that I did. But I got the impression there were figures out there -- at least dozens of them -- and that they moved back away from the light. Always just on the edge of it." "I'm scared, Frank." "So am I." "Do you think it could all be imagination?" "Those moans? Maybe the first one -- I've heard of people imagining sounds. But not the last ones. And besides, we all heard them." Jim Wilson, utterly oblivious of any subtle emanations in the air, boomed out in satisfaction: "We don't have to bust the joint open. The revolving door works." "Then maybe we ought to be careful," Frank said. "Maybe somebody else is around here." "Could be. We'll find out." "Why are we afraid?" Nora whispered. "It's natural, isn't it?" Frank melted the beam of his light with that of Jim Wilson. The white finger pierced the darkness inside. Nothing moved. "I don't see why it should be. If there are people in there they must be as scared as we are." Nora was very close to him as they entered. The lobby seemed deserted. The flashlight beams scanned the empty chairs and couches. The glass of the deserted cages threw back reflections. "The keys are in there," Frank said. He vaulted the desk and scanned the numbers under the pigeon holes. "We'd better stay down low," Jim Wilson said. "Damned if I'm going to climb to the penthouse." "How about the fourth floor?" "That's plenty high enough." Frank came out with a handful of keys. "Odd numbers," he said. "Four in a row." "Well I'll be damned," Jim Wilson muttered. But he said no more and they climbed the stairs in silence. They passed the quiet dining rooms and banquet halls, and by the time they reached the fourth floor the doors giving off the corridors had assumed a uniformity. "Here they are." He handed a key to Wilson. "That's the end one." He said nothing as he gave Minna her key, but Wilson grunted, "For crissake!" in a disgusted voice, took Minna's key and threw it on the floor. Frank and Nora watched as Wilson unlocked his door, Wilson turned. "Well, goodnight all. If you get goosed by any spooks, just yell." Minna followed him without a word and the door closed. Frank handed Nora her key. "Lock your door and you'll be safe. I'll check the room first." He unlocked the door and flashed his light inside. Nora was close behind him as he entered. He checked the bathroom. "Everything clear. Lock your door and you'll be safe." "Frank." "Yes?" "I'm afraid to stay alone." "You mean you want me to -- " "There are two beds here." His reply was slow in coming. Nora didn't wait for it. Her voice rose to the edge of hysteria. "Quit being so damned righteous. Things have changed! Can't you realize that? What does it matter how or where we sleep? Does the world care? Will it make a damn bit of difference to the world whether I strip stark naked in front of you?" A sob choked in her throat. "Or would that outrage your morality." He moved toward her, stopped six inches away. "It isn't that. For God's sake! I'm no saint. It's just that I thought you -- " "I'm plain scared, and I don't want to be alone. To me that's all that's important." Her face was against his chest and his arms went around her. But her own hands were fists held together against him until he could feel her knuckles, hard, against his chest. She was crying. "Sure," Frank said. "I'll stay with you. Now take it easy. Everything's going to be all right." Nora sniffled without bothering to reach for ' her handkerchief. "Stop lying. You know it isn't going to be all right." Frank was at somewhat of a loss. This flareup of Nora's was entirely unexpected. He eased toward the place the flashlight had shown the bed to be. Her legs hit its edge and she sat down. "You -- you want me to sleep in the other one?" he asked. "Of course," Nora replied with marked bitterness. "I'm afraid you wouldn't be very comfortable in with me." There was a time of silence. Frank took off his jacket, shirt and trousers. It was funny, he thought. He'd spent his money, been drugged, beaten and robbed as a result of one objective -- to get into a room alone with a girl. And a girl not nearly as nice as Nora at that. Now, here he was alone with a real dream, and he was tongue-tied. It didn't make sense. He shrugged. Life was crazy sometimes. He heard the rustle of garments and wondered how much Nora was taking off. Then he dropped his trousers, forgotten, to the floor. "Did you hear that?" "Yes. It's that -- " Frank went to the window, raised the sash. The moaning sound came in louder, but it was from far distance. "I think that's out around Evanston." Frank felt a warmth on his cheek and he realized Nora was by his side, leaning forward. He put an arm around her and they stood unmoving in complete silence. Although their ears were straining for the sound coming down from the north, Frank could not be oblivious of the warm flesh under his hand. Nora's breathing was soft against his cheek. She said, "Listen to how it rises and falls. It's almost as though they were using it to talk with, The inflection changes." "I think that's what it is. It's coming from a lot of different places. It stops in some places and starts in others." "It's so -- weird." "Spooky," Frank said, "but in a way it makes me feel better." "I don't see how it could." Nora pressed closer to him. "It does though, because of what I was afraid of. I had it figured out that the city was going to blow up -- that a bomb had been planted that they couldn't find, or something like that. Now, I'm pretty to bet we'll be alive in the morning." Nora thought that over in silence. "If that's the way it is -- if some kind of invaders are coming down from the north -- isn't it stupid to stay here? Even if we are tired we ought to be trying to get away from them." "I was thinking the same thing. I'll go and talk to Wilson." They crossed the room together and he left her by the bed and went on to the door. Then he remembered he was in his shorts and went back and got his trousers. After he'd put them on, he wondered why he'd bothered. He opened the door. Something warned him -- some instinct -- or possibly his natural fear and caution coincided with the presence of danger. He heard the footsteps on the carpeting down the hall -- soft, but unmistakably footsteps. He called, "Wilson -- Wilson -- that you?" The creature outside threw caution to the winds. Frank sensed rather than heard a body hurtling toward the door. A shrill, mad laughter raked his ears and the weight of a body hit the door. Frank drew strength from pure panic as he threw his weight against the panel, but perhaps an inch or two from the latch the door wavered from opposing strength. Through the narrow opening he could feel the' hoarse breath of exertion in his face. Insane giggles and curses sounded through the black stillness. Frank had the wild conviction he was losing the battle, and added strength came from somewhere. He heaved and there was a scream and he knew he had at least one finger caught between the door and the jamb. He threw his weight against the door with frenzied effort and heard the squash of the finger. The voice kited up to a shriek of agony, like that of a wounded animal. Even with his life at stake, and the life of Nora, Frank could not deliberately slice the man's fingers off. Even as he fought the urge, and called himself a fool, he allowed the door to give slightly inward. The hand was jerked to safety. At that moment another door opened close by and Jim Wilson's voice boomed : "What the hell's going on out here?" Simultaneous with this, racing footsteps receded down the hall and from the well of the stairway came a whining cry of pain. "Jumping jees!" Wilson bellowed. "We got company. We ain't alone!" "He tried to get into my room." "You shouldn't have opened the door. Nora okay?" "Yeah. She's all right." "Tell her to stay in her room. And you do the same. We'd be crazy to go after that coot in the dark. He'll keep 'til morning." Frank closed the door, doublelocked it and went back to Nora's bed. He could hear a soft sobbing. He reached down and pulled back the covers and the sobbing came louder. Then he was down on the bed and she was in his arms. She cried until the panic subsided, while he held her and said nothing. After a while she got control of herself. "Don't leave me, Frank," she begged. "Please don't leave me." He stroked her shoulder. "I won't," he whispered. They lay for a long time in utter silence, each seeking strength in the other's closeness. The silence was finally broken by Nora. "Frank?" "Yes." "Do you want me?" He did not answer. "If you want me you can have me, Frank." Frank said nothing. "I told you today that I tried to commit suicide. Remember?" "I remember." "That was the truth. I did it because I was tired of everything. Because I've made a terrible mess of things. I didn't want to go on livHe remained silent, holding her. As she spoke again, her voice sharpened. "Can't you understand what I'm telling you? I'm no good! I'm just a bum! Other men have had me! Why shouldn't you? Why should you be cheated out of what other men have had?" He remained silent. After a few moments, Nora said, "For God's sake, talk! Say something!" "How do you feel about it now? Will you try again to kill yourself the next chance you get?" "No -- no, I don't think I'll ever try it again." "Then things must look better." "I don't know anything about that. I just don't want to do it now." She did not urge him this time and he was slow in speaking. "It's kind of funny. It really is. Don't get the idea I've got morals. I haven't. I've had my share of women. I was working on one the night they slipped me the mickey -- the night before I woke up to this tomb of a city. But now -- tonight -- its kind of different. I feel like I want to protect you. Is that strange?" "No," she said quietly. "I guess not." They lay there silently, their thoughts going off into the blackness of the sepulchral night. After a long while, Nora's even breathing told him she was asleep. He got up quietly, covered her, and went to the other bed. But before he slept, the weird wailings from out Evanston way came again -- rose and fell in that strange conversational cadencethen died away into nothing. X gers of daylight. Nora still slept. He dressed and stood for some moments with his hand on the door knob. Then he threw the bolt and cautiously opened the door. The hallway was deserted. At this point it came to him forcibly that he was not a brave man. All his life, he realized, he had avoided physical danger and had refused to recognize the true reason for so doing. He had classified himself as a man who dodged trouble through good sense; that the truly civilized person went out of his way to keep the peace. He realized now that that attitude was merely salve for his ego. He faced the empty corridor and did not wish to proceed further. But stripped of the life-long alibi, he forced himself to walk through the doorway, close the door softly, and move toward the stairs. He paused in front of the door behind which Jim Wilson and Minna were no doubt sleeping. He stared at it wistfully. It certainly would not be a mark of cowardice to get Jim Wilson up under circumstances such as these. In fact, he would be a fool not to do so. Stubbornness forbade such a move, however. He walked softly toward the place where the hallway dead-ended and became a crosscorridor. He made the turn carefully, pressed against one wall. There was no one in sight. He got to the stairway and started down. His muscles and nerves tightened with each step. When he reached the lobby he was ready to jump skyhigh at the drop of a pin. But no one dropped any pins, and he reached the modernistic glass doorway to the drugstore with only silence screaming in his ears. The door was unlocked. One hinge squeaked slightly as he pushed the door inward. It was in the drugstore that Frank found signs of the fourthfloor intruder. An inside counter near the prescription department was red with blood. Bandages and first-aid supplies had been unboxed and thrown around with abandon. Here the man had no doubt administered to his smashed hand. But where had he gone? Asleep, probably, in one of the rooms upstairs. Frank wished fervently for a weapon. Beyond doubt there was not a gun left in the Loop. A gun was not the only weapon ever created, though, and Frank searched the store and found a line of pocket knives still in neat boxes near the perfume counter. He picked four of the largest and found, also, a wooden-handled, lead-tipped bludgeon, used evidently for cracking ice. Thus armed, he went out through the revolving door. He walked through streets that were like death under the climbing sun. Through streets and canyons of dead buildings upon which the new daylight had failed to shed life or diminish the terror of the night past. At Dearborn he found the door to the Tribune Public Service Building locked. He used the ice breaker to smash a glass door panel. The crash of the glass on the cement was an explosion in the screaming silence. He went inside. Here the sense of desolation was complete; brought sharply to focus, probably, by the pigeon holes filled with letters behind the want-ad counter. Answers to a thousand and one queries, waiting patiently for someone to come after them. Before going to the basement and the back files of the Chicago Tribune, Frank climbed to the second floor and found what he thought might be there -- a row of teletype machines with a file-board hooked to the side of each machine. Swiftly, he stripped the copy sheets off each board, made a bundle of them and went back downstairs. He covered the block back to the hotel at a dog-trot, filled with a sudden urge to get back to the fourth floor as soon as possible. He stopped in the drugstore and filled his pockets with soap, a razor, shaving cream and face lotion. As an afterthought, he picked up a lavish cosmetic kit that retailed, according to the price tag, for thirtyeight dollars plus tax. He let himself back into the room and closed the door softly. Nora rolled over, exposing a shoulder and one breast. The breast held his gaze for a full minute. Then a feeling of guilt swept him and he went into the bathroom and closed the door. Luckily, a supply tank on the roof still contained water and Frank was able to shower and shave. Dressed again, he felt like a new man. But he regretted not hunting up a haberdashery shop and getting himself a clean shirt. Nora had still not awakened when he came out of the bathroom. He went to the bed and stood looking down at her for some time. Then he touched her shoulder. "Wake up. It's morning." Nora stirred. Her eyes opened, but Frank got the impression she did not really awaken for several seconds. Her eyes went to his face, to the window, back to his face. "What time is it?" "I don't know. I think it's around eight o'clock." Nora stretched both arms luxuriously. As she sat up, her slip fell back into place and Frank got the impression she hadn't even been ware of her partial nudity. She stared up at him, clarity dawning in her eyes, "You're all i leaned up." "I went downstairs and got some things." "You went out -- alone?" "Why not. We can't stay in here all day. We've got to hit the road and get out of here. We've overshot our luck already." "But that -- that man in the hall last night! You shouldn't have taken a chance." "I didn't bump into him. I found the place he fixed his hand, down in the drugstore." Frank went to the table and came back with the cosmetic set. He put it in Nora's lap. "I brought this up for you." Surprise and true pleasure were mixed in her expression. "That was very nice. I think I'd better get dressed." Frank turned toward the window where he had left the bundle of teletype clips. "I've got a little reading to do." As he sat down, he saw, from the comer of his eye, a flash of slim brown legs moving toward the bathroom. Just inside the door, Nora turned. "Are Jim Wilson and Minna up yet?" "I don't think so." Nora's eyes remained on him. "I think you were very brave to go downstairs alone. But it was a foolish thing to do. You should have waited for Jim Wilson." "You're right about it being foolish. But I had to go." "Why?" "Because I'm not brave at all. Maybe that was the reason." Nora left the bathroom door open about six inches and Frank heard the sound of the shower. He sat with the papers in his hand wondering about the water. When he had gone to the bathroom the thought had never occurred to him. It was natural that it should. Now he wondered about it. Why was it still running? After a while he considered the possibility of the supply tank on the roof. Then he wondered about Nora. It was strange how he could think about her personally and impersonally at the same time. He remembered her words of the previous night. They made her -- he shied from the term. What was the old cliche? A woman of easy virtue. What made a woman of that type, he wondered. Was it something inherent in their makeup? That partially opened door was symbolic somehow. He was sure that many wives closed the bathroom door upon their husbands; did it without thinking, instinctively. He was sure Nora had left it partially open without thinking. Could a behavior pattern be traced from such an insignificant thing? He wondered about his own attitude toward Nora. He had drawn away from what she'd offered him during the night. And yet from no sense of disgust. There was certainly far more about Nora to attract than to repel. Morals, he realized dimly, were imposed -- or at least functioned -- for the protection of society. With society gone -- vanished overnight -- did the moral code still hold? If and when they got back among masses of people, would his feelings toward Nora change? He thought not. He would marry her, he told himself firmly, as quick as he'd marry any other girl. He would not hold what she was against her. I guess I'm just fundamentally unmoral myself, he thought, and began reading the news clips. door accompanied by the booming voice of Jim Wilson. "You in there! Ready for breakfast?" Frank got up and walked toward the door. As he did so, the door to the bathroom closed. Jim Wilson wore a two-day growth of beard and it didn't seem to bother him at all. As he entered the room he rubbed his hands together in great gusto. "Well, where'll we eat, folks? Let's pick the classiest restaurant in town. Nothing but the best for Minna here." He winked broadly as Minna, expressionless and silent, followed him in exactly as a shadow would have followed him and sat primly down in a straight-backed chair by the wall. "We'd better start moving south," Frank said, "and not bother about breakfast." "Getting scared?" Jim Wilson asked. "You're damn right I'm scared -- now. We're right in the middle of a big no-man' s-land." "I don't get you." At that moment the bathroom door opened and Nora came out. Jim Wilson forgot about the question he'd asked. He let forth a loud whistle of appreciation. Then he turned his eyes on Frank and his thought was crystal clear. He was envying Frank the night just passed. A sudden irritation welled up in Frank Brooks, a distinct feeling of disgust. "Let's start worrying about important things -- our lives. Or don't you consider your life very important?" Jim Wilson seemed puzzled. "What the hell's got into you? Didn't you sleep good?" "I went down the block this morning and found some teletype machines. I've just been reading the reports." "What about that guy that tried to get into your room last night?" "I didn't see him. I didn't see anybody. But I know why the city's been cleaned out." Frank went back to the window and picked up the sheaf on clips he had gone through. Jim Wilson sat down on the edge of the bed, frowning. Nora followed Frank and perched on the edge of the chair he dropped into. "The city going to blow up?" Wilson asked. "No. We've been invaded by some form of alien life." "Is that what the papers said?" "It was the biggest and fastest mass evacuation ever attempted. I pieced the reports together. There was hell popping around here during the two days we -- we waited it out." "Where did they all go?" Nora asked. "South. They've evacuated a forty-mile strip from the lake west. The first Terran defense line is set up in northern Indiana." "What do you mean -- Terra." "It's a word that means Earth -- this planet. The invaders came from some other planet, they think -- at least from no place on Earth." ever heard of," Wilson said. "A lot of people probably thought the same thing," Frank replied. "Flying saucers were pretty common. Nobody thought they were anything and nobody paid much attention. Then they hit -- three days ago -- and wiped out every living soul in three little southern Michigan towns. From there they began spreading out. They -- " Each of them heard the sound at the same time. A faint rumble, increasing swiftly into high thunder. They moved as one to the window and saw four jet planes, in formation, moving across the sky from the south. "There they come," Frank said. "The fight's started. Up to now the army has been trying to get set, I suppose. Nora said, "Is there any way we can hail them? Let them know -- " Her words were cut off by the horror of what happened. As they watched, the plane skimmed low across the Loop. At a point, approximately over Lake Street, Frank estimated, the planes were annihilated. There was a flash of blue fire coming in like jagged lightning to form four balls of fire around the planes. The fire balls turned, almost instantly, into globes of white smoke that drifted lazily away. And that was all. But the planes vanished completely. "What happened?" Wilson muttered. "Where'd they go?" "It was as if they hit a wall,"' Nora said, her voice hushed with awe. "I think that was what happened," Frank said. "The invaders have some kind of a weapon that holds us helpless. Otherwise the army wouldn't have established this no-man's-land and pulled out. The reports said we have them surrounded on all sides with the help of the lake. We're trying to keep them isolated." Jim Wilson snorted. "It looks like we've got them right where they want us." "Anyhow, we're damn fools to stick around here. We'd better head south." Wilson looked wistfully about the room. "I guess so, but it's a shame -- walking away from all this." Nora was staring out the window, a small frown on her face. "I wonder who they are and where they came from?" "The teletype releases were pretty vague on that." She turned quickly. "There's something peculiar about them. Something really strange." "What do you mean?" "Last night when we were walking up the street. It must have been these invaders we heard. They must have been across the street. But they didn't act like invaders. They seemed -- well, scared. I got the feeling they ran from us in panic. And they haven't been back." Wilson said, "They may not have been there at all. Probably our imaginations." "I don't think so," Frank cut in. "They were there and then they were gone. I'm sure of it." "Those wailing noises. They were certainly signalling to each other. Do you suppose that's the only language they have?" Nora walked over and offered the silent Minna a cigarette. Minna refused with a shake of her head. "I wish we knew what they looked like," Frank said. "But let's not sit here talking. Let's get going" Jim Wilson was scowling. There was a marked sullenness in his manner. "Not Minna and me. I've changed my mind. I'm sticking here." Frank blinked in surprise. "Are you crazy? We've run our luck out already. Did you see what happened to those planes?" "The hell with the planes. We've got it good here. This I like. I like it a lot. We'll stay." "Okay," Frank replied hotly, "but talk for yourself. You're not making Minna stay!" Wilson's eyes narrowed. "I'm not? Look, buster -- how about minding your own goddam business?" The vague feelings of disgust Frank had had now crystallized into words. "I won't let you get away with it! You think I'm blind? Hauling her into the back room every ten minutes! Don't you think I know why? You're nothing but a damn sex maniac! You've got her terrorized until she's afraid to open her mouth. She goes with us!" Jim Wilson was on his feet. His face blazed with rage. The urge to kill was written in the crouch of his body and the twist of his mouth. "You goddam nosey little squirt. I'll -- " Wilson charged across the short, intervening distance. His arms went out in a clutching motion. But Frank Brooks wasn't full of knockout drops this time, and with a clear head he was no pushover. Blinded with rage, Jim Wilson was a pushover. Frank stepped in between his outstretched arms and slugged him squarely on top of the head with the telephone. Wilson went down like a felled steer. The scream came from Minna as she sprang across the room. She had turned from a colorless rag doll into a tigress. Shehit Frank square in the belly with small fists at the end of stiff, outstretched arms. The full force of her charge was behind the fists, and Frank went backward over the bed. Minna did not follow up her attack. She dropped to the floor beside Jim Wilson and took his huge head in her lap. "You killed him," she sobbed. "You -- you murderer! You killed him! You had no right!" Frank sat wide-eyed. "Minna! For God's sake! I was helping you. I did it for you!" "Why don't you mind your business? I didn't ask you to protect me? I don't need any protection -- not from Jim." "You mean you didn't mind the way he's treated you -- " "You've killed him -- killed him -- " Minna raised her head slowly. She looked at Frank as though she saw him for the first time. "You're a fool," she said dully. "A big fool. What right have you got to meddle with other people's affairs? Are you God or something, to run people's lives?" "Minna -- I -- " It was as though he hadn't spoken. "Do you know what it's like to have nobody? All your life to go on and grow older without anybody? I didn't have no one and then Jim came along and wanted me." Frank walked close to her and bent down. She reacted like a tiger. "Leave him alone! Leave him alone! You've done enough!" Nonplused, Frank backed away. "People with big noses -- always sticking them in. That's you. Was that any of your business what he wanted of me? Did I complain?" "I'm sorrv, Minna. I didn't know." "I'd rather go into back rooms with him than stay in front rooms without nobody." She began to cry now. Wordlessly -- soundlessly, rocking back and forth with the huge man's bloody head in her lap. "Anytime," she crooned. "Anytime I would -- " The body in her arms stirred. She looked down through her tears and saw the small black eyes open. They were slightly crossed, unfocused as they were by the force of the blow. They straightened and Jim mumbled, "What the hell -- what the hell -- " Minna's time for talking seemed over. She smiled -- a smile hardly perceptible, as though it was for herself alone. "You're all right," she said. "That's good. You're all right." Jim pushed her roughly away and staggered to his feet. He stood swaying for a moment, his head turning; for all the world like a bull blinded and tormented. Then his eyes focused on Frank. "You hit me with the goddam phone." "Yeah -- I hit you." "I'm gonna kill you." "Look -- I made a mistake." Frank picked up the phone and backed against the wall. "I hit you, but you were coming at me. I made a mistake and I'm sorry." "I'll smash your goddam skull." "Maybe you will," Frank said grimly. "But you'll work for it. It won't come easy." A new voice bit across the room. That's what I like best. Everybody quiet down." They turned and saw a slim, pale-skinned young man in the open doorway. The door had opened quietly and no one had heard it. Now the pale young man was standing in the room with a small, nickle-plated revolver in his right hand. The left hand was close down at his side. It was swathed generously in white bandage. The young man chuckled. "The last four people in the world were in a room," he said, "and there was a knock on the door." His chuckle deepened to one of pure merriment. "Only there wasn't a knock. A man just walked in with a gun that made him boss." No one moved. No one spoke. The man waited, then went on: "My name is Leroy Davis. I lived out west and I always had a keeper because they said I wasn't quite right. They wanted me to pull out with the rest of them, but I slugged my keeper and here I am." "Put down the gun and we'll talk it over," Frank said. "We're all in this together." "No, we aren't. I've got a gun, so that makes me top man. You're all in it together, but I'm not. I'm the boss, and which one of you tried to cut my hand off last night." "You tried to break in here yelling and screaming like a madman. I held the door. What else could I do?" "It's all right. I'm not mad. My type -- we may be nuts, but we never hold a grudge. I can't remember much about last night. I found some whisky in a place down the street and whisky drives me nuts. I don't know what I'm doing when I drink whisky. They say once about five years ago I got drunk and killed a little kid. but T don't remember." Nobody spoke. "I got out of it. They got me out some way. High priced lawyers got me out. Cost my dad a pile." Hysteria had been piling up inside of Nora. She had held it back, but now a little of it spurted out from between her set teeth. "Do something, somebody. Isn't anybody going to do anything ?" Leroy Davis blinked at her. "There's nothing they can do, honey," he said in a kindly voice. "I've got the gunThey'd be crazy to try anything." Nora's laugh was like the rattle of dry peas. She sat down on the bed and looked up at the ceiling and laughed. "It's crazy. It's all so crazy! We're sitting here in a doomed city with some kind of alien invaders all around us and w r e don't know' what they look like. They haven't hurt us at all. We don't even know what they look like. We don't worry a bit about them because we're too busy try ing to kill each other," Frank Brooks took Nora by the arm. "Stop it! Quit laughing like that!" Nora shook him off. "Maybe we need someone to take us over. It's all pretty crazy!" "Stop it." Nora's eyes dulled down as she looked at Frank. She dropped her head and seemed a little ashamed of herself. "I'm sorry. I'll be quiet." Jim Wilson had been standing by the wall looking first at the newcomer, then back at Frank Brooks. Wilson seemed confused as to who his true enemy really was. Finally he took a step toward Leroy Davis. Frank Brooks stopped him with a motion, but kept his eyes on Davis. "Have you seen anybody else?" Davis regarded Frank with long, careful consideration. His eyes were bright and birdlike. They reminded Frank of a squirrel's eyes. Davis said, "I bumped into an old man out on Halstead Street. He wanted to know where everybody had gone. He asked me, but I didn't know." "What happened to the old man?" Nora asked. She asked the question as though dreading to do it; but as though some compulsion forced her to speak. "I shot him," Davis said cheerfully. "It was a favor, really. Here was this old man staggering down the street with nothing but a lot of wasted years to show for his efforts. He was no good alive, and he didn't have the courage to die." Davis stopped and cocked his head brightly. "You know -- I think that's what's been wrong with the world. Too many people without the guts them." It had now dawned upon Jim Wilson that they were faced by a maniac. His eyes met those of Frank Brooks and they were -- on this point at least -- in complete agreement. A working procedure sprang up, unworded, between them. Jim Wilson took a slow, casual step toward the homicidal maniac. "You didn't see anyone else?" Frank asked. Davis ignored the question. "Look at it this way," he said. "In the old days they had Texas long horns. Thin stringy cattle that gave up meat as tough as leather. Do we have cattle like that today? No. Because we bred out the weak line." Frank said, "There are some cigarettes on that table if you want one." Jim Wilson took another slow step toward Davis. Davis said, "We bred with intelligence, with a thought to what a steer was for and we produced a walking chunk of meat as wide as it is long. "Uh-huh," Frank said. "Get the point? See what I'm driving at? Humans are more important than cattle, but can we make them breed intelligently? Oh, no! That interferes with damn silly human liberties. You can't tell a man he can only have two kids. It's his God-given right to have twelve when the damn moron can't support three. Get what I mean?" "Sure -- sure, I get it." "You better think it over, mister -- and tell that fat bastard to quit sneaking up on me or I'll blow his brains all over the carpet!" If the situation hadn't been so grim it would have appeared ludicrous. Jim Wilson, feeling success almost in his grasp, was balanced on tiptoe for a lunge. He teetered, almost lost his balance and fell back against the wall. "Take it easy," Frank said. "I'll take it easy," Davis replied. "I'll kill every goddam one of you -- " he pointed the gun at Jim Wilson. " -- starting with him." "Now wait a minute," Frank said. "You're unreasonable. What right have you got to do that? What about the law of survival? You're standing there with a gun on us. You're going to kill us. Isn't it natural to try anything we can to save our own lives?" A look of admiration brightened Davis' eyes. "Say! I like you. You're all right. You're logical. A man can talk to you. If there's anything I like it's talking to a logical man." "Thanks." "Too bad I'm going to have to kill you. We could sit down and have some nice long talks together." "Why do you want to kill us?" Minna asked. She had not spoken before. In fact, she had spoken so seldom during the entire time they'd been together that her voice was a novelty to Frank. He was inclined to discount her tirade on the floor with Wilson's head in her lap. She had been a different person then. Now she had lapsed back into her old shell. Davis regarded thoughtfully. "Must you have a reason?" "You should have a reason to kill people." Davis said, "All right, if it will make you any happier. I told you tried to make me leave town. He got in the car, behind the wheel. I got into the back seat and split his skull with a tire iron." "What's that got to do with us?" "Just this. Tommy was a better person than anyone of you or all of you put together. If he had to die, what right have you got to live? Is that enough of a reason for you?" "This is all too damn crazy," Jim Wilson roared. He was on the point of leaping at Davis and his gun. At that moment, from the north, came a sudden crescendo of the weird invader wailings. It was louder than it had previously been but did not seem nearer. The group froze, all ears trained upon the sound. "They're talking again," Nora whispered. "Uh-huh," Frank replied. "But it's different this time. As if -- " " -- as if they were getting ready for something," Nora said. "Do you suppose they're going to move south?" Davis said, "I'm not going to kill you here. We're going down stairs." The pivotal moment, hinged in Jim Wilson's mind, that could have changed the situation, had come and gone. The fine edge of additional madness that would make a man hurl himself at a loaded gun, was dulled. Leroy Davis motioned pre-emptorily toward Minna. "You first -- then the other babe. You walk side by side down the hall with the men behind you. Straight down to the lobby." They complied without resistance. There was only Jim Wilson's scowl, Frank Brooks' clouded eyes, and the white, taut look of Nora. Nora's mind was not on the gun. It was filled with thoughts of the pale maniac who held it. He was in command. Instinctively, she felt that maniacs in command have one of but two motivations -- sex and murder. Her reaction to possible murder was secondary. But what if this man insisted upon laying his hands upon her. What if he forced her into the age old thing she had done so often? Nora shuddered. But it was also in her mind to question, and be surprised at the reason for her revulsion. She'visualized the hands upon her body -- the old familiar things, and the taste in her mouth was one of horror. She had never experienced such shrinkings before. Why now. Had she herself changed? Had something happened during the night that made the past a time of shame? Or was it the madman himself? She did not know. Nora returned from her musings to find herself standing in the empty lobby. Leroy Davis, speaking to Frank, was saying. "You look kind of tricky to me. Put your hands on your head. Lock your fingers together over your head and keep your hands there." Jim Wilson was standing close to the mute Minna. She had followed all the orders without any show of anger, with no outward expression. Always she had kept her eyes on Jim Wilson. Obviously, whatever Jim ordered, she would have done without question. Wilson leaned his head down toward her. He said, "Listen, baby, there's something I keep meaning to ask but I always forget it. W T hat's your last name?" "Trumble -- Minna Trumble. I thought I told you." "Maybe you did. Maybe I didn't get it." Nora felt the hysteria welling again. "How long are you going to keep doing this?" she asked. Leroy Davis cocked his head as he looked at her. "Doing what?" "Play cat and mouse like this. Holding us on a pin like flies in an exhibit." Leroy Davis smiled brightly. "Like a butterfly in your case, honey. A big, beautiful butterfly." "What are you going to do," Frank Brooks snapped. "Whatever it is, let's get it over with?" "Can't you see what I'm doing?" Davis asked with genuine wonder. "Are you that stupid? I'm being the boss. I'm in command and I like it. I hold life and death over four people and I'm savoring the thrill of it. You're pretty stupid, mister, and if you use that 'can't get away with it' line. I'll put a bullet into your left ear and watch it come out your right one." Jim Wilson's fists were doubled. He was again approaching the reckless point. And again it was dulled by the gradually increasing sound of a motor -- not in the air, but from the street level to the south. It was a sane, cheerful sound and was resented instantly by the insane mind of Leroy Davis. He tightened even to the point that his face grew more pale from the tension. He backed to a window, looked out quickly, and turned back. "It's a jeep," he said. "They're going by the hotel. If anybody makes a move, or yells, they'll find four bodies in here and me gone. That's what I'm telling you and you know I'll do it." They knew he would do it and they stood silent, trying to dredge up the nerve to make a move. The jeep's motor backfired a couple of times as it approached Madison Street. Each time, Leroy Davis' nerves reacted sharply and the four people kept their eyes trained on the gun in his hand. The jeep came to the intersection and slowed down. There was a conference between its two occupants -- helmeted soldiers in dark brown battle dress. Then the jeep moved on up Clark Street toward Lake. A choked sigh escaped from Nora's throat. Frank Brooks turned toward her. "Take it easy," he said. "We're not dead yet. I don't think he wants to kill us." The reply came from Minna. She spoke quietly. "I don't care. T can't stand any more of this. After all, we aren't animals. We're human beings and we have a right to live and die as we please." Minna walked toward Leroy Davis. "I'm not afraid of your gun any more. All you can do with it is kill me. Go ahead and do it." Minna walked up to Leroy Davis. He gaped at her and said, "You're crazy! Get back there. You're a crazy dame!" He fired the gun twice and Minna died appreciating the incongruity of his words. She went out on a note of laughter and as she fell, Jim Wilson, with an echoing animal roar, lunged at Leroy Davis. His great hand closed completely over that of Davis, hiding the gun. There was a muffled explosion and the bullet cut unnoticed through Wilson's palm. Wilson jerked the gun from Davis' weak grasp and hurled it away. Then he killed Davis. He did it slowly, a surprising thing for Wilson. He lifted Davis by his neck and held him with his feet off the floor. He squeezed Davis' neck, seeming to do it with great leisure as Davis made horrible noises and kicked his legs. Nora turned her eyes away, buried them in Frank Brooks' shoulder, but she could not keep the sounds from reaching her ears. Frank held her close. "Take it easy," he said. "Take it easy." And he was probably not conscious of saying it. "Tell him to hurry," Nora whispered. "Tell him to get it over with. "That's what he is -- an animal." Frank Brooks stared in fascination at Letov Davis' distorted, darkening face. It was beyond semblance of anything human now. The eyes bulged and the tongue came from his mouth as though frantically seeking relief. The animal sounds quieted and died away. Nora heard the sound of the body falling to the floor -- a limp, soft sound of finality. She turned and saw Jim Wilson with his hands still extended and cupped. The terrible hands from which the stench of a terrible life was drifting away into empty air. Wilson looked down at his handiwork. "He's dead," Wilson said slowly. He turned to face Frank and Nora. There was a great disappointment in his face. "That's all there is to it," he said, dully. "He's just -- dead." Without knowing it for what it was, Jim Wilson was full of the futile aftertaste of revenge. He bent down to pick up Minna's body. There was a small blue hole in the right cheek and another one over the left eye. With a glance at Frank and Nora, Jim Wilson covered the wounds with his hand as though they were not decent. He picked her up in his arms and walked across the lobby and up the stairs with the slow, quiet tread of a weary man. The sound of the jeep welled up again, but it was further away now. Frank Brooks took Nora's hand and they hurried out into the street. As they crossed the sidewalk, the sound of the jeep was drowned by a sudden swelling of the wailings to the northward. On still a new note, they rose and fell on the still air. A note of panic, of new knowledge, it seemed, but Frank and Nora were not paying close attention. The sounds of the jeep motor had come from the west and they got within sight of the Madison-Well intersection in time to see the jeep hurtle southward at its maximum speed. Frank yelled and waved his arms, but he knew he had been neither seen nor heard. They were given little time for disappointment however, because a new center of interest appeared to the northward. From around the corner of Washington Street, into Clark, moved three strange figures. There was a mixture of belligerence and distress in their actions. They carried odd looking weapons and seemed interested in using them upon something or someone, but they apparently lacked the energy to raise them although they appeared to be rather light. The creatures themselves were humanoid, Frank thought. He tightened his grip on Nora's hand. "They've seen us." "Let's not run," Nora said. "I'm tired of running. All it's gotten us is trouble. Let's just stand here." "Don't be foolish." "I'm not running. You can if you want to." Frank turned his attention back to the three strange creatures. He allowed natural curiosity full reign. Thoughts of flight vanished from his mind. "They're so thin -- so fragile," Nora said. "But their weapons aren't." "It's hard to believe, even seeing them, that they're from another planet." "How so? They certainly don't look much like us." "I mean with the talk, for so long, about flying saucers and space flight and things like that. Here they are, but it doesn't seem possible." "There's something wrong with them." This was true. Two of the strange beings had fallen to the sidewalk. The third came doggedly on, dragging one foot after the other until he went to his hands and knees. He remained motionless for a long time, his head hanging limply. Then he too, sank to the cement and lay still. The wailings from the north now took on a tone of intense agony -- great desperation. After that came a yawning silence. the military man said. "Or rather, natural forces defeated them. We certainly had little to do with it." Nora, Frank, and Jim Wilson stood at the curb beside a motorcycle. The man on the cycle supported it with a leg propped against the curb as he talked. "We saw three of them die up the street," Frank said. "Our scouting party saw the same thing happen. That's why we moved in. It's about over now. We'll know a lot more about them and where they came from in twenty-four hours." They had nothing further to say. The military man regarded them thoughtfully. "I don't know about you three. If you ignored the evacation through no fault of your own and can prove it -- " "There were four of us," Jim Wilson said. "Then we met another man. He's inside on the floor. I killed him." "Murder?" the military man said sharply. "He killed a woman who was with us," Frank said. "He was a maniac. When he's identified I'm pretty sure he'll have a past record." "Where is the woman's body?" "On a bed upstairs," Wilson said. "I'll have to hold all of you. Martial law exists in this area. You're in the hands of the army." people now, going about their business, pushing and jostling, eating in the restaurants, making electricity for the lights, generating power for the telephones. Nora, Frank, and Jim Wilson sat in a restaurant on Clark Street. "We're all different people now," Nora said. "No one could go through what we've been through and be the same." Jim Wilson took her statement listlessly. "Did they find out what it was about our atmosphere that killed them?" "They're still working on that, I think." Frank Brooks stirred his coffee, raised a spoonful and let it drip back into the cup. "I'm going up to the Chicago Avenue police station," Wilson said. Frank and Nora looked up in surprise. Frank asked, "Why? The military court missed it -- the fact you escaped from jail." "They didn't miss it I don't think. I don't think they cared much. I'm going back anyway." "It won't be much of a rap." "No, a pretty small one. I want to get it over with." He got up from his chair. "So long. Maybe I'll see you around." "So long." "Goodbye." Frank said, "I think I'll beat it too. I've got a job in a factory up north. Maybe they're operating again." He got to his feet and stood awkwardly by the table. "Besides -- I've got some pay coming." Nora didn't say anything. Frank said, "Well -- so long. Maybe I'll see you around." "Maybe. Goodbye." Frank Brooks walked north on Clark Street. He was glad to get away from the restaurant. Nora was a good kid but hell -- you didn't take up with a hooker. A guy played around, but you didn't stick with them. But it made a guy think. He was past the kid stage. It was time for him to find a girl and settle down. A guy didn't want to knock around all his life. Nora walked west on Madison Street. Then she remembered the Halstead Street slums were in that direction and turned south on Wells. She had nine dollars in her bag and that worried her. You couldn't get along on nine dollars in Chicago very long. There was a tavern on Jackson near Wells. Nora went inside. The barkeep didn't frown at her. That was good. She went to the bar and ordered a beer and was served. After a while a man came in. A middle aged man who might have just come into Chicago -- whose bags might still be at the LaSalle Street Station down the block. The man looked at Nora, then away. After a while looked at her again. Nora smiled. If earthlings are looking for an " incident " the gods of chance will furnish one. On Lobe, however, it might be merely a neglible -- Margin of Error By Richard Deeming Illustrated by Bob Martin small Negro boy in Porto Rico was hunting rats with an ancient .# caliber single-shot rifle. At one minute after twelve noon he looked up as the jet mail express from Communist Haiti zoomed by a quarter mile offshore and ten thousand feet high, en route to Communist Trinidad. As sometimes happens in imaginative childhood, the boy visualized the far-off jet express as a bird and raised his rifle to his shoulder. He said "bang!" and somehow the tiny rifle went off. To his horror the jet express immediately performed a loop and plunged into the sea. Within twenty-four hours, the small boy had been magnified into an anti-aircraft crew, and an incident had been manufactured. This, because an incident was desired by one Marshall Igor Matoshek -- Dictator of Russia -- and a great many other nations. Oa January #nd, #, Matoshek addressed, hy telepeople under his rule, plus the twohis rule, he simply announced that the warmongering bourgeois dictatorship which ruled the Tri-federation of North America and the Island of Porto Rico had vilely attacked the free and peace-loving democracies of the Communist International, and that a state of war existed. At the same time, an extremely unimportant conference was taking place on the planet Lobe, eight light years away from the planet Earth. Since the participants in this conference conversed by thought transference in a language not translatable into any language ever employed on Earth, and even impossible to indicate phonetically, only its substance can be given. For the same reason there is no way to express the true names of the participants, so for purposes of convenience they are arbitrarily designated Horace, George and Junior. In the extremely advanced civilization of Lobe, Horace was the Earthly equivalent of a kindergarten teacher. He was a tall, distinguished looking Lobian with nearly white antennae, but a beak unchipped by age and a firm, unwrinkled underside where it was unprotected by his shell. The position of George in Lobian economy has no counterpart on Earth, and therefore cannot be accurately described. Approximately, he was something like a skilled artisan, though his work was entirely mental, consisting of polishing the raw thoughts of workers higher in the Lobian professional scale. Biologically it is easier to put a finger on George, however. He was the father of Junior. Junior was the subject of the conference. "It is difficult and embarrassing to tell a parent his child is subnormal," Horace was transmitting, glancing first at Junior to make sure his receiving antenna was retracted as ordered. "I hope you understand the delicacy of my position." "Of course, professor," George radioed back glumly. "It's just that I had such hopes for the lad." His thought trailed off and he waved several tentacles vaguely. "Being a drone will at least be a pleasant life," Horace reassured him. "Junior will be happy. You have the consolation of the Act being in force anyway. Ten years ago he would have been destroyed." George absorbed this with small solace. Examining his son, he felt a twinge of compassion because the lad so resembled his dead mother. The same delicate sight-tubes, shining black beak and gentle curve to the brittle plate encasing his shoulders. He signalled the youngster to thrust out his receiving antenna. "Your teacher tells me you have a little trouble with your work, son," he transmitted gently. "Is there anything particular bothering you?" In the high frequency of the very young, Junior sent back, "It's my margin of . error, Father. I understand the principles of the problems, but my answers come out wrong. I seem to make mechanical mistakes." George glanced at Horace inquiringly, and the teacher motioned Junior to retract his antenna again. "An indication of an intermittent In oak in the thought pattern," he i laincd. "With our present knowledge, nothing can be done for him. He can absorb knowledge, of course. Under our modern teaching methods we can impart knowledge to an imbecile." His expression indicated he believed that the situation in this case. "But he could never be allowed to perform even the simplest problem except under supervision. Conceive what might happen if we even trained him to become merely a thought-link computer. He might insert an error whose end result could throw the entire universe out of balance." "Would you mind my watching while he worked some simple problem?" George radioed. "Of course not." Again the teacher signalled his student, and Junior's antenna obediently shot out. "Your father would like to see you at work, Junior. Take him into your room and explain the problem you were doing when we interrupted you." Then he paused and added a caution. "No practical application until I have checked your calculations, however." munist subjects watched the televised image of Marshall Igor Matoshek with stoic resignation and cheered with mechanical enthusiin the three republics of North America and on the Island of Porto Rico watched the same image with fear in their hearts. "We stand on the threshold of the greatest era in history," intoned the most important man in the world. "The outcome of the vast struggle in which we are about to engage will determine the destiny of this planet for all time. No single instance in the known past has ever been of such import." The President of the Tri-federation of North America did not wait for the talk to end. He lifted his telephone and ordered the H-bomb shields aloft at once. "The first problem is simple enough," Junior explained to his father. He indicated a small scanning screen, and twisted dials until a section of the heavens was visible. "One at a time I take each of the twenty-two solar systems outside of our own and compute what effect its mass and location has on the location of this planet. In other thoughts, if the particular solar system were not in existence, and consequently not exerting its gravitational pull on Lobe, what would Lobe's orbit around our sun be?" "I see," Gorge transmitted. "On that part I made no mistakes," Junior sent proudly. "Teacher checked all my answers himself." "Then his expression became glum. "The second part was to take each individual planet of each solar system and compute what effect its mass and location has, first, on its own solar system and, second, on our planet. I used the proper formulae and have all my answers, but teacher has not yet checked them." Examining the youngster's glum expression, George retracted his sending antenna and thought to himself, "The lad doesn't seem to have much faith in the answers he got." "At this moment the great guided missile emplacements at Paris, London, Honolulu and Rio de Janeiro are preparing to launch destruction at every principal city in North America and Porto Rico," Marshall Matoshek informed his audience. "The fire-control officers of these batteries are watching and listening to me just as you others are. The signal to fire will come from me right there on your screen." He paused to let this sink in. "The Communist International is averse to destruction where peaceful methods are possible, however. My aide-de-camp, General Serge Marik, is awaiting transoceanic connection with the President of the Tri-federation of North America at this very moment. If the three republics of North America and the Island of Porto Rico agree to surrender immediately and unconditionally, the order to fire will not be issued." The phone of the President of the Tri-federation of North America buzzed softly. He picked it up, listened for a moment and smiled bleakly at the serious-faced men gathered about his desk. One by one they shook their heads and smiled bleakly back at him. "Tell the old windbag to go to Hell," the President said. "The answers seem to be substantially correct," Horace conceded grudgingly. He glanced at George almost in apology. "The first time since school started his margin of error has been negligible. The exception which proves the rule." He bent his gray sight-tubes at the youngster. "Now compute for me the provable planet whose (Continued on page #) Under the new system of the Managerials, the fight was not for life but for death ! And great was the ingenuity of -- The Victor By Bryce Walton Illustrated by Kelly Freas fraction of a minute in which to die. He dropped through the tubular beams of alloydem steel and hung there, five thousand feet above the tiers and walkways below. At either end of the walkway crossing between the two power-hung buildings, he saw the plainclothes security officers running in toward him. He grinned and started to release his grip. He would think about them on the way down. His fingers wouldn't work. He kicked and strained and tore at himself with his own weight, but his hands weren't his own any more. He might have anticipated that. Some paralysis beam freezing his hands into the metal. He sagged to limpness. His chin dropped. For an instant, then, the fire in his heart almost went out, but not quite. It survived that one terrible moment of defeat, then burned higher. And perhaps something in that desperate resistance was the factor that kept it burning where it was thought no flame could burn. He felt the rigidity of paralysis leaving his arms as he was lifted, helped along the walkway to a security car. The car looked like any other car. The officers appeared like all the other people in the clockwork culture of the mechanized New System. Marquis sought the protection of personal darkness behind closed eyelids as the monorail car moved faster and faster through the high clean air. Well -- he'd worked with the Underground against the System for a long time. He had known that eventually he would be caught. There were rumors of what happened to men then, and even the vaguest, unsubstantiated rumors were enough to indicate that death was preferable. That was the Underground's philosophy -- better to die standing up as a man with some degree of personal integrity and freedom than to go on living as a conditioned slave of the state. He'd missed -- but he wasn't through yet though. In a hollow tooth was a capsule containing a very high-potency poison. A little of that would do the trick too. But he would have to wait for the right time... T he manager was thin, his face angular, and he matched up with the harsh steel angles of the desk and the big room somewhere in the Security Building. His face had a kind of emotion -- cold, detached, cynically superior. "We don't get many of your kind," he said. "Political prisoners are becoming more scarce all the time. As your number indicates. From now on, you'll be No. #." He looked at some papers, then up at Marquis. "You evidently found out a great deal. However, none of it will do you or what remains of your Underground fools any good." The Manager studied Marquis with detached curiosity. "You learned things concerning the Managerial that have so far remained secret." It was partly a question. Marquis' lean and darkly inscrutable face smiled slightly. "You're good at understatement. Yes -- I found out what we've suspected for some time. That the Managerial class has found some way to stay young. Either a remarkable longevity, or immortality. Of all the social evils that's the worst of all. To deny the people knowledge of such a secret." The Manager nodded. "Then you did find that out? The Underground knows? Well, it will do no good." "It will, eventually. They'll go on and someday they'll learn the secret." Marquis thought of Marden. Marden was as old as the New System of statism and inhumanity that had started off disguised as social-democracy. Three-hundred and three years old to be exact. The Manager said. "No. # -- you will be sent to the work colony on the Moon. You won't be back. We've tried re-conditioning rebels, but it doesn't work. A rebel has certain basic deviant characteristics and we can't overcome them sufficiently to make happy, well-adjusted workers out of you. However on the Moon -- you will conform. It's a kind of social experiment there in associative reflex culture, you might say. You'll conform all right." He was taken to a small, naked, gray-steel room. He thought about taking the capsule from his tooth now, but decided he might be observed. They would rush in an antidote and make him live. And he might not get a chance to take his life in any other way. He would try of course, but his knowledge of his future situation was vague -- except that in it he would conform. There would be extreme conditioned-reflex therapeutic techniques. And it would be pretty horrible. That was all he knew. He didn't see the pellet fall. He heard the slight sound it made and then saw the almost colorless gas hissing softly, clouding the room. He tasted nothing, smelled or felt nothing. He passed out quickly and painlessly. fice, and he knew he was on the Moon. The far wall was spherical and was made up of the outer shell of the pressure dome which kept out the frigid cold nights and furnace-hot days. It was opaque and Marquis could see the harsh black and white shadows out there -- the metallic edges of the far crater wall. This Manager was somewhat fat, with a round pink face and cold blue eyes. He sat behind a chrome shelf of odd shape suspended from the ceiling with silver wires. The Manager said. "No. #, here there is only work. At first, of course, you will rebel. Later you will work, and finally there will be nothing else. Things here are rigidly scheduled, and you will learn the routines as the conditioning bells acquaint you with them. We are completely self-sufficient here. We are developing the perfect scientifically-controlled society. It is a kind of experiment. A closed system to test to what extremes we can carry our mastery of associative reflex to bring man security and happiness and freedom from responsibility." Marquis didn't say anything. There was nothing to say. He knew he couldn't get away with trying to kill this particular Managerial specimen. But one man, alone, a rebel, with something left in him that still burned, could beat the system. He had to! "Our work here is specialized. During the indoctrination period you will do a very simple routine job in coordination with the cybernetics machines. There, the machines and the nervous system of the workers become slowly cooperative. Machine and man learn to work very intimately together. Later, after the indoctrination -- because of your specialized knowledge of food-concentrate preparation -- we will transfer you to the food-mart. The period of indoctrination varies in length with the individuals. You will be screened now and taken to the indoctrination ward. We probably won't be seeing one another again. The bells take care of everything here. The bells and the machines. There is never an error -- never any mistakes. Machines do not make mistakes." He was marched out of there and through a series of rooms. He was taken in by generators, huge oscilloscopes. Spun like a living tube through curtains of vacuum tube voltimeters, electronic power panels. Twisted and squeezed through rolls of skeins of hook-up wire. Bent through shieldings of every color, size and shape. Rolled over panel plates, huge racks of glowing tubes, elaborate transceivers. Tumbled down long surfaces of gleaming bakelite. Plunged through color-indexed files of resistors and capacitances... here machine and man learn to work very intimately together. As he drifted through the machine tooled nightmare, Marquis knew what he had been fighting all his life, what he would continue to fight with every grain of ingenuity. Mechanization -- the horror of losing one's identity and becoming part of an assembly line. He could hear a clicking sound as tubes sharpened and faded in intensity. The clicking -- rhythm, a hypnotic rhythm like the beating of his own heart -- the throbbing and thrumming, the contracting and expanding, the pulsing and pounding... the machines and the nervous system of the workers become slowly cooperative. Beds were spaced ten feet apart down both sides of a long gray metal hall. There were no cells, no privacy, nothing but beds and the gray metalene suits with numbers printed across the chest. His bed, with his number printed above it, was indicated to him, and the guard disappeared. He was alone. It was absolutely silent. On his right a woman lay on a bed. No. #. She had been here a long time. She appeared dead. Her breasts rose and fell with a peculiarly steady rhythm, and seemed to be coordinated with the silent, invisible throbbing of the metal walls. She might have been attractive once. Here it didn't make any difference. Her face was gray, like metal. Her hair was cropped short. Her uniform was the same as the man's on Marquis' left. The man was No. #. He hadn't been here so long. His face was thin and gray. His hair was dark, and he was about the same size and build as Marquis. His mouth hung slightly open and his eyes were closed and there was a slight quivering at the ends of the fingers which were laced across his stomach. "Hello," Marquis said. The man shivered, then opened dull eyes and looked up at Marquis. "I just got in. Name's Charles Marquis." The man blinked. "I'm -- I'm -- No. #." He looked down at his chest, repeated the number. His fingers shook a little as he touched his lips. Marquis said. "What's this indoctrination?" "You -- learn. The bells ring -- you forget -- and learn -- " "There's absolutely no chance of escaping?" Marquis whispered, more to himself than to #. "Only by dying," #I shivered. His eyes rolled crazily, then he turned over and buried his face in his arms. The situation had twisted all the old accepted values squarely around. Preferring death over life. But not because of any anti-life attitude, or pessimism, or defeatism. None of those negative attitudes that would have made the will-todie abnormal under conditions in which there would have been hope and some faint chance of a bearable future. Here to keep on living was a final form of de-humanized indignity, of humiliation, of ignominy, of the worst thing of all -- loss of one'sself -- of one's individuality. To die as a human being was much more preferable over continuing to live as something else -- something neither human or machine, but something of both, with none of the dignity of either. detected the capsule of poison in Marquis' tooth. The capsule contained ten grains of poison, only one of which was enough to bring a painless death within sixteen hours or so. That was his ace in the hole, and he waited only for the best time to use it. Bells rang. The prisoners jumped from their beds and went through a few minutes of calisthenics. Other bells rang and a tray of small tins of food-concentrates appeared out of a slit in the wall by each bed. More bells rang, different kinds of bells, some deep and brazen, others high and shrill. And the prisoners marched off to specialized jobs cooperating with various machines. You slept eight hours. Calisthenics five minutes. Eating ten minutes. Relaxation to the tune of musical bells, ten minutes. Work period eight hours. Repeat. That was all of life, and after a while Marquis knew, a man would not be aware of time, nor of his name, nor that he had once been human. Marquis felt deep lancing pain as he tried to resist the bells. Each time the bells rang and a prisoner didn't respond properly, invisible rays of needle pain punched and kept punching until he reacted properly. And finally he did as the bells told him to do. Finally he forgot that things had ever been any other way. Marquis sat on his bed, eating, while the bells of eating rang across the bowed heads in the gray uniforms. He stared at the girl, then at the man, #. There were many opportunities to take one's own life here. That had perplexed him from the start -- why hasn't the girl, and this man, succeeded in dying? And all the others? They were comparatively new here, all these in this indoctrination ward. Why weren't they trying to leave in the only dignified way of escape left? No. #I tried to talk, he tried hard to remember things. Sometimes memory would break through and bring him pictures of other times, of happenings on Earth, of a girl he had known, of times when he was a child. But only the mildest and softest kind of recollections... Marquis said. "I don't think there's a prisoner here who doesn't want to escape, and death is the only way out for us. We know that." For an instant, No. #I stopped eating. A spoonful of food concentrate hung suspended between his mouth and the shelf. Then the food moved again to the urging of the bells. Invisible pain needles gouged Marquis' neck, and he ate again too, automatically, talking between tasteless bites. "A man's life at least is his own," Marquis said. "They can take everything else. But a man certainly has a right and a duty to take that life if by so doing he can retain his integrity as a human being. Suicide -- " No. #I bent forward. He groaned, mumbled "Don't -- don't -- " several times, then curled forward and lay on the floor knotted up into a twitching ball. The eating period was over. The lights went off. Bells sounded for relaxation. Then the sleep bells bedarkness. Marquis lay there in the dark and he was afraid. He had the poison. He had the will. But he couldn't be unique in that respect. What was the matter with the others? All right, the devil with them. Maybe they'd been broken too soon to act. He could act. Tomorrow, during the work period, he would take a grain of the poison.