Security, and a sense of fellowship with the people around him. No culture ever existed where the ordinary people did not cooperate in some way for the common good and join together in some communal recreation." Halvor began to pace the floor. "And no community ever existed without warriors, without strife of some sort!" "Many did -- " "Isolated, tiny groups," Halvor said, "which were wiped out as soon as they were contacted by more virile people!" "Yes," the Health Director agreed. "You're right. Many of them were. But even in barbaric times few really believed that a man proved your arguments were better than his. "You talk of strife," he went on. "Insecure people, striking out in fear, destroying other individuals because they didn't know hew to live with them. Poor, sick folk. In their way they wanted peace and security too..." "Suppose we're invaded by beings from space?" Halvor demanded. "Earth wouldn't know how to fight!" "Suppose we're not attacked?" The Health Director smiled. "Wouldn't it be foolish to make an armed camp of the planet, just to ward off some unlikely invasion? Besides, happiness never killed a man, or destroyed his spirit. History has shown that the greatest fighters were always those who were fighting to protect their homes -- and a way of life that gave them personal happiness and security. And if happiness won't weaken an individual, why should it weaken a group of individuals -- or the whole human race?" Halvor was beginning to show signs of great discomfort, but the Health Director could see no way to rechannel the conversation. "A sense of accomplishment," Halvor said thickly. "Even an individual needs it. Life is dull!" "Dull? Isn't it just as exciting to win a foot race as a duel? Youth seeks adventure, admittedly. Well, they can hike through the Matto Grosso, or live in an igloo for a year, hunting seals. Or prospect for uranium on Ganymede. And adults lead full, rich lives, contributing part of their time to the welfare of the community, and the rest of it to their own private pursuits. "Accomplishment?" he went on. "Why don't you really study the accomplishments of your own time, Halvor -- I mean, Your Omnipotence? Some of the students from our Higher Learning center will be giving a series of lectures next week. Why not attend? And there will be a poetry contest in two weeks -- which reminds me! Halvor, your speeches indicate you have a feeling for words. Why not enter the poetry contest yourself? I'm sure you could compete wflth the best -- " Halvor interrupted him, crying in a loud, unfamiliar voice, "Remove this man and execute him at once!" It was a little while before he made it clear that what he wanted was to have the man forcibly deprived of life. The Health Director left the palace and, soon after, Halvor asked whether his request had been carried out. When an attempt was made to explain why such a request was hardly feasible, Halvor became violently unhappy and attempted to insert a table knife into one of the people present. It took three men to remove the knife from his hand. that day. The situation was becoming quite serious. If Halvor could behave that irrationally once, he might very well do it again. Waving a sharp implement as carelessly as he had, he might cut himself very badly one day, and even the best clotting salves might not be able to save him. The Health Director told of his visit and declared Halvor to be insane, an archaic term meaning that he had completely lost contact with reality, and could no longer be depended upon to take care of himself. The final decision was to permit Halvor to live as he had in his palace, to try to satisfy all of his wishes that did not badly interfere with the lives of other people, and to see to it that someone was near him at all times. All sharp things were removed from the palace, of course. The builders, aware of Halvor's infirmities, had constructed the palace without any acute edges anywhere which might cut Halvor's skin and cause him to bleed. For five more years Halvor lived this way, attempting occasionally to take either his own or someone else's life. In the fifth year, however, Halvor found himself momentarily alone, and threw himself from the imitation stone staircase, breaking his neck and dying immediately. That was the day, seven hundred and sixty-five years ago, when the first teleport materialized on Earth, bearing delegates from the Galactic Federation, and an invitation for Earth to join the other civilized peoples of the galaxy. You know that date, of course. What you may not have known till now was that the Federation had been observing us for some time, weighing our new civilization against our barbaric past. It was Earth's treatment of Halvor that decided them. Humanity was at last fully mature. In the excitement of the day, people forgot about Halvor, and when at last he was remembered it was too late. Halvor the Omnipotent, ruler of Earth, and the unknowing bearer of the galactic membership to his planet -- was dead. There was a long period of mourning. a bottle ever produced the likes of a hotel such as the Mahoney-Plaza!... Don't miss the chortles and laughs in Forsyte's Retreat , by Winston Marks, in the May issue -- out March #th! New Transistors in the transistor family. The tiny pea-sized germanium device that can amplify radio waves, music and speech has a brand new set of twin brothers for company. These newcomers, "tetrodes" and "pentodes" by name, are different from big brother only in that they have three and four wires respectively running from the germanium nugget instead of the two which the triode transistor has. This means the new transistors can do the work of two, and in some instances three, of the older variety, and that television sets of the future may be fantastically small as a result. These new twins will simplify electronic circuits and will probably find their first jobs in electronic computers. Since a transistor performance can't be standardized, and one tetrode or pentode can't be substituted for another without modifying the whole circuit they can't as yet be used in anything but a non-critical circuit such as the sort found in hearing aids. Radar circuits and many others are too complicated to be modified each time a new transistor needs to be installed, but future refinements of these miraculous little gadgets may make them suitable for most of the jobs now handled by the more cumbersome vacuum tube. Robot Car drop off to sleep and let your robot car do the job of driving for you. A model of this fool-proof car of the future has already been made and is now being tested by scientists at the Radio Corporation of America. This model robot car is guided by a wire which would be buried under the roadbed of a super highway. The wire sets up a magnetic field which is picked up by two coils placed on either side of the model car. If one of the (toils gets a stronger signal than its mate it is a warning that the car has swerved from its course and electronic steering equipment immediately guides the car back on its proper course. Signals coming back along the wire from a vehicle or obstruction ahead are passed to the steering mechanism and so prevent collisions and accidents. The five-foot model robot car can stop, start, steer itself along the road and, when necessary, pass another robot vehicle. The passing is accomplished by diagonal wires which shunt the car into the passing lane and then back to the right side of the road again all by way of the signals sent to the steering gear. Dr. V. K. Zworykin, head of the project, says there won't be any robot cars on the market in the very near future, but that devices to cope with bad weather steering and collision prevention are really just around the corner and should annually save thousands of lives. Spotlight into the Brain leled in the history of science, has been developed in study of the human brain. By the use of moist electrodes, fastened to the scalp and carrying no current except the tiny impulses emitted by the brain itself, a young British physiologist has been able to throw a spotlight deep into the human brain. The impulses are recorded on sensitive instruments which control a light flashing into the subject's eyes in a rhythm similar to the one pulsating from the brain. Another instrument called the toposcope which samples the electrical conditions in twenty or more areas of the brain and reproduces them in the changing glow of electronic tubes arranged in the same pattern as the brain areas, is the particular wonder child of this very new science. For example, a resting brain will show up dark at the front, but with rhythmic flickers of light at the back. An angry brain shows dim flickerings everywhere, while a brain stimulated by lights flashing into the subjects eyes Certain waves known as alpha, theta, and delta rhythms have been discovered in this way, each with its own stimulant. Alphas are pattern-seeking, thetas are indications of bad temper, and deltas are the deadeners of the conscious mind. These studies reveal not only new knowledge about the brain, but personality types and human relations as well. Although it is new as a science, a start has been made, and it is already helping doctors to understand mental illnesses. Crystals with Memory  -- ' half inch square with a memory that some humans might envy, are one of the newest developments of the Bell Telephone Laboratories. These flat crystals, a few thousandths of an inch thick, have a unique ability to remember vast amounts of information for an indefinite period of time. Each one of these ferroelectric crystals can store approximately two hundred and fifty bits of memory and answer questions put to it later by an automatic machine. Grown artificially from the chemical barium titanate, these flat little crystals receive tiny charges of electricity which represent the answers to questions the machine might ask. A plus charge is given for a yes answer and a negative charge for a no. Although the telephone dialling systems now in use have remembering devices, they require for more space than an equivalent system using barium titanate crystals would need. Because of this, telephone engineers believe that these artificially-grown crystals have a vast significance in the ever expanding Bell system, and should prove of inestimable value in the saving of space -- among other possibilities forseen as a use for this new "crystal with a memory". even luxuriously, deep in the woods and be as convenient to urban business as they are today commuting from the suburbs. This private home is not as independent as the multiple desert dwelling, but with the same type of electronic communications, helicopter and surface travel it is within easy emergency reach of all facilities in cities up to # miles distant. (Drawings by Ed Valigursky.) MOON SHUTTLE SHIPS -- The Moon is an easy target once a space station, outside the Earth's gravitational pull, is completed. These "shuttle" ships, spherical in shape and with enormous freight capacities, are built on the space station and launched from there. The shuttle above is departing for the Moon, loaded to capacity with supplies. The ship operates in a vacuum therefore fins are functional only as mounts and fuel tanks for control rockets, and for landing gear. Now turn to inside back cover. Ail Stories New and Complete Cover by Ed Valigursky: Refueling in Space  by Ed Valigursky  IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale April #th watch for in the reading of science fiction is politics. Not that the subject of political science is delved into too deeply, but we catch -- quite frequently as part of a background or occasionally as a solid premise -- glimpses into rather thoughtful projections of applied government. Sometimes it is the leadership of a surviving tribe dug deep into the mountains; often it is relative to the affairs of life in a city-state not too unlike those of the ancient Greeks ; or it might concern an endless galactic empire. And it is encouraging to see, in the majority of stories we've published, that the structure is rather logically worked out -- that in the conception of civilized life hundreds or thousands of years from now, political science is given some emphasis. Whether we agree with the author's version or not is beside the point. What is to the point is that the average civilian isn't giving half as much thought to the government by which we live today. Quite recently, newspapers, at least around this neck of the woods, were full of front-page stories concerning politics, personalities and parties which tended to lead the average individual to suspect something slightly stinky in the ole wood pile. Somebody was calling somebody else an old so-and-so and skeletons were dug out of closets and dusted off. Mud pies were tossed and antecedents were questioned. It was like a string of Chinese firecrackers going off in a three-ring circus. The citizenry was reading the newspapers like mad. But when the nice juicy copy died out, Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Public seemed to forget about the political hoopla and turned to "something else more important". Which is unfortunate. There ain't much of anything else that's more important. Politics (to repeat) is the science of government, and we live under government. We live under a government that affects our earnings, our economics, our homes and personal lives, our education, our health, our everything -- including that beautiful word "freedom". So it seems to me that this is a pretty good argument that politics is mighty important to all of us. by constant vigilance on the part of everyone. Our democratic form of government is run (supposedly so) by people elected to office. They are human, and therefore prone to all the frailties of human nature, and the only way to keep these duly elected servants walking the straight and narrow in the public behalf is by watching each and every one all the time. Today's inconceivable speed of communications and transportation has brought the peoples of the world closer and closer together. The globe we live on, instead of once-upon-a-time isolated villages and cities and nations, is now a conglomerate mass of international intercourse -- and intrigue. To maintain the health and identity of America -- that is, if we like living as we do today -- a study and observation of the men we elect to guide us through this maelstrom is an absolute must. Through this intermingling of the peoples of all nations, malcontents creep in. Either they want a handout or they want to wreck something beautiful and strong because they themselves haven't got it. So we have another good reason for being vitally interested in politics -- that of survival! Not only does this apply to the national scene but all the w r ay down to the hot stove in the country store, from the highest office in the land to the local dog-catcher. Suppose our present system of government is susceptible to too many foibles and incapabilities, how would the science fiction writer alert the populace and strengthen the sinews of government? Would it be an immediate issuance of white papers, blue papers, black papers and a flock of other papers the colors of the rainbow? Would it be a mud campaign or a series of court trials? Or would it be a carefully planned project taking generations to build and to perfect? My bet would be on the latter. The science fiction writer, aiming at a strong, healthy, democratic form of government, would start with the grooming of young men, of high school and college age, for local, state or national government. Government is a vast business, so these young men would be trained as thoroughly as are doctors, lawyers, bankers, engineers, scientists, etc. Each man would have to pass the "board" and serve his apprenticeship before being allowed to run for public office. Then, if elected, he would know what he was stepping into. Of course, he would have to get adjusted, but he would have the foundation and the proven loyalty to work at his task honestly aid in behalf of his own nation. in our diplomatic service -- why not a trained man for your local aiderman, councilman and mayor, or for your state legislature, or for the administrative and legislative branches of our national government. You don't find a good-time, jack-of-all-trades Charlie stepping into the trust department of a bank to handle the funds and estates of its customers -- do you? No, and the science fiction writer, using the America of today as his background, would never allow a greasy notebook filled with the names of hangers-on and "contacts" to qualify a man for public office -- not unless his story called for an unhappy ending. -- jlq The Earth was green and quiet. Nature had survived Man, and Man had survived himself. Then , one day , the great silvery ships broke the thousand-year-lost inheritance back to Earth... By Walter Miller, Jr. Illustrated by Kelly Freas " Why does your br'and sae drop wi' blude, Edward, Edivard? Why does your brand sae drop wi' blude, And why sae sad gang ye, O?" "O I hae kill'd my hawk sae gude, M it her, mither; O I hae kill'd my hawk sae gude, And I had nae mair but he, O." arose in the west at twilight -- gleaming slivers that reflected the dying sun as they lanced across the darkling heavens. A majestic fleet of squadrons in double-vees, groups in staggered echelon, they crossed the sky like gleaming geese, and the children of Earth came out of their whispering gardens to gape at the splendor that marched above them. There was fear, for no vessel out of space had crossed the skies of Earth for countless generations, and the children of the planet had forgotten. The only memories that lingered were in the memnoscripts, and in the unconscious kulturverlaengerung, of the people. Because of the latter half-memory, the people knew, without knowing why, that the slivers of light in the sky were ships, but there was not even a word in the language to name them. The myriad voices of the planet, they cried, or whispered, or chattered in awed voices under the elms... The piping whine of a senile hag: "The ancient gods! The day of the judging! Repent, repent... The panting gasp of a frightened fat man: "The alien! We're lost, we're lost! We've got to run for the hills!" The voice of the child: "See the pretty birdlights? See? See?" And a voice of wisdom in the councils of the clans: "The sons of men -- they've come home from the Star Exodus. Our brothers." The slivers of light, wave upon wave, crept into the eclipse shadow as the twilight deepened and the stars stung through the blackening shell of sky. When the moon rose, the people watched again as the silhouette of a black double-vee of darts slipped across the lunar disk. Beneath the ground, in response to the return of the ships, ancient mechanisms whirred to life, and the tech guilds hurried to tend them. On Earth, there was a suspenseful night, pregnant with the dissimilar twins of hope and fear, laden with awe, hushed with the expectancy of twenty thousand years. The stargoers -- they had come home. " Kulturverlaengerung " grunted the tense young man in the toga of an Analyst. He stood at one end of the desk, slightly flushed, staring down at the haughty wing leader who watched him icily from a seat at the other end. He said it again, too distinctly, as if the word were a club to hurl at the wingsman. " Kulturverlaengerung , that's why!" "I heard you the first time, Meikl," the officer snapped. "Watch your tongue and your tone!" A brief hush in the cabin as hostility flowed between them. There was only the hiss of air from the ventilators, and the low whine of the flagship's drive units somewhere below. The erect and elderly gentleman who sat behind the desk cleared his throat politely. "Have you any further clarifications to make, Meikl?" he asked. "It should be clear enough to all of you," the analyst retorted hotly. He jerked his head toward the misty crescent of Earth on the viewing screen that supplied most of the light in the small cabin. "You can see what they are, what they've become. And you know what we are." The two wingsmen bristled slightly at the edge of contempt in the analyst's voice. The elderly gentlemen behind the desk remained impassive, expressionless. The analyst leaned forward with a slow accusing glance that swept the faces of the three officers, then centered on his antagonist at the other end of the desk. "You want to infect them, Thaiile?" he demanded. The wingsman darkened. His fist exploded on the desktop. "Meikl, you're in contempt! Restrict yourself to answering questions!" "Yes, sir." "There will be no further breaches of military etiquette during the continuance of this conference," the elderly gentleman announced icily, thus seizing the situation. After a moment's silence, he turned to the analyst again. "We've got to refuel," he said flatly. "In order to refuel, we must land." "Yes, sir. But why not on Mars? We can develop our own facilities for producing fuel. Why must it be Earth?" "Because there will be some existing facilities on Earth, even though they're out of space. The job would take five years on Mars." The analyst lowered his eyes, shook his head wearily. "I'm thinkthey worth considering, sir?" "I've got to consider the men in my command, Meikl. They've been through hell. We all have." "The hell was our own making, baron." "Meikl!" "Sorry, sir." Baron ven Klaeden paused ominously, then: "Besides, Meikl, your predictions of disaster rest on certain assumptions not known to be true. You assume that the recessive determinants still linger in the present inhabitants. Twenty thousand years is a long time. Nearly a thousand generations. I don't know a great deal about culturetics, but I've read that kulturverlaengerung reaches a threshhold of extinction after about a dozen generations, if there's no restimulation." "Only in laboratory cultures, sir," sighed the analyst. "Under rigid control to make certain there's no restimulant. In practice, in a planet-wide society, there's constant accidental restimulation, unconsciously occuring. A determinant gets restimulated, pops back to original intensity, and gets passed on. In practice, a kult'laenger linkage never really dies out -- although, it can stay recessive and unconscious." "That's too bad," a wingsman growled sourly. "We'll wake it up, won't we?" "Let's not be callous," the other wingsman grunted in sarcasm. "Analyst Meikl has sensitivities." The analyst stared from one to the other of them in growing consternation, then looked pleadingly at the baron. "Sir, I was summoned here to offer my opinions about landing on Earth. You asked about possible cultural dangers. I've told you." "You discussed the danger to earthlings." "Yes, sir." "I meant 'danger' to the personnel of this fleet -- to their esprit, their indoctrination, their groupefficiency. I take it you see none." "On the contrary, I see several," said the analyst, coming slowly to his feet, eyes flashing and darting among them. "Where were you born, Wingman?" he asked the officer at the oppisite end of the desk. "Lichter Six, Satellite," the officer grunted after a moment of irritable silence. "And you?" "Omega Thrush," said the other wingsman. All knew without asking that the baron was born in space, his birthplace one of the planetoid citystates of the Michea Dwarf. Meikl looked around at them, then ripped up his own sleeve, unsheathed his rank-dagger, and pricked his forearm with the needle point. A red droplet appeared, and he wiped at it with a forefinger. "It's common stuff, gentlemen. We've shed a lot of it. And each of us is a walking sackful of it." He paused, then turned to touch the point of his dagger to the viewer, where it left a tiny red trace on the glass, on the bright crescent of Earth, mist-shrouded, chastely wheeling her nights into days. "It came from there," he hissed. "She's your womb, gentlemen. Are you going back?" "Are you an analyst or a dramatist, Meikl?" the baron asked sharply, hoping to relieve the sudden chill in the room. "This becomes silly." "If you land on her," Meikl promised ominously, "you'll go away with a fleet full of hate." Meikl's arm dropped to his side. He sheathed his dagger. "Is my presence at this meeting still imperative, sir?" he asked the baron. "Have you anything else to say?" "Yes -- don't land on Earth." "That's a repetition. No further reasons? -- in terms of danger to ourselves?" The analyst paused. "I can think of nothing worse that could happen to us," he said slowly, "than just being what we already are." He snapped his heels formally, bowed to the baron, and stalked out of the cabin. "I suggest," said a wingsman, "that we speak to Frewek about tightening up the discipline in the Intelligence section. That man was in open contempt, Baron." "But he was also probably right," sighed the graying officer and nobleman. "Sir -- !" "Don't worry, Wingsman, there's nothing else to do. We'll have to land. Make preparations, both of you -- and try to make contact with surface. I'll dictate the message." When the wingsmen left, it was settled. The baron arose with a sigh and went to peer morosely at the view of Earth below. Very delicately, he wiped the tiny trace of blood from the glass. She was a beautiful world, this Earth. She had spawned them all, as Meikl said -- but for this, the baron could feel only bitterness toward her. But what of her inhabitants? I'm past feeling anything for them, he thought, past feeling for any of the life-scum that creeps across the surface of a world, any world. We'll go down quickly, and take what we need quickly, and leave quickly. We'll try not to infect them, but they've already got it in them, the dormant disease, and any infection will be only a recurrence. Nevertheless, he summoned a priest to his quarters. And, before going to the command deck, he bathed sacramentally as if in preparation for battle. "Your hawk's blude was never sae red, Edward, Edward; Your hawk's blude was never sae red, My dear son, I tell thee, O" "O I hae kill'd my red-roan steed, M it her, mither; O I hae kill'd my red roan steed, That erst was sae fair and free, O" False dawn was in the east when the slivers of light appeared once again out of the eclipse shadow to rake majestically across the heavens, and again the children of Earth crowded in teeming numbers from the quiet gardens to chatter their excitement at the wonder in the sky. But this time, a message came. The men of the tech clans who tended the newly activated mechanisms heard it, and the mechanisms memorized it, and played it again and again for the people, while the linguists puzzled over the unidentified language used in the transmission. ously for an hour, followed by an hour of silence, and then by another hour of repetition. The linguists were unable to discern meanings. Thousands of memorizers were consulted, but none knew the words of the harsh voice from the ships. At last, the sages consulted the books and memnoscripts in the ancient vaults, pouring over tomes that had been buried for countless centuries. After hours of hurried study... "It is found, it is found, a tongue of the ancients!" a joyous cry in the glades and the garden pathways. Happily, the sages recorded the linguistic structure of the forgotten tongue on memnoscript, and gave it to a servo translator. Outmoded mechanisms were being brought out of wraps and prepared for use. The servos supplied a translation of the message, and the sages studied it. "It is badly understood," was the curious mutter along the garden pathways. "Many words have no words to match them, nor any thoughts that are similar," was the only explanation the sages could give. In translation the message seemed meaningless, or unfathomable. Only one thing was clear. The sons of Man meant to descend again upon the world of their ancestors. There was a restless unease in the gardens, and groups of elders gathered in the conference glades to mutter and glance at the sky. "Invite our brothers to land," was the impetuous cry of the young, but there were dissenters. In the Glade of Sopho, a few thoughtful clansmen of Pedaga had gathered to muse and speak quietly among themselves, although it was not ordinarily the business of tutors to consider problems that confronted society as a whole, particularly problems arising outside society itself. The Pedaga were teachers of th.e very young, and deliberately kept themselves childlike in outlook in order to make fuller contact with the children in their charge. "I think we should tell them to go away," said Letha, and looked around at the others for a response. She got nothing in reply but a flickering glance from Marrita, who sat morosely on a cool rock by the spring, her chin on her bare knees. Evon gave her a brief polite smile, to acknowledge the sound of her voice, but he returned almost at once to absently tearing twigs and glancing up at the bits of sky that showed through the foliage of the overhanging trees. lak and Karrn were whispering together at the far end of the glade, and had not heard her. Letha shrugged and leaned back against the tree trunk again, sitting spraddle-legged this time in the hope of catching Evon's eye. She was a graceful girl, and while gracefulness is sometimes feline, Letha's was more nearly kittenish. She was full-bodied and soft, but wellshaped in spite of a trace of plumpness. Thick masses of black hair fell over baby-skin shoulders in a pleasing contrast, and while her face was a bit too round, it radiated a gentle, winning grin, and the sympathetic gaze of gray-blue eyes. Now she seemed ready to pout. Evon remained self-absorbed. "I think we should tell them to go away," she repeated a little sharply. "They'll all be big and swashbuckling and handsome, and the children will become unmanageable as soon as they see them. All the little girls will swoon, and all the little boys will want to go with them." Evon ganced at her briefly. "It's up to the elders of the Geoark," he muttered without interest, and prepared to return to his own meditations. "And all the big girls will run away with them," she purred with a tight smile, and stretched a languorous leg out in front of her to waggle her foot. Evon shot her a quick glance, held it for a moment, then looked skyward again. She pursed her lips in irritation and glared at him. Gradually, she forgave him. Evon was distraught. He must be -- because she hadn't seen him sit still this long in years. He was always doing something, or looking for something to do. It wasn't like Evon just to sit still and think. He was a restless, outgoing fellow, nearly always reacting boisterously, or laughing his staccato laugh. Now he just sat there and looked puzzledly in the direction of the sky-fleet. Looking puzzled didn't fit his face, somehow. It was a bony brown face, slightly oily, with a long narrow jaw that jutted forward like a plowshare under an elastic smirk. It was a rubbery kind of a face, the kind that could twist into horrid masks for the amusement of the young. Now it just drooped. She stirred restlessly, driven to seek sympathetic understanding. "You wonder what it's like, Evon?" she asked. He grunted at her quizzically and shook his head. "To be one of the children of the Exodus, I mean," she added. "Me? What are you thinking of, Letha?" "Of your face. It looks suddenly like a nomad's face. You remind me of an old schnorrer who used to wander through our gardenboro every year to play his fiddle, and sing us songs, and steal our chickens." "I don't fiddle." "But your eyes are on the skyfleet." Evon paused, hovering between irritation and desire to express. "It's strange," he murmured at last. "It's as if I know them -- the starbirds, I mean. Last night, when I saw them first, it was like looking at something I expected to happen... or... or..." "Something familiar?" "Yes." "You think he has the genemnemon, Marrita?" she asked the blonde girl who sat on the cool rock by the spring. Marrita looked up from dabbling her toes in the icy trickle. "I don't believe in the genemnemon. My great grandfather was a thief." "How silly! What's that to do with it?" "He buried a fortune, they say. If there was a genemnemon, I'd remember where he buried it, wouldn't I?" She pouted, and went back to dabbling a club toe in the spring. Evon snorted irritably and arose to stretch. "We lie around here like sleepy pigs!" he grumbled. "Have the Pedaga nothing to do but wait on the Geoark to make up its mind?" "What do you think they'll do?" "The Geoark? Invite the strangers to land. What else could they do?" "Tell them to go away." "And suppose they chose not to go?" The girl looked bewildered. "I can't imagine anyone refusing the Geoark." "Maybe they've got their own Geoark. Why should they cooperate with ours?" "Two Geoarks? What a strange idea." "Is it strange that you and I should have two brains? Or were you aware that I have one too?" "Evon! What a strange idea." He seized her by the ankles and dragged her squealing to the spring, then set her down in the icy trickle. Marrita moved away, grumbling complaints, and Letha snatched up a switch and chased him around the glade, shrieking threats of mayhem, while Evon's laughter broke the gloomy air of the small gathering, and caused a few other Pedaga to wander into the clearing from the pathways. "I think we should prepare a petition for the Geoark," someone suggested. "About the skyfleet? And who knows what to say?" "I'm afraid," said a girl. "Somehow I'm suddenly afraid of them." "Our brothers from the Exodus? But they're people -- such as you and I." So went the voices. After an hour, a crier came running through the glade to read another message received from the skyfleet. This was even more mystifying than the previous one, even less meaningful in translation. One thing was clear, however: the fleet was going to land, without invitation. Embarrassed, the elders of the Geoark immediately called the tech clans. "Gan you revive the devices that speak across space?" they asked. "They are revived," answered the tech clans. "Then let us speak to our brothers from space." And so it was that the people of the gardens of Earth sang out: "I'm afraid Earth will remember more than it wants to," growled Ernstli Baron ven Klaeden, as he issued the command to blast into an atmospheric-braking orbit. And there was thunder in a cloudless sky. "O your steed was auld and ye hae mair, Edward, Edward. O your steed was auld and ye hae mair , And some other dule ye dree, O." "O I hae kill'd my ain father dear, Mither, mither ; O I hae kill'd my ain father dear, Alas and woe is me, O." rules of invasion strategy for semi-civilized planets, the fleet separated itself into three groups. The first group fell into atmospheric braking; the second group split apart and established an "orbital shell" of criscrossing orbits, timed and interlocking, at eight hundred miles, to guard the descent of the first wave of ships, while the third wave remained in battle formation at three thousand miles as a rear guard against possible space attack. When the first wave had finished braking, it fell into formation again and flew as aircraft in the high stratosphere, while the second wave braked itself, and the third wave dropped into the orbital shell. From the first wave, a single ship went down to land, and its telecameras broadcast a view of a forest garden, slightly charred for a hundred yards around the ship, with fires blazing along its edges. "No signs of the natives yet," came the report. "No signs of technology. No evidence of hostility." A second ship descended to land a mile from the first. Its telecamera caught a fleeting glimpse of a man waving from a hilltop, but nothing more. One at a time the ships came, with weapon locks open and bristling with steel snouts. The ships came down at one-mile intervals, the first wave forming a circle that enclosed an area of forty-six hundred square miles. The second wave came down to land in a central circle of fifteen miles diameter. The third wave remained in its orbital shell, where it would stand guard as long as the fleet was on the ground. In accordance with the rules of officer's conduct, Baron ven Klaeden, who had ordered the landing, was the first to expose himself to the enveloping conditions outside the flagship. He stood in an open lock, sniffing the autumn air of Earth in late afternoon. It was full of jet-fire smoke, and smelled of burning brush. The automatic extinguishers had quenched the flames, but the blackened trees and brush still roasted and sparked and leaked smoke across the land. Somewhere a bird was singing through the sunlit haze. Baron ven Klaeden recognized the sound as made by a living thing, and wondered if the recognition was born into his bones. Three hundred and fifty yards to the north, a wingship towered in the sun, its guns trained outward from the inner circle, and to the south, another wingship. The baron glanced down at the earth beneath the flagship. The jets had reduced to ashes something that might have been a low wooden structure. He shrugged, and glanced across the blackened area toward the orderly forest. Trees and shrubs, and a carpet of green turf below, broken here and there by rain-worn rocks and clusters of smaller fragile leafy stuff that might be food-plants. Vivid splashes of color blossomed in the shady forest, scarlets and blues lived in profusion in the foliage of the shrubbery. Some of the trees were living masses of tiny flowers, and when the wind stirred them, petals showered to the ground in fragrant gusts. The wind changed, and the air that breathed about the commander's face was full of perfume. I feel nothing, he thought. Here is beauty and warmth, here is the home of Man, and almost an Eden, but I feel nothing. It is just another mote that circles a minor sun, and to me it is only an exploitable supply dump of Nature, a place to accomplish Procedure #A, "Refueling Method for Terrestroid Planets Without Facilities, Native Labor Exploitable." It was only a way-station on the long long road from Scorpius to Ursa, and it meant nothing, nothing at all. It had changed too much. Millenia ago, when the Star Exodus had burst forth to carry Man halfway across the galaxy, things had been different. A few colonies had kept accurate histories of Earth intact, and when the Transpace Empire had gathered itself into social integration, nearly five thousand years ago, the histories had been made universally available. The baron had studied them, but from the viewpoint of the spacer, the history of Humanity had ceased in any way to be associated with Earth after the Star Exodus. Man was a space creature, a denizen of the interstellum -- or had been, before the War of Secession -- and when history moved into space, Earth was a half-remembered hamlet. Ven Klaeden had seen the Earth-vistas that the historians had reconstructed for the museums -- vistas of roaring industrial cities, flaming battlegrounds, teeming harbors and spaceports. The cities were gone, and Earth had become a carefully tended Japanese garden. a lessening of the anxiety that had gnawed at him since the analyst Meikl had predicted dire consequences after the landing. The cultural blood of Man had diverged into two streams so vastly different that no intermingling seemed possible to him. It would be easy, he decided, to keep the informational quarantine. The order had already been issued. "All personnel are forbidden to attempt the learning of the current Earthtongue, or to teach any Empireculture language to the natives, or to attempt any written communication with them. Staff-officers may communicate only under the provisions of Memorandum J-#-G. The possession of any written or recorded material in the native tongue, and the giving of written material to the natives, shall be taken as violations of this order. No sign language or other form of symbolic communication shall be used. This order shall be in force until Semantics section constructs a visual code for limited purposes in dealing with the natives. Staff officers are hereby authorized to impose any penalty ranging to death upon offenders, and to try any such cases by summary courts martial. Junior officers authorized to summarily arrest offenders. Effective immediately. Ven Klaeden, Comm." It would keep any interchange to an absolute minimum, he thought. And Semantics had been ordered to attempt construction of a visual language in which only the most vital and simple things could be said. Meanwhile, the staff could attempt to utilize the ancient Anglo-Germanic tongue in which the messages had been exchanged. The baron had started to turn back into the lock when his eye caught a flash of motion near the edge of the forest. Reflexively, he whirled and crouched, gun flickering into his hand. His eyes probed the shrubs. Then he saw her, half hidden behind a tree trunk -- a young girl, obviously frightened, yet curious to watch the ships. While he stared at her, she darted from one trunk to the next closer one. She was already approaching the edge of the blackened area. The bqron shot a quick glance at the radiation indicators on the inner wall of the airlock. The instantaneous meter registered in the red. The induced radioactivity in the ground about the base of the ship's jets was still too high. The rate-ofdecrease meter registered a decrement of point ten units per unit. That meant it wouldn't be safe for the crew to leave ship for twentythree minutes, and that the girl had better stay back. "Keep clear ! # he bellowed from the airlock, hoping to frighten her. She saw him for the first time, then. Instead of being frightened, she seemed suddenly relieved. She came out into the open and began walking toward the ship, wearing a smile and gazing up at the lock. "Go back, you little idiot ! # Her answer was a brief sing-song chant and another smile. She kept coming -- into the charred area. The gun exploded inJiis fist, and the bullet ricocheted from the ground near her feet. She stopped, startled, but not sensing hostility. The gun barked again. The bullet shattered a pebble, and it peppered her legs. She yelped and fled back into the green garden. He stood there staring after her for a moment, his face working slowly. She had been unable to understand his anger. She saw the ships, and was frightened but curious. She saw a human, and was reassured. Any human. But was what she saw really human any longer, the baron asked himself absently. He grunted scornfully, and went back through the lock. It was easier, even on the ground, to communicate with the elders of the Geoark by radio, since both parties had set up automatic translators to translate their own tongues into the old Anglo-German which was a mutually recorded dead language. "We ha.ve neutralized a circle of land of thirty-one mile radius," ven Klaeden reported to the elders. "If our selection of this region is unfortunate, we are open to discussion of alternatives. However, our measurements indicated that the resources of this area make it best for our purposes." "Your landing caused only minor damage, brethren," replied the gentle voice of the Geoark. "You are welcome to remain as you are." "Thank you. We consider the occupied area to be under our military jurisdiction, and subject to property seizures. It will be a restricted area, closed to civilian population." "But brethren, thousands of people live in the gardens you have surrounded!" "Evacuate them." "I don't understand." "Evacuate them. Make them get out." "My translator is working badly." The baron turned away from the mike for a moment and grunted to the colonel in command of ground operations. "Start clearing the occupied zone. Get the population out unless they'll work for us." "How much notice?' The baron paused briefly. "Fifty hours to pack up, plus one additional hour for each mile the fellow has to stump it to the outer radius." "My translator is working badly," the voice of the elder was parroting. "Look," the baron grunted at the mike. "All we want is to accomplish what we came here for, and then get out -- as quickly as possible. We don't have much time to be polite. I invite the elders of the Geoark to confer in my flagship. We'll try to make everything clear to you. Is this agreed?" "My translator is working badly." "Aren't you getting anything?" A pause, then : "I understand that you wish us to come to the place where the skyfleet rests." "Correct." "But what of the welcome we have made for our brethren in the feast-glades?" "I shall dispatch flyers to pick you up immediately. Unless you have aircraft of your own." "We have no machinery but the self-sustaining mechanisms in the Earth." "Any of your population understand the mechanisms?" "Certainly, brother." "Then bring technicians. They'll be best able to understand what we want, and maybe they can make it clear to you." "As you wish, brother." The baron terminated the contact and turned to his staff with a satisfied smile. "I think we shall have what we need and be gone quickly," he said. "The . elder took it well. They must be afraid of us." "Respectful awe is more like it," the baron grunted. "I suggest the answer is in the word 'brethren,' " came a voice from the back of the room. "Meikl! What are you doing in here?" ven Klaeden barked irritably. "You called my department for a man. My department sent me. Shall I go back?" "It's up to you, Analyst. If you can keep your ideals corked and be useful." Meikl bowed stiffly. "Thank you, sir. "Having it in mind that our only objective is to go through the tooling-mining-fueling cycle with a minimum of trouble and time -- have you got any suggestions?" "About how to deal with the natives?" "Certainly... but with the accent on our problems." Meikl paused to snap the tip from an olophial and sniffed appreciatively at the mildly alkaloid vapor before replying. "From what we've gathered through limited observation, I think we'd better gather some more, and do our suggesting later." "That constitutes your entire opinion?" "Not quite. About the question of recessive kulturverlaengerung  "Our problems, I said!" the commander snapped. "It's likely to be our problem, sir." "How?" "In Earth culture at the time of the Exodus, there were some patterns we'd regard as undesirable. We can't know whether we're still carrying the recessive patterns or not. And we don't know whether the patterns are still dominant in the natives. Suppose we get restimulated." "What patterns do you mean?" "The Exodus was a mass-desertion, in one sense, Baron." A moment of hush in the room. "I see what you mean," the commander grunted. "But 'desertion' is a pattern of action, not a transmittable determinant." Meikl shook his head. "We don't know what is a transmittable determinant until after it's happened." He paused. "Suppose there's some very simple psychic mechanism behind the 'pioneer' impulse. We don't feel it, but our ancestors did, and we might have recessive traces of it in our kulturverlaengerung lines." A wingman coughed raucously. "To be blunt with you, Meikl... I think this is a lot of nonsense. The whole concept is far-fetched." "What, the kult'laenger lines?" "Exactly." The wingsman snorted. "How could things like that get passed along from father to son. If you people'd stop the mystical gibberish, and deal in facts..." "Do you regard parent-child rapport as a fact?" Meikl turned to stare absently out a viewing port at the trees. "You mean the telepathic experiments with infants? I don't know much about it." "Seventy years ago. On Michsa Three. A hundred parents were given intensive lessons and intensive practice in playing a very difficult skill game... before they became parents. They did nothing but play the game for three years. Then their babies were taken away from them at the age of one year. Brought up institutionally. There was a control group -- another hundred whose parents never heard of the skill game." "Go on." "So, when the children were ten years old, they did learning-speed tests on all two hundred." "Learning the game, you mean?" "Right. The children whose parents had learned it came out way ahead. So far ahead that it was conclusive. Sometime during pregnancy and the first year, the kids had picked up a predisposition to learn the patterns of the game easily." "So?" "So -- during infancy, a child is beginning to mirror the patterns of the parental mind -- probably telepathically, or something related. He doesn't 'inherit it' in the genes, but there's an unconscious cultural mechanism of transmittal -- and it's an analog of heredity. The kulturverlaengerung -- and it can linger in a family line without becoming conscious for many generations." "How? If they hadn't taught the children to play the game..." "If they hadn't, it'd still be passed on -- as a predisposition-talent -- to the third and fourth and Nth generation. Like a mirror-image of a mirror-image of a mirror-image... or a memory of a memory of a memory..." "This grows pedantic, and irrelevant," the baron growled. "What are the chances of utilizing native labor?" "And whatten penance will we dree for that, Edward, Edward ? Whatten penance will ye dree for that? My dear son, now tell me, O . # "Ell set my feet in yonder boat, Mither, mither; Yll set my feet in yonder boat, And YU fare over the sea, O." plished, after six months of toil. Baltun Meikl, Analyst Gulturetic of Intelligence Section stood on the sunswept hill, once forested, but now barren except for the stumps of trees, and watched the slow file of humanity that coursed along the valley, bearing the hand-hewn ties that were being laid from the opening of the mine shaft to the ore dump. Glittering ribbons of steel snaked along the valley, and ended just below him, where a crew of workmen hammered spikes under the watchful eye of a uniformed foreman. In tlie distance, the central ring of grounded ships dominated the land. Spacers and natives labored together, to lend an impression of egalitarian cooperation under the autocracy of the officer class. "How good it is for brethren to be reunited," Meikl's native interpreter murmured, in the facile tongue devised by Semantics Section for use by staff officers and Intelligence men in communicating with the natives. He stared at her profile for a moment, as she watched the men in the valley. Was she really that blind? Were all of them? Had they no resistance at all to exploitation, or any concept for it? Meikl had learned as much as he could of the socio-economic matrix of the static civilization of the present Earthlings. He had gone into their glades and gardens and seen the patterns of their life, and he wondered. Life was easy, life was gay, life was full of idle play. Somehow, they seemed completely unaware of what they had done to the planet in twenty thousand years. One of the elders had summed up, without meaning to, the entire meaning of twenty millenia, with the casual statement: "In our gardens, there are no weeds , # and it applied to the garden of human culture almost as well as it applied to the fauna and flora of the planet. This "weedlessness" had not been the goal of any planned project, but rather, the inevitable result of age-old struggles between Man and Nature on a small plot of land. When Man despoiled Nature, and slaughtered her children. Nature could respond in two ways : she could raise up organisms to survive in spite of Man, and she could raise up organisms to survive in the service and custody of Man. She had done both, but the gardener with his weed-hoe and his insect spray and his vermin exterminators had proved that he could invent new weapons faster than Nature could evolve tenacious pests, and eventually the life forms of Earth had been emasculated of the tendency to mutate into disobedient species. Nature had won many bloody battles; but Man had won the war. Now he lived in a green world that seemed to offer up its fruits to him with only a minimum of attention from Man. Nature had learned to survive in the presence of Man. Yet the natives seemed unaware of the wonder of their Eden. There was peace, there was plenty. This, he thought, could be the answer to their lack of resistance in the face of what seemed to Meikl to be sheer seizure and arrogant exploitation by Baron ven Klaeden and his high command. In a bounteous world, there were no concepts of "exploitation" or "property seizure" or "authoritarianism". The behaviour of the starmen appeared as strange, or fascinating, or laughable, or shocking to such as the girl who stood beside him on the hill -- but not as aggressive nor imperious. When a foreman issued an order, the workman accepted it as a polite request for a favor, and did it as if for a friend. Fortunately, ven Klaeden had possessed at least the good sense to see to it that the individual natives were well treated by the individual officers in charge of tasks. There had been few cases of interpersonal hostility between natives and starmen. The careful semantics of the invented sign-language accomplished much in the way of avoiding conflicts, and the natives enthusiastically strived to please. He glanced at the girl again, her dark hair whipping in the breeze. Lovely, he thought, and glanced around to see that no one was near. "You belong to another, Letha?" he asked. She tossed him a quick look with pale eyes, hesitated. "There is a boy named Evon..." He nodded, lips tightening. Stop it, you fool, he told himself. You can't make love to her. You've got to leave with the rest of them. "But I don't really belong to him," she said, and reddened. "Letha, I... " "Yes, Meikl." "Nothing. I'm lonely, I guess." Her eyes wandered thoughtfully toward the ships. "Meikl, why will you tell us nothing of space -- how you've lived since the Exodus?" "We are an evil people." "Not so." She touched his arm, and looked up at him searchingly. "What is it you wish to know?" "Why will you never return to your home?" "To space -- but we shall." "To the worlds of your birth, I mean." He stiffened slightly, stared at her. "What makes you think we won't?" he asked, a little sharply. "Will you?" So there were leaks after all, he thought. After six months, many things would be communicated to the natives, even under strictest security. "No," he admitted, "we can't go back to the worlds of our birth." "But why? Where are your women and children?" He wanted to tell her, to see her turn and flee from him, to see the natives desert the project and keep to their forests until the ships departed. There had been a translator set up between the Anglo-Germanic and the present native tongue, and he had fed it the word "war". The single word had brought five minutes of incomprehensible gibberish from the native tongue's output. There was no concept to equate it to. "There is blood on our hands," he grunted, and knew immediately he had said too much. She continued to stare at the ships. "What are the metal tubes that point from the front and the sides of the ships, Meikl?" There was no word for "guns" or "weapons". "They hurl death, Letha." "How can 'death be hurled ?" Meikl shook himself. He was saying too much. These are the children of the past, he reminded himself, the same past that had begotten the children of space. The same traces of the ancient kulturverlaengerung would live in their neural patterns, however recessive and subliminal. One thing he knew: sometime during the twenty millenia since the Exodus, they had carefully rooted out the vestigial traces of strife in their culture. The records had been systematically censored and rewritten. They were unaware of war and pogroms and persecution. History had forgotten. He decided to explain to her in terms of the substitute concepts of her understanding. "There were twelve worlds, Letha, with the same Geoark. Five of them wished to break away and establish their separate Geoark. There was a contention for property." "Was it settled?" she asked innocently. He nodded slowly. It was settled, he thought. We razed them and diseased them and interpested them and wrecked their civilizations, and revolutions reduced the remains to barbarism. If a ship landed on a former planet of the empire, the crew would be lynched and murdered. Under ven Klaeden, the ships of the Third Fleet were going to seek out an alleged colony in Ursa, to sell ships, tools, and services to a minor technology that was approaching its own space-going day, in return for immigration and nationalization rights -- a young civilization full of chaotic expansion. "There is much you could not understand, Letha,' he told her. "Our cultures are different. All societies go through three phases, and yours has passed through them all -- perhaps into a fourth and final." "And yours, Meikl?" "I don't know. First there is the struggle to integrate in a hostile environment. Then, after integration, comes an explosive expansion of the culture -- conquest, a word unknown to you. Then a withering of the mother-culture, and the rebellious rise of young cultures." "We were the mother-culture, Meikl?" He nodded. "And the Exodus was your birth-giving." "Now we are old and withered, Meikl?" He looked around at the gardenforests in the distance. A second childhood? he wondered. Was there a fourth phase? -- a final perpetual youth that would never reach another puberty? He wondered. The coming of the sky-fleet might be a cultural coitus, but could there be conception? wandering along the ridge, speaking in low tones and gazing down toward the valley. There was a casual exchange of salutes as they approached the girl and the analyst. The officers wore police armbands, and they asked for Meikl' s fraternization permit, using the spacer's tongue. "Deserter troubles?" he asked, as they returned his papers. "Nineteen last week," said one of the officers. "We've lost about three hundred men since we landed." "Found any of them?" "Justice Section got sixty-three. The rest are probably hopeless." Another exchange of salutes. The officers left. "What did they want, Meikl?" she asked. "Just idle conversation. It's nearly time for the meeting with the elders. Let's go." They began walking along the ridge together in the late sunlight. The meeting was to attempt to explain to the elders of the Geoark that the men of the fleet were not free to depart from the occupied zone. The attempt would be fruitless, but ven Klaeden had ordered it. From the viewpoint of the high command, three hundred desertions out of nineteen thousand men over a period of six months was not an important loss of personnel. What was important: the slow decay of discipline under the "no force" interdict. A policy of "no arrest" had been established for the ausland. If a man escaped from the occupied zone, Justice Section could send a detail to demand his return, but if he refused, no force would be used, because of the horrified reaction of the natives. If he were located, a killer was dispatched, armed with a tiny phial, a hollow needle, and a C# # gun that could be concealed in the palm of the hand. The killer stalked the deserter until he caught him alone, fired from cover, and stole quietly away while the deserter plucked the needle out of his hide to stare at it in horror. He had a week in which to get back to the occupied zone to beg for immunization; if he did not, the spot would become alive with fungus, and the fungus would spread, and within months, he would die rather grimly. The real danger, Meikl knew, was not to the fleet but to the natives. The spacers were cultural poison, and each deserter was a source of infection moving into the native society, a focal point of restimulation for any recessive kult'laenger lines that still existed in a peaceful people after twenty thousand years. "I think Evon will be here," the girl said too casually as they entered the forest and turned into a path that led to the glade where the elders had assembled. He took her arm suddenly, and stopped in the pathway. "Letha -- you have worked for me many months." "Yes -- " "I love you, Letha." She smiled very slowly, and lifted her hands to his face. He kissed her quietly, hating himself. "You'll take me with you," she said. "No." It was impossible. "Then you'll stay." "It is... forbidden... verboten... There was no word in the tongue. "I can't understand... If you love..." He swallowed hard. For the girl, "love" automatically settled everything, and consummation must follow. How could he explain. "Letha -- in your culture, 'life' is the highest value." "How could it be otherwise? Love me, Meikl." He took a deep breath and straightened. "You understand 'drama', Letha. I have watched your people. Their lives are continuous conscious play-acting. Your lives are a dance, but you know you are dancing, and you dance as you will. Have you watched our people?" She nodded slowly. "You dance a different dance -- act a different play." "It's not a play, Letha. We act an unconscious drama, and thus the drama becomes more important than living. And death takes precedence over life." She shuddered slightly and stared into his eyes, unbelieving. "I don't know what you mean." "Can you understand? -- that I love you, and yet my... my..." He groped for a word for "duty". "My death-allegiance to the shippeople takes precedence? I can neither take you nor remain with you." Something went dead in her eyes. "Let us go to the glade," she said in a monotone. "It's growing late." "And what will ye leave to your ain mither dear, Edward, Edward? And what will ye leave to your ain mither dear, My dear son, now tell me, O?" " The curse of hell frae me sail ye bear, Mither, mither ; The curse of hell frae me sail ye bear; Sic counsels ye gave to me, O!" the eighteenth day of the ninth month. A party of unidentified men had stolen into the occupied zone during the night. Without warning, they killed three guards, seized control of the dispensary, raided the pharmacy, taking the entire supply of fungus immunization serum, together with a supply of the deadly phials and needles. They stole a flyer and departed to the south, skimming low over the forest to avoid fire from the grounded fleet. The following day, a leaflet appeared, circulating among the fleet personnel. "An outrageous and preposterous bit of deviltry!" ven Klaeden had hissed. "Get them. Make an example of them." In reversal of previous policy, a police party was sent to search for the self-styled ausland committee, with orders to capture or kill on sight. The police party hunted down and killed six deserters, dragged eleven more back to the occupied zone, under the very eyes of the native population. But the immunizing serum was not recovered. A few days later, three staff officers and a dozen officers in Justice Section awoke with yelps in the night to pluck stinging needles from their skins and scream for the guard to pursue the silent shadows that had invaded their quarters. Five men were captured. Three of them were natives. Interrogation failed to disclose the location of the immunizing serum. Muttering natives began to desert the project. The five culprits were brought before the baron. "Execute them in public, with full dress military ceremony. Then close the border of the occupied zone. No native may leave, if he has signed a work contract." On the day of the execution, the natives attempted to leave en masse. The police activity along the border approached the proportions of a massacre. "We were nearly finished," raged the baron, pacing like an angry predator in the glade. "Another two weeks, and the first ore would come out of the crushers. They can't stop us now. They can't quit." Three elders of the Geoark sat like frozen statues on a mossy boulder, tight-lipped, not understanding the colonel's tongue, disdaining to speak in the intermediate language. "Explain it to them, Meikl. Make it clear." Pale, trembling with suppressed disapproval, the analyst bowed curtly and turned to the girl. "Tell them," he said in the Intermedia, "that death will come to any native who deserts, and that ten auslanders will die for every man murdered by the renegade committee. Tell them that theGeoark is..." He paused. There was no word for "hostage." He was explaining the hostageconcept lengthily, while the girl's , face drained of color. Suddenly she turned away to retch. Meikl stood stricken for a moment, turned helplessly toward the baron. " They understood you, damn them!" ven Klaeden snapped. "They know the Intermedia." The elders continued to sit stonily on the boulder without acknowledging that they had heard. One of them sighed deeply and spoke a few words to the others. They nodded sadly, answered with polite monosyllables. "No!" Letha yelped, suddenly whirling, looking at the elders. One of them smiled and murmured a few words to her. Then the three of them slid down from the boulder. The guard who stood at port arms a few feet away stirred restlessly. The elders walked casually toward a path leading away from the glade. The guard looked questioningly at the officers. "Where are they going?" ven Klaeden demanded. "Well, Letha?" Meikl muttered. "I -- I don't know -- " "You're lying, girl," the baron grunted, then to the guards: "Tell them to halt." "Party, halt!" snapped the guard. The three elderly gentlemen continued toward the path, loose robes gathered up from spindley shins. "Party, halt!" The elders murmured conversationally among themselves as they continued. "Take the one in the middle," ordered ven Klaeden. The guard lifted the snub-nosed shoulder weapon. There was a brief rattling hiss. The back of the elder's robe went crimson, and he crumpled at the entrance of the pathway. The other two continued on their way, their stride unbroken. "Shoot for the legs, you fool!" barked the baron. The rattling hiss came again. They fell in the shrubs, whimpering softly. Miekl turned away with a choking spasm in his throat, looked around for Letha. She had vanished from the glade. "Haul them to the dispensary, keep them prisoner," the baron was growling. Meikl turned on him. "Now it's come to this, has it?" he snapped. "From the beginning, they were we wanted. Why did they stop be"That's enough, Meikl!" "I've hardly started. You came here like a tyrant, and they served you like a friend. You couldn't bear it. 'Brethren', they said. But there's nothing about 'brethren' in the tactical handbooks, is there, Baron?" "Shut up." Ven Klaeden said it quietly, as if bored. He crossed slowly to stand before the analyst and stare at him icily. "You speak of the unconscious inheritance of culture, analyst -- the kulturverlaengerung. And you have accused me for being a carrier of the war plague, eh?" Meikl paused. The baron's eyes were narrowed, stabbing as if in judgment or triumph. "Well, Meikl? Is that what we've done? Inflicted them with conflict? Brought back the old seeds of hate?" The analyst drew himself up slightly. "You just killed a man, a man of dignity," he snarled, "and you cut two others down like weeds." "Innocent old men." The baron's mouth twisted into a snarl. "They wanted nothing but to help us." "Yes, Meikl? And we are the barbarians, eh?" The analyst spoke disdain with his eyes. The baron straightened in sudden hauteur. "Look down at the ground, Analyst " he hissed. Ven Klaeden's sudden change of tone impelled him to obey. His eyes fell to the turf at his feet -- moss covered sod, rich and dark beneath the green. The baron kicked a hole in the moss with the toe of his boot. "Tell me where the infection came from, Analyst," he growled. He scraped at the hole with his heel. "And why is the dirt so red right here?" Meikl glanced up slowly. Two men were coming through the shrubs, walking warily along the path toward the clearing. Ven Klaeden seemed unaware. He leaned forward to speak through his teeth. "I give them nothing but what they gave our fathers -- their own inner hell, Meikl -- the curse they so carefully forgot. In their Eden." The man was mad... perhaps. Meikl's eyes followed the men who approached through the shrubs. One of them carried a burden -- the limp body of a girl, occasionally visible through the low foliage as they drew nearer. One of the men was a junior officer, the other a native. After a moment, he recognized the native... I "Evon!" As he called out, the baron whirled, hand slipping to the hilt of the ceremonial sword he wore in the presence of the Geoark. The men stopped. Meikl stared at the limp figure in the arms of the native. "Lethal" "Dead," Evon hissed. "They killed her for running..." They emerged from the shrubs into full view. The officer was holding a gun. "Put that away!" ven Klaeden snapped. The young officer laughed sourly. "Sorry, baron, I'm from the committee." "Guard!" "There's no one in earshot, Baron." "Fool!" Ven Klaeden arrogantly whipped out the sword. "Drop that gun, or I'll blade-whip you!" "Easy, baron, easy. I'm your executioner..." The baron straightened haughtily and began a slow advance, a towering figure of icy dignity in the sun that filtered through the foliage. "... but I want to take care of this one first." The renegade waved the gun toward Meikl. "You, Baron, you can have it slower -- a needle in your official rump." Ven Klaeden, a figure of utter contempt, continued the slow advance with the sword. The officer's lips tightened. He squeezed the trigger. Ven Klaeden hesitated, jerking slightly, then continued, his hand pressing against his abdomen, doubling forward slightly. The officer fired again -- a sharp snap of sound in the glade. The baron stopped, wrestling with pain ten feet from the pale renegade. Suddenly he flung the sword. It looped in mid-air and slashed the man's face from chin to cheekbone. He tripped and tumbled backward as ven Klaeden slipped to his knees on the moss. Meikl dived for the gun. By the time he wrestled it away from the officer with the bloody face, ven Klaeden was sitting like a gaunt Buddha on the moss, and the body of Letha lay nearby, while a confused Evon clutched his hands to his face and rocked slowly. Meikl came slowly to his feet. The renegade officer wiped his face of blood and shrank back into shrubs. "Get him," croaked ven Klaeden. Scarcely knowing why, the analyst jerked the trigger, felt the gun explode in his fist, saw the renegade topple. There was a moment of stillness in the glade, broken only by ven Klaeden' s wheezing breath. The baron looked up with an effort, his eyes traveling over the girl, then up to the figure of the child of Earth. "Your woman, Earthling?" Evon lowered his hands, stood dazed and blinking for a moment. He glanced at Meikl, then at the girl. He knelt beside her, staring, not touching, and his knee encountered the blade of the sword. "You have brought us death, you have brought us hate," he said slowly, his eyes clinging to the sword. "Pick it up," hissed the baron. "You will never leave. A party of men is wrecking what you have done. Then we shall wreck your ships. Then we..." "Pick it up." The native hesitated. Slowly, his brown hand reached for the hilt, and fascination was in his eyes. "You know what it is for?" the analyst asked. The native shook his head slowly. Then it was in his hand, fingers shaping themselves around the hilt -- as the fingers of his fathers had done in the ages before the Star Exodus. His jaw fell slightly, and he looked up, clutching it. "Now do you know?" the baron gasped. "My -- my hand -- it knows," the native whispered. Ven Klaeden glanced sourly at Meikl, losing his balance slightly, eyes glazed with pain. "He'll need it now, won't he, Analyst?" he breathed, then fell to the moss. Evon stood up slowly, moistening his lips, feeling the grip of the sword and touching the red-stained steel. He peered quickly up at Meikl. Meikl brandished the gun slightly. The low rumble of a dynamite blast sounded from the direction of the mines. "You loved her too," Evon said. He nodded. The native held the sword out questioningly, as if offering it. "Keep it," the analyst grunted. "You remembered its feel after twenty thousand years. That's why you'll need it." Some deeds, he thought, would haunt the soul of Man until his end, and there was no erasing them... for they were the soul, selfmade, lasting in the ghost-grey fabric of mind as long as the lips of a child greedily sought the breast of its mother, as long as the child mirrored the mind of the man and the woman. Kulturverlaengerung. The analyst left the native with the sword and went to seek the next in line of command. The purpose of the fleet must be kept intact, he thought, laughing bitterly. Yet still he went. It was the dawn of a golden age of transportation. T err an Development was ready to market a fourth dimension C vehicle # which afforded almost instantaneous travel . For instance, Henry Ellis commuted # miles to work in five steps and a few seconds. Then, one morning, he met some people on the way... Prominent Author By Philip K. Dick Illustrated by Paul Orban prompt man, and hasn't been late to work in twenty-five years, is actually still someplace around the house." She sipped at her faintlyscented hormone and carbohydrate drink. "As a matter of fact, he won't be leaving for another ten minutes." "Incredible," said Dorothy Lawrence, who had finished her drink, and now basked in the dermalmist spray that descended over her virtually unclad body from an automatic jet above the couch. "What they won't think of next!" Mrs. Ellis beamed proudly, as if she personally were an employee of Terran Development. "Yes, it is incredible. According to somebody down at the office, the whole history of civilization can be explained in terms of transportation techniques. Of course, I don't know anything about history. That's for Government research people. But from what this man told Henry -- " "Where's my briefcase?" came a fussy voice from the bedroom. "Good Lord, Mary. I know I left it on the clothes-cleaner last night." "You left it upstairs," Mary replied, raising her voice slightly. "Look in the closet." "Why would it be in the closet?" Sounds of angry stirring-arounds. "You'd think a man's own briefcase would be safe." Henry Ellis stuck his head into the living room briefly. "I found it. Hello, Mrs. Lawrence." "Good morning," Dorothy Lawrence replied. "Mary was explaining that you're still here." "Yes, I'm still here." Ellis straightened his tie, as the mirror revolved slowly around him. "Anything you want me to pick up downtown, honey?" "No," Mary replied. "Nothing I can think of. I'll vid you at the office, if I remember something." "Is it true," Mrs. Lawrence asked, "that as soon as you step into it you're all the way downtown?" "Well, almost all the way." "A hundred and sixty miles! It's beyond belief. Why, it takes my husband two and a half hours to get his monojet through the commercial lanes and down at the parking lot and then walk all the way up to his office." "I know," Elli smuttered, grabbing his hat and coat. "Used to take me about that long. But no more." He kissed his wife goodbye. "So long. See you tonight. Nice to have seen you again, Mrs. Lawrence." "Can I -- watch?" Mrs. Lawrence asked hopefully. "Watch? Of course, of course." Ellis hurried through the house, out the back door and down the steps into the yard. "Come along!" he shouted impatiently. "I don't want to be late. It's nine fifty-nine and I have to be at my desk by ten." Mrs. Lawrence hurried eagerly after Ellis. In the back yard stood a big circular hoop that gleamed brightly in the mid-morning sun. Ellis turned some controls at the base. The hoop changed color, from silver to a shimmering red. "Here I go!" Ellis shouted. He stepped briskly into the hoop. The hoop fluttered about him. There was a faint pop. The glow died. "Good Heavens!" Mrs. Lawrence gasped. "He's gone!" "He's in downtown N'York," Mary Ellis corrected. "I wish my husband had a Jiffiscuttler. When they show up on the market commercially maybe I can afford to get him one." "Oh, they're very handy," Mary Ellis agreed. "He's probably saying hello to the boys right this minute." tunnel. All around him a gray, formless tube stretched out in both directions, a sort of hazy sewerpipe. Framed in the opening behind him, he could see the faint outline of his own house. His backporch and yard, Mary standing on the steps in her red bra and slacks. Mrs. Lawrence beside her in greencheckered shorts. The cedar tree and rows of petunias. A hill. The neat little houses of Cedar Groves, Pennsylvania. And in front of him -- New York City. A wavering glimpse of the busy streetcorner in front of his office. The great building itself, a section of concrete and glass and steel. People moving. Skyscrapers. Monojets landing in swarms. Aerial signs. Endless whitecollar workers hurrying everywhere, rushing to their offices. Ellis moved leisurely toward the New York end. He had taken the Jiffi-scuttler often enough to know just exactly how many steps it was. Five steps. Five steps along the wavery gray tunnel and he had gone a hundred and sixty miles. He halted, glancing back. So far he had gone three steps. Ninety six miles. More than half way. The fourth dimension was a wonderful thing. Ellis lit his pipe, leaning his briefcase against his trouserleg and groping in his coat pocket for his tobacco. He still had thirty seconds to get to work. Plenty of time. The pipelighter flared and he sucked in expertly. He snapped the lighter shut and restored it to his pocket. A wonderful thing, all right. The Jiffi-scuttler had already revolutionized society. It was now possible to go anywhere in the world instantly , with no time lapse. And without wading through endless lanes of other monojets, also going places. The transportation problem had been a major headache since the middle of the twentieth century. Every year it took longer to get to work. Every year more families moved from the cities out into the country, adding numbers .to the already swollen swarms that choked the roads and jetlanes. But it was all solved, now. An infinite number of Jiffi-scuttlers could be set up; there was no interference between them. The Jiffi-scuttler bridged distances nonspacially, through another dimension of some kind (they hadn't explained that part too clearly to him). For a flat thousand credits any Terran family could have Jiffiscuttler hoops set up, one in the backyard -- the other in Berlin, or Bermuda, or San Francisco, or Port Said. Anywhere in the world. Of course, there was one drawback. The hoop had to be anchored in one specific spot. You picked your destination and that was that. But for an office worker, it was perfect. Step in one end, step out the other. Five steps -- a hundred and sixty miles. A hundred and sixty miles that had been a two hour nightmare of grinding gears and sudden jolts, monojets cutting in and out, speeders, reckless flyers, alert cops waiting to pounce, ulcers and bad tempers. It was all over now. All over for him, at least, as an employee of Terran Development, the manufacturer of the Jiffiscuttler. And soon for everybody, when they were commercially on the market. Ellis sighed. Time for work. He could see Ed Hall racing up the steps of the TD building two at a time. Tony Franklin hurrying after him. Time to get moving. He bent down and reached for his briefcase -- It was then he saw them. thin, there. A sort of thin spot where the shimmer wasn't so strong. Just a bit beyond his foot and past the corner of Tiis briefcase. Beyond the thin spot were three tiny figures. Just beyond the gray waver. Incredibly small men, no larger than insects. Watching him with incredulous astonishment. Ellis gazed down intently, his briefcase forgotten. The three tiny men were equally dumbfounded. None of them stirred, the three tiny figures, rigid with awe, Henry Ellis bent over, his mouth open, eyes wide. A fourth little figure joined the others. They all stood rooted to the spot, eyes bulging. They had on some kind of robes. Brown robes and sandals. Strange, unTerran costumes. Everything about them was unTerran. Their size, their oddly-colored dark faces, their clothing -- and their voices. Suddenly the tiny figures were shouting shrilly at each other, squeaking a strange gibberish. They had broken out of their freeze and now ran about in queer, frantic circles. They raced with incredible speed, scampering like ants on a hot griddle. They raced jerkily, their arms and legs pumping wildly. And all the time they squeaked in their shrill high-pitched voices. Ellis found his briefcase. He picked it up slowly. The figures watched in mixed wonder and terror as the huge bag rose, only a short distance from them. An idea drifted through Ellis' brain. Good Lord -- could they come into the Jiffi-scuttler, through the gray haze? But he had no time to find out. He was already late, as it was. He pulled away and hurried toward the New York end of the tunnel A second later he stepped out in the blinding sunlight, abruptly finding himself on the busy streetcorner in front of his office. "Hey, there, Hank!" Donald Potter shouted, as he raced through the doors into the TD building. "Get with it!" "Sure, sure." Ellis followed after him automatically. Behind, the entrance to the Jiffi-scuttler was a vague circle above the pavement, like the ghost of a soapbubble. He hurried up the steps and inside the offices of Terran Development, his mind already on the hard day ahead. As they were locking up the office and getting ready to go home, Ellis stopped Coordinator Patrick Miller in his office. "Say, Mr. Miller. You're also in charge of the research end, aren't you?" "Yeah. So?" "Let me ask you something. Just where does the Jiffi-scuttler go? It must go somewhere." "It goes out of this continum completely." Miller was impatient to get home. "Into another dimension." "I know that. But -- where?" Miller unfolded his breastpocket handkerchief rapidly and spread it out on his desk. "Maybe I can explain it to you this way. Suppose you're a two-dimensional creature and this handkerchief represents your -- " Ellis said, dissapointed. "That's merely an analogy, and I'm not interested in an analogy. I want a factual answer. Where does my Jiffi-scuttler go, between here and Cedar Groves?" Miller laughed. "What the hell do you care?" Ellis became abruptly guarded. He shrugged indifferently. "Just curious. It certainly must go someplace" Miller put his hand on Ellis' shoulder in a friendly big-brother fashion. "Henry, old man, you just leave that up to us. Okay? We're the designers, you're the consumer. Your job is to use the 'scuttler, try it out for us, report any defects or failures so when we put it on the market next year we'll be sure there's nothing wrong with it." "As a matter of fact -- " Ellis began. "What is it?" Ellis clamped his sentence off. "Nothing." He picked up his briefcase. "Nothing at all. I'll see you tomorrow. Thanks, Mr. Miller. Goodnight." He hurried downstairs and out of the TD building. The faint outline of his Jiffi-scuttler was visible in the fading late-afternoon sunlight. The sky was already full of mono jets taking off. Weary workers beginning their long trip back to their homes in the country. The endless commute. Ellis made his way to the hoop and stepped into it. Abruptly the bright sunlight dimmed and faded. gray tunnel. At the far end flashed a circle of green and white. Rolling green hills and his own house. His backyard. The cedar tree and flower beds. The town of Cedar Groves. Two steps down the tunnel. Ellis halted, bending over. He studied the floor of the tunnel intently. He studied the misty gray wall, where it rose and flickered -- and the thin place. The place he had noticed. They were still there. Still? It was a different bunch. This time ten or eleven of them. Men and women and children. Standing together, gazing up at him with awe and wonder. No more than a half inch high, each. Tiny distorted figures, shifting and changing shape oddly. Altering colors and hues. Ellis hurried on. The tiny figures watched him go. A brief glimpse of their microscopic astonishment -- and then he was stepping out into his back yard. He clicked off the Jiffi-scuttler and mounted the back steps. He entered his house, deep in thought. "Hi," Mary cried, from the kitchen. She rustled toward him in her hip-length mesh shirt, her arms out. "How was work today?" "Fine." "Is anything wrong? You look -- strange." "No. No, nothing's wrong." Ellis kissed his wife absently on the forehead. "What's for dinner?" "Something choice. Siriusian mole steak. One of your favorites. Is that all right?" "Sure." Ellis tossed his hat and coat down on the chair. The chair folded them up and put them away. His thoughtful, preoccupied look still remained. "Fine, honey." "Are you sure there's nothing wrong? You didn't get into another argument with Pete Taylor, did you?" "No. Of course not." Ellis shook his head in annoyance. "Everything's all right, honey. Stop needling me." "Well, I hope so," Mary said, with a sigh. waiting for him. He saw them the first step into the Jiffi-scuttler. A small group waiting within the wavering gray, like bugs caught in a block of jello. They moved jerkily, rapidly, arms and legs pumping in a blur of motion. Trying to attract his attention. Piping wildly in their pathetically faint voices. Ellis stopped and squatted down. They were putting something through the wall of the tunnel, through the thin place in the gray. It was small, so incredibly small he could scarcely see it. A square of white at the end of a microscopic pole. They were watching him eagerly, faces alive with fear and hope. Desperate, pleading hope. Ellis took the tiny square. It came loose like some fragile rose petal from its stalk. Clumsily, he let it drop and had to hunt all around for it. The little figures watched in an agony of dismay as his huge hands moved blindly around the floor of the tunnel. At last he found it and gingerly lifted it up. It was too small to make out. Writing? Some tiny lines -- but he couldn't read them. Much too small to read. He got out his wallet and carefully placed the square between two cards. He restored his wallet to his pocket. "I'll look at it later," he said. His voice boomed and echoed up and down the tunnel. At the sound the tiny creatures scattered. They all fled, shrieking in their shill, piping voices, away from the gray shimmer, into the dimness beyond. In a flash they were gone. Like startled mice. He was alone. Ellis knelt down and put his eye against the gray shimmer, where it was thin. Where they had stood waiting. He could see something dim and distorted, lost in a vague haze. A landscape of some sort. Indistinct. Hard to make out. Hills. Trees and crops. But so tiny. And dim... He glanced at his watch. God, it was ten! Hastily he scrambled to his feet and hurried out of the tunnel, onto the blazing N'York sidewalk. Late. He raced up the stairs of the Terran Development building and down the long corridor to his office. At lunchtime he stopped in at the Research Labs. "Hey," he called, as Jim Andrews brushed past, loaded down with reports and equipment. "Got a second?" "What do you want, Henry?" "I'd like to borrow something. A magnifying glass." He considered. "Maybe a small photonmicroscope would be better. One or two hundred power." "Kids' stuff." Jim found him a small microscope. "Slides?" "Yeah, a couple of blank slides." He carried the microscope back to his office. He set it up on his desk, clearing away his papers. As a precaution he sent Miss Nelson, his secretary, out of the room and off to lunch. Then carefully, cautiously, he got the tiny wisp from his wallet and slipped it between two slides. It was writing, all right. But nothing he could read. Utterly unfamiliar. Complex, interlaced little characters. For a time he sat thinking. Then he dialed his inter-department vidphone. "Give me the Linguistics Department." After a moment Earl Peterson's good-natured face appeared. "Hi, there, Ellis. What can I do for you?" Ellis hesitated. He had to do this right. "Say, Earl, old man. Got a little favor to ask you." "Like what? Anything to oblige an old pal." "You, uh -- you have that Machine down there, don't you? That translating business you use for working over documents from nonTerran cultures?" "Sure. So?" "Think I could use it?" He talked fast. "It's a screwy sort of a deal, Earl. I got this pal living on -- uh -- Centaurus VI, and he writes me in -- uh -- you know, the Centauran native semantic system, and I -- " "You want the Machine to translate a letter? Sure, I think we could manage it. This once, at least. Bring it down." He brought it down. He got Earl to show him how the intake feed worked, and as soon as Earl had turned his back he fed in the the tiny square of material. The Linguistics Machine clicked and whirred. Ellis prayed silently that the paper wasn't too small. Wouldn't fall out between the relay-probes of the Machine. But sure enough, after a couple of seconds, a tape unreeled from the output slot. The tape cut itself off and dropped into a basket. The Linguistics Machine turned promptly to other stuff, more vital material from TD's various export branches. With trembling figures Ellis spread out the tape. The words danced before his eyes. Questions. They were asking him questions. God, it was getting complicated. He read the questions intently, his lips moving. What was he getting himself into? They were expecting answers. He had taken their paper, gone off with it. Probably they would be waiting for him, on his way home. He returned to his office and dialed his vidphone. "Give me outside," he ordered. The regular vid monitor appeared. "Yes sir?" "I want the Federal Library of Information," Ellis said. "Cultural Research Division." ing, all right. But not the same ones. It was odd -- each time a different group. Their clothing was slightly different, too. A new hue. And in the background the landscape had also altered slightly. The trees he had seen were gone. The hills were still there, but a different shade. A hazy graywhite. Snow? He squatted down. He had worked it out with care. The answers from the Federal Library of Information had gone back to the Linguistics Machine for re-translation. The answers were now in the original tongue of the questions -- but on a trifle larger piece of paper. Ellis made like a marble game and flicked the wad of paper through the gray shimmer. It bowled over six or seven of the watching figures and rolled down the side of the hill on which they were standing. After a moment of terrified immobility the figures scampered frantically after it. They disappeared into the vague and invisible depths of their world and Ellis got stiffly to his feet again. "Well," he muttered to himself, "that's that." But it wasn't. The next morning there was a new group -- and a new list of questions. The tiny figures pushed their microscopic square of paper through the thin spot in the wall of the tunnel and stood waiting and trembling as Ellis bent over and felt around for it. He found it -- finally. He put it in his wallet and continued on his way, stepping out at New York, frowning. This was getting serious. Was this going to be a full time job? But then he grinned. It was the damn oddest thing he had ever heard of. The little rascals were cute, in their own way. Tiny intent faces, screwed up with serious concern. And terror. They were scared of him, really scared. And why not? Compared to them he was a giant. He conjectured about their world. What kind of a planet was theirs? Odd to be so small. But size was a relative matter. Small, though, compared to him. Small and reverent. He could read fear and a yearning, gnawing hope, as they pushed up their papers. They were depending on him. Praying he'd give them answers. Ellis grinned. "Damn unusual job," he said to himself. "What's this?" Peterson said, when he showed up in the Linguistics Lab at noontime. "Well, you see, I got another letter from my friend on Centauraus VI." "Yeah?" A certain suspicion flickered across Peterson's face. "You're not ribbing me, are you, Henry? This Machine has a lot to do, you know. Stuff's coming in all the time. We can't afford to waste any time with -- " "This is really serious stuff, Earl." Ellis patted his wallet. "Very important business. Not just gossip." "Okay. If you say so." Peterson gave the nod to the team operating the Machine. "Let this guy use the Translator, Tommie." "Thanks," Ellis murmured. He went through the routine, getting a translation and then carrying the questions up to his vidphone and passing them over to the Library research staff. By nightfall the answers were back in the original tongue and with them carefully in his wallet, Ellis headed out of the Terran Development building and into his Jiffi-scuttler. As usual, a new group was waiting. "Here you are, boys," Ellis boomed, flicking the wad through the thin place in the shimmer. The wad rolled down the microscopic countryside, bouncing from hill to hill, the little people tumbling jerkily after it in their funny stiff-legged fashion. Ellis watched them go, grinning with interest -- and pride. They really hurried; no doubt about that. He could make them out only vaguely, now. They had raced wildly off away from the shimmer. Only a small portion of their world was tangent to the Jiffiscuttler, apparently. Only the one spot, where the shimmer was thin. He peered intently through. They wei'e getting the wad open, now. Three or four of them, unprying the paper and examining the answers. Ellis swelled with pride as he continued along the tunnel and out into his own back yard. He couldn't read their questions -- and when translated, he couldn't answer them. The Linguistics Department did the first part, the Library research staff the rest. Nevertheless, Ellis felt pride. A deep, glowing spot of warmth far down inside him. The expression on their faces. The look they gave him when they saw the answerwad in his hand. When they realized he was going to answer their questions. And the way they scampered after it. It was sort of -- satisfying. It made him feel damn good. "Not bad," he murmured, opening the back door and entering his house. "Not bad at all." "What's not bad, dear?" Mary asked, looking quickly up from the table. She laid down her magazine and got to her feet. "Why, you look so happy! What is it?" "Nothing. Nothing at all!" He kissed her warmly on the mouth. "You're looking pretty good tonight yourself, kid." "Oh, Henry!" Much of Mary blushed prettily. "How sweet." He surveyed his wife in her twopiece wraparound of clear plastic with appreciation. "Nice looking fragments you have on." "Why Henry! What's come over you? You seem so -- so spirited #" Ellis grinned. "Oh, I guess I enjoy my job. You know, there's nothing like taking pride in your work. A job well done, as they say. Work you can be proud of." "I thought you always said you were nothing but a cog in a great impersonal machine. Just a sort of cypher." "Things are different," Ellis said firmly. "I'm doing a -- uh -- a new project. A new assignment." "A new assignment?" "Gathering information. A sort of -- creative business. So to speak." had turned over quite a body of information to them. He began starting for work about nine-thirty. That gave him a whole thirty minutes to spend squatting down on his hands and knees, peering through the thin place in the shimmer. He got so he was pretty good at seeing them and what they were doing in their microscopic world. Their civilization was somewhat primitive. No doubt of that. By Terran standards it was scarcely a civilization at all. As near as he could tell, they were virtually without scientific techniques; a kind of agrarian culture, rural communism, a monolithic tribal-based organization apparently without too many members. At least, not at one time. That was the part he didn't understand. Every time he came past there was a different group of them. No familiar faces. And their world changed, too. The trees, the crops, fauna. The weather, apparently. Was their time rate different? They moved rapidly, jerkily. Like a vidtape speeded up. And their shrill voices. Maybe that was it. A totally different universe in which the whole time structure was radically different. As to their attitude toward him, there was no mistaking it. After the first couple of times they began assembling offerings, unbelievably small bits of smoking food, prepared in ovens and on open brick hearths. If he got down with his nose against the gray shimmer he could get a faint whiff of the food. It smelled good. Strong and pungent. Highly spiced. Meat, probably. On Friday he brought a magnifying glass along and watched them through it. It was meat, all right. They were bringing antsized animals to be killed and cooked, leading them up to the ovens. With the magnifying glass he could see more of their faces. They had strange faces. Strong and dark, with a peculiar firm look. Of course, there was only one look he got from them. A combination of fear, reverence, and hope. The look made him feel good. It was a look for him, only. Between themselves they shouted and argued -- and sometimes stabbed and fought each other furiously, rolling in their brown robes in a wild tangle. They were a passionate and strong species. He got so he admired them. Which was good -- because it made him feel better. To have the reverent awe of such a proud, sturdy race was really something. There was nothing craven about them. About the fifth time he came there was a rather attractive structure built. Some kind of temple. A place of religious worship. To him! They were developing a real religion about him. No doubt of it. He began going to work at nine o'clock, to give himself a full hour with them. They had, by the middle of the second week, a fullsized ritual evolved. Processions, lighted tapers, what seemed to be songs or chants. Priests in long robes. And the spiced offerings. No idols, though. Apparently he was so big they couldn't make out his appearance. He tried to imagine what it looked like to be on their side of the shimmer. An immense shape looming up above them, beyond a wall of gray haze. An indistinct being, something like themselves, yet not like them at all. A different kind of being, obviously. Larger -- but different in other ways. And when he spoke -- booming echoes up and down the Jiffiscuttler. Which still sent them fleeing in panic. An evolving religion. He was changing them. Through his actual presence and through his answers, the precise, correct responses he obtained from the Federal Library of Information and had the Linguistics Machine translate into their language. Of course, by their timerate they had to wait generations for the answers. But they had become accustomed to it, by now. They waited. They expected. They passed up questions and after a couple centuries he passed down answers, answers which they no doubt put to good use. "What in the world?" Mary demanded, as he got home from work an hour late, one night. "Where have you been?" "Working," Ellis said carelessly, removing his hat and coat. He threw himself down on the couch. "I'm tired. Really tired." He sighed with relief and motioned for the couch-arm to bring him a whisky sour. Mary came over by the couch. "Henry, I'm a little worried." "Worried?" "You shouldn't work so hard. You ought to take it easy, more. How long since you've had a real vacation? A trip off Terra. Out of the System. You know, I'd just like to call that fellow Miller and ask him why it's necessary a man your age put in so much -- " "A man my age!" Ellis bristled indignantly. "I'm not so old." "Of course not." Mary sat down beside him and put her arms around him affectionately. "But you shouldn't have to do so much. You deserve a rest. Don't you think?" "This is different. You don't understand. This isn't the same old stuff. Reports and statistics and the damn filing. This is -- " "What is it?" "This is different. I'm not a cog. This gives me something. I can't explain it to you, I guess. But it's something I have to do." "If you could tell me more about it -- " "I can't tell you any more about it," Ellis said. "But there's nothing in the world like it. I've worked twenty-five years for Terran Development. Twenty-five years at the same desk. Classifying the same reports, again and again. Twenty-five years -- and I never felt this way." "Don't give me that! Come clean, Ellis!" Ellis opened and closed his mouth. "What are you talking about?" Horror rolled through him. "What's happened?" "Don't try to give me the runaround." On the vidscreen Miller's face was purple. "Come into my office." The screen went dead. Ellis sat stunned at his desk. Gradually, he collected himself and got shakily to his feet. "Good Lord." Weakly, he wiped cold sweat from his forehead. All at once. Everything in ruins. He was dazed with the shock. "Anything wrong?" Miss Nelson asked sympathetically. "No." Ellis moved numbly toward the door. He was shattered. What had Miller found out? Good God! Was it possible he had -- "Mr. Miller looked angry." "Yeah." Ellis moved blindly down the hall, his mind reeling. Miller looked angry, all right. Somehow, he had found out. But why was he mad? Why did he care? A cold chill settled over Ellis. It looked bad. Miller was his superior -- with hiring and firing powers. Maybe he'd done something wrong. Maybe he had somehow broken a law. Committed a crime. But what? What did Miller care about them ? What concern was it of Terran Development? He opened the door to Miller's office. "Here I am, Mr. Miller," he muttered. "What's the trouble?" Miller glowered at him in rage. "All this goofy stuff about your cousin on Proxima." "It's -- uh -- you mean a business friend on Gentaurus VI." "You -- you swindler!" Miller leaped up. "And after all the Company's done for you." "I don't understand," Ellis muttered. "What have -- " "Why do you think we gave you the Jiffi-scuttler in the first place?" "Why?" "To test! To try out, you walleyed Venusian stink-cricket! The Company magnanimously consented to allow you to operate a Jiffi-scuttler in advance of market presentation, and what do you do? Why, you -- " Ellis started to get indignant. After all, he had been with TD twenty-five years. "You don't have to be so offensive. I plunked down my thousand gold credits for it." "Well, you can just mosey down to the accountant's office and get your money back. I've already sent out a directive for a construction team to crate up your Jiffi-scuttler and bring it back to receiving." Ellis was dumbfounded. "But why?" "Why indeed! Because it's defective. Because it doesn't work. That's why." Miller's eyes blazed with technological outrage. "The inspection crew found a leak a mile wide in it." His lip curled. "As if you didn't know." Ellis' heart sank. "Leak?" he croaked apprehensively. "Leak. It's a damn good thing I authorized a periodic inspection. If we depended on people like you to -- " "Are you sure? It seemed all right to me. That is, it got me here without any trouble." Ellis floundered. "Certainly no complaints from my end." "No. No complaints from your end. That's exactly why you're not getting another one. That's why you're taking the monojet transport, back home tonight. Because you didn't report the leak! And if you ever try to put something over on this office again -- " "How do you know I was aware of the -- defect?" Miller sank down in his chair, overcome with fury. "Because," he said carefully, "of your daily pilgrimmage to the Linguistics Machine. With your alleged letter from your grandmother on Betelgeuse II. Which wasn't any such thing. Which was an utter fraud. Which you got through the leak in the Jiffi-scuttler!" "How do you know?" Ellis squeaked boldly, driven to the walk "So maybe there was a defect. But you can't prove there's any connection between your badly constructed Jiffi-scuttler and my -- " "Your missive," Miller stated, "which you foisted on our Linguistics Machine, was not a nonTerran script. It was not from Centaurus VI. It was not from any nonTerran system. It was ancient Hebrew. And there's only one place you could have got it, Ellis. So don't try to kid me." "Hebrew!" Ellis exclaimed, startled. He turned white as a sheet. "Good Lord. The other continum  -- The fourth dimension. Time, of course." He trembled. "And the expanding universe. That would explain their size. And it explains why a new group, a new generation -- " "We're taking enough of a chance as it is, with these Jiffi-scuttlers. Warping a tunnel through other space-time continua." Miller shook his head wearily. "You meddler! You knew you were supposed to report any defect." "I don't think I did any harm, did I?" Ellis was suddenly terribly nervous. "They seemed pleased, even grateful. Gosh, I'm sure I didn't cause any trouble." Miller shrieked in insane rage. For a time he danced around the room. Finally he threw something down on his desk, directly in front of Ellis. "No trouble. No, none. Look at this. I got' this from the Ancient Artifacts Archives." "What is it?" "Look at it! I compared one of your question sheets to this. The same. Exactly the same. All your sheets, questions and answers, every one of them's in here. You multilegged Ganymedian mange beetle!" Ellis picked up the book and opened it. As he read thepages a strange look came slowly over his face. "Good Heavens. So they kept a record of what I gave them. They put it all together in a book. Every word of it. And some commentaries, too. It's all here -- Every single word. It did have an effect, then. They passed it on. Wrote all of it down." "Go back to your office. I'm through looking at you for today. I'm through looking at you forever. Your severance check will come though regular channels." In a trance, his face flushed with a strange excitement, Ellis gripped the book and moved dazedly toward the door. "Say, Mr. Miller. Can I have this? Can I take it along?" "Sure," Miller said wearily. "Sure, you can take it. You can read it on your way home tonight. On the public monojet transport." you," Mary Ellis whispered excitedly, gripping Mrs. Lawrence's arm. "Make sure you say the right thing." "The right thing?" Mrs. Lawrence faltered nervously, a trifle uneasy. "What is it? Nothing alive, I hope." "No, no." Mary pushed her toward the study door. "Just smile." She raised her voice. "Henry, Dorothy Lawrence is here." Henry Ellis appeared at the door of his study. He bowed slightly, a dignified figure in silk dressing gown, pipe in his mouth, fountain pen in one hand. "Good evening, Dorothy," he said in a low, wellmodulated voice. "Ca-re to step into my study a moment?" "Study?" Mrs. Lawrence came hesitantly in. "What do you study? I mean, Mary says you've been doing something very interesting recently, now that you're not with -- I mean, now that you're home more. She didn't give me any idea what it was, though." Mrs. Lawrence's eyes roved curiously around the study. The study was full of reference volumes, charts, a huge mahogany desk, an atlas globe, leather chairs, an unbelievably ancient electric typewriter. "Good heavens!" she exclaimed. "How odd. All these old things."  cal power equipment, a huge atomic-powered caterpillar train crawls out of a crater's shadow up into the sunlight, on its way to the site where a Moon base is under construction. After communication and power equipment are on their way, food and prefabricated housing units are unloaded from the two shuttle ships seen in the distance on the crater's floor. Now turn to inside back cover. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg: Lava Falls on Mercury # # # # I by Ed Valigursky  IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue an sale May #th like # years from now? That is the theme of IF's first Collegiate Science Fiction Contest which was announced last fall. Participants are limited to undergraduates in colleges in the United States and Canada, and the object is three fold : to introduce IF to new readers; stimulate interest in science fiction among young men and women, who will be the America of tomorrow; and to get their ideas and opinions, which are to be expressed in novelette form of approximately # words. The curtain falls next month, midnight May #th to be exact, and there are prizes totaling #. Writing ability is being considered, but of primary concern are ideas and imagination. Politics, science, literature, economics, semantics, sports, medicine -- any classroom subject or personal ones -- may be used as a background; the scene : any city, village farm or other place in America. There are no taboos and the only limitation is the author's imagination. Well, manuscripts have begun to trickle in. How many we will receive before the deadline is hard to tell but, judging from enquiries received since last November, there will be many more than anticipated. The response is not only encouraging, from the standpoint of a successful contest, but to see so many young people curious and anxious to express their opinions and speculations about what their country will be like a century from now. As one young man from Seattle, Washington, expressed it: "I have several ideas running around in my head... It will be fun to kick this thing around." None of the entrees will be judged, of course, until after the contest closes, but from brief scanning of early returns space travel, government, electronics, synthetics and human relations seem to be the most popular subjects. One of the stories predicts an American Empire, consisting of North and South America, as one of three nations existing on earth a century from now. It seems that the United States, diluted with socialism and communism, is saved from becoming a Soviet puppet state (about #) by a man with the soldiery of General MacArthur, the economic judgment of Herbert Hoover and the oratory of story tells of a United States subsisting on synthetics while a vast program, under military supervision, is being conducted to rehabilitate our natural resources; still another contestant prophesizes the human life span to be # years, with the cure of cancer as common as that of pneumonia is today. So -- the ideas are coming thick and fast already. What their diversity will be when all submissions are in and we start judging is anybody's guess. But one thing is sure: it's going to be an exciting, fascinating, and thought-provoking journey into what young America is thinking today about tomorrow. And if you want to see what the winners predict, don't miss the November and December issues -- you are in for a real treat. pearance with the old crystal sets back in the middle twenties and grew with leaps and bounds up through the thirties and forties, it never did seem to attain the degree of popularity that television has received in the relatively few years since you got a flickering picture over a "seven-inch" set. In less than ten years TV has become something of a home life social problem as well as a source of entertainment. People build on special rooms or re-do attics or cellars. They buy special chairs, tables, lamps, ash trays, etc. Dad stays home at night and Mother lets the dishes go until morning. The small fry either forget or won't do their homework, they refuse to come to meals until the last redskin has bit the dust, and that errand you want them to do can wait until Space Captain Carson has safely landed his ship on the Moon. In many cases they have taken over the family TV completely. However, there may soon come a time when television will have the exact opposite effect -- on the small fry, anyway. Junior will jump the minute you call him, he will never hesitate to do an errand, he will rush into his meals! Well... ? Television is not only a medium of entertainment. It is used by the Signal Corps to study battle problems. It is the "eyes" of the operator of machines that detonate and disassemble bombs. It is equipment in industry where machinery performs robot operations untenable by man. It is a medium of instruction... ! Now we have it! Perhaps it won't be too long before school is conducted by television -- right in your own home. All you have to do is put Junior in front of the set, turn it on at "bell time" and he'll get his readin', writin', and 'rithmetic without even going out of doors. He's gonna be told to wash his face and hands, do his home work, do this and that... He's gonna get so much schoolin' that he'll be happy to do anything to get a "recess". So -- once TV school starts, parents will get back their sets, ringside seats and domestic peace. By the way, have you got your color set yet? If not, and that ## price is keeping you from sending out color that you can pick up -- in black-and-white -- on your present set without adapters or gadgets. So, you can wait until color comes down to your budget. A long, long and fast, fast way from Marconi and Bell. -- jlq If historical precedent be wrong -- what qualities, then, must man possess to successfully colonize new worlds? Doctor Ashby said: "There is no piece of data you cannot find, provided you can devise the proper experimental procedure for turning it up." Now -- about the man and the procedure... By Raymond F. Jones Illustrated by Paul Orban year had been the dry one, and it would come again. But they wouldn't be here to see it, Captain Louis Carnahan thought. They had seen four dry ones, and now had come the fourth wet one, and soon they would be going home. For them, this was the end of the cycle. At first they had kept track of the days, checking each one off on their calendars, but the calendars had long since been mingled indistinguishably with the stuff of the planet itself -- along with most of the rest of their equipment. By that time, however, they had learned that the cycle of wet and dry seasons was almost precisely equivalent to a pair of their own Terran years, so they had no more need for the calendars. But at the beginning of this wet season Carnahan had begun marking off the days once again with scratches on the post of the hut in which he lived. The chronometers were gone, too, but one and threequarters Earth days equalled one Serrengian day, and by that he could compute when the ships from Earth were due. He had dug moats about the hut to keep rain water from coming in over his dirt floor. Only two of the walls were erected, and he didn't know or much care whether he would get the other two up or not. Most of the materials had blown away during the last dry period and he doubted very much that he would replace them. The two available walls were cornered against the prevailing winds. The roof was still in good shape, allowing him a sufficient space free of leaks to accommodate his cooking and the mat which he called a bed. He picked up a gourd container from the rough bench in the center of the room and took a swallow of the burning liquid. From the front of the hut he looked out over the rain swept terrain at the circle of huts. Diametrically across from him he could see Bolinger, the little biologist, moving energetically about. Bolinger was the only one who had retained any semblance of scientific interest. He puttered continually over his collection, which had grown enormously over the eight year period. When they got back, Bolinger at least would have some accomplishment to view with pride. The rest of them -- ? Carnahan laughed sharply and took another big swallow from the gourd, feeling the fresh surge of hot liquor already crossing the portals of his brain, bringing its false sense of wisdom and clarity. He knew it was false, but it was the only source of wisdom he had left, he told himself. He staggered back to the bed with the gourd. He caught a glimpse of his image in the small steel mirror on the little table at the end of the bed. Pausing to stare, he stroked the thick mat of beard and ran his fingers through the mane of hair that had been very black when he came, and was now a dirty silver grey. He hadn't looked at himself for a long time, but now he had to. He had to know what they would see when the ships of Earth came to pick up the personnel of the Base and leave another crew. The image made him sick. At the beginning of this final season of the rains, all his life before coming to Serrengia seemed like a dream that had never been real. Now it was coming back, as if he were measuring the final distance of a circle and approaching once again his starting point. He kept remembering more and more. Watching his image in the mirror, he remembered what General Winthrop had said on the day of their departure. "The pick of Earth's finest," the General said. "We have combed the Earth and you are the men we have chosen to represent Mankind in the far reaches of the Universe. Remember that wherever you go, there goes the honor of Mankind. Do not, above all, betray that honor." Carnahan clenched his teeth in bitterness. He wished old fatty Winthrop had come with them. Savagely he upended the gourd and flung it across the room. It meant a trip to Bailey's hut to get it replenished. Bailey had been the Chief Physicist. Now he was the official distiller, and the rotgut he produced was the only thing that made existence bearable. The Captain stared again at his own image. "Captain Louis Carnahan," he murmured aloud. "The pick of Earth's finest -- !" He smashed a fist at the little metal mirror and sent it flying across the room. The table crashed over, one feeble leg twisting brokenly. Then Carnahan hunched over with his face buried against the bed. His fists beat against it while his shoulders jerked in familiar, drunken sobs. After it was over he raised up, sitting on the edge of the bed. His mind burned with devastating clarity. It seemed for once he could remember everything that had ever happened to him. He remembered it all. He remembered his childhood under the bright, pleasant sky of Earth. He remembered his ambition to be a soldier, which meant spaceman, even then. He remembered his first flight, a simple training tour of the Moon installations. It convinced him that never again could he consider himself an Earthman in the sense of one who dwells upon the Earth. His realm was the sky and the stars. Not even the short period when he had allowed himself to be in love had changed his convictions. He had sacrificed everything his career demanded. Where had it gone wrong? How could he have allowed himself to forget? For years he had forgotten, he realized in horror. He had forgotten that Earth existed. He had forgotten how he came to be here, and why. And all that he was meant to accomplish had gone undone. For years the scientific work of the great base expedition had been ignored. Only the little biologist across the way, pecking at his tasks season after season, had accomplished anything. And now the ships were coming to demand an accounting. He groaned aloud as the vision became more terrible. He thought of that day when they had arrived at the inhospitable and uninhabited world of Serrengia. He could close his eyes and see it again -- the four tall ships standing on the plateau that was scarred by their landing. The men had been so proud of what they had done and would yet do. They could see nothing to defeat them as they unloaded the mountains of equipment and supplies. Now that same equipment lay oozing in the muck of leafy decomposition, corroded and useless like the men themselves. And in the dry seasons it had been alternately buried and blasted by the sands and the winds. He remembered exactly the day and the hour when they had cracked beyond all recovery. With an iron hand he had held them for three years. Weekly he demanded an appearance in full dress uniform, and hard discipline in all their relationships was the rule. Then one day he let the dress review go. They had come in from a long trek through a jungle that was renewing itself after a dry season. Too exhausted in body and spirit, and filled with an increasing sense of futility, he abandoned for the moment the formalities he had held to. After that it was easy. They fell apart all around him. He tried to hold them, settling quarrels that verged on mutiny. Then in the sixth month of the fourth year he had to kill with his own hands the first of his crazed and rebellious crew. This scientific work disintegrated and was abandoned. He remembered he had locked up all their notes and observations and charts, but where he had hidden the metal chest was one of the few things he seemed unable to recall. The more violent of the expedition killed each other off, or wandered into the jungle or desert and never came back. On the even dozen who were left there had settled a kind of monastic hermitage. Each man kept to himself, aware that a hairbreadth trespass against his neighbor would mean quick challenge to the death. Yet they clung to membership in this degenerate community as if it represented their last claim to humanness. This is what they would see Carnahan, thought. They would see his personal failure It was his, there was no question of that. If he had been strong he could have held the expedition together. He could have maintained the base in all the strength and honor of military tradition that had been entrusted to him. He hadn't been strong enough. The ships would come. The four of them. They might come tomorrow or even today. A panic crept through him. The ships could land at any time now, and their men would come marching out to greet him in his failure and cowardice and his dishonor. It must not happen. Old fatty Winthrop had said one thing that made sense: " -- there goes the honor of Mankind. Do not, above all, betray that honor." Fatty was right. The only thing he had left was honor, and in only one way could he retain it. With the fiery clarity burning in his brain he struggled from where he lay and picked up the metallic mirror and hung it from the post near the bed. He turned up the broken table against the wall. Then, with the air of one who has not been on the premises for a long time he began searching through the long unused chests stacked in the corner. The contents were for the most part in a state of decay, but he found his straight edged razor in the oiled pouch where he had last placed it. There should have been shaving detergent, but he couldn't find it. He contented himself with preparing hot water, then slowly and painfully hacked the thick beard away and scraped his face clean. He found a comb and raked it through his tangled mat of hair, arranging it in some vague resemblance to the cut he used to wear. From the chests he drew forth the dress uniform he had put away so long ago. Fortunately, it had been in the center, surrounded by other articles so that it was among the best preserved of his possessions. He donned it in place of the rags he wore. The shoes were almost completely hard from lack of care, but he put them on anyway and brushed the toes with a scrap of cloth. From underneath his bed he took his one possession which he had kept in meticulous repair, his service pistol. Then he stood up, buttoning and smoothing his coat, and smiled at himself in the little mirror. But his gaze shifted at once to something an infinity away. " 'Do not, above all, betray that honor.' At least you gave us one good piece of advice, fatty," he said. Carefully, he raised the pistol to his head. erect and self-supporting. Its shell enclosure was complete except for necessary installation openings. And in Number One the installations were complete and the ship's first test flight was scheduled for tomorrow morning. John Ashby looked from the third story window of his office toward the distant assembly yards on the other side of the field. The four hulls stood like golden flames in the afternoon sunlight. Ashby felt defeated by the speed with which the ships were being completed. It was almost as if the engineers had a special animosity toward him, which they expressed in their unreasonable speed of construction. This was nonsense, of course. They had a job to do and were proud if they could cut time from their schedule. But there was no cutting time from his schedule, and without the completion of his work the ships would not fly. He had to find men capable of taking them on their fantastic journeys. To date, he had failed. He glanced down at the black car with government markings, which had driven in front of the building a few moments before, and then he heard Miss Haslam, his secretary, on the interphone. "The Colonization Commission, Dr. Ashby." He turned from the window. "Have them come in at once," he said. He strode to the door and shook hands with each of the men. Only four of them had come: Mr. Merton, Chairman; General Winthrop; Dr. Cowper; and Dr. Boxman. "Please have seats over here by the window," Ashby suggested. They accepted and General Winthrop stood a moment looking out. "A beautiful sight, aren't they, Ashby?" he said. "They get more beautiful every day. You ought to get over more often. Collins says you haven't been around the place for weeks, and Number One is going up tomorrow." "We've had too much to occupy us here." "My men are ready," said the General pointedly. "We could supply a dozen crews to take those ships to Serrengia and back, and man the base there." Ashby turned away, ignoring the General's comment. He took a chair at the small conference table where the three Commissioners had seated themselves. Winthrop followed, settling in his chair with a smile, as if he had scored a major point. "Number One is ready," said Merton, "and still you have failed to offer us a single man, Dr. Ashby. The Commission feels that the time is very near when definite action will have to be taken. We have your reports, but we wanted a personal word with you to see if we couldn't come to some understanding as to what we can expect." "I will send you the men when I find out what kind of man we need," said Ashby. "Until then there had better be no thought of releasing the colonization fleet. I will not be responsible for any but the right answers to this problem." "We are getting to the point," said Boxman, "where we feel forced to consider the recommendations of General Winthrop. Frankly, we have never been able to fully understand your objections." "There'll never be a time when I cannot supply all the men needed to establish this base," said Winthrop. "We spend unlimited funds and years of time training personnel for posts of this kind, yet you insist on looking for unprepared amateurs. It makes no sense whatever, and only because you have been given complete charge of the personnel program have you been able to force your views on the Commission. But no one understands you. In view of your continued failure, the Commission is going to be forced to make its own choice." "My resignation may be had at any time," said Ashby. "No, no, Dr. Ashby." Merton held up his hand. "The General is perhaps too impulsive in his disappointment that you have failed us so far, but we do not ask for your resignation. We do ask if there is not some way in which you might see fit to use the General's men in manning the base." "The whole answer lies in the erroneous term you persist in applying to this project," said Ashby. "It is not a base, and never will be. We propose to set up a colony. It makes an enormous difference with respect to the kind of men required. We've been over this before -- " "But not enough," snapped Winthrop. "We'll continue to go over it until you understand you can't waste those ships on a bunch of half-baked idealists inspired by some noble nonsense about carrying on the torch of human civilization beyond the stars. We're putting up a base, to gather scientific data and establish rights of occupancy." "I don't think I agree with your description of my proposed party of colonists," said Ashby mildly. "That's what they'll be! Were colonists ever anything but psalm singing rebels or cutthroats trying to escape hanging? You're not going to establish a cultural and scientific base with such people." "No, you're quite right. That's not the kind." "What is it you're looking for?" said Merton irritably. "What kind of men do you want, if you can't find them among the best and the worst humanity offers." "Your terms are hardly accurate," said Ashby. "You fail to recognize the fact that we have never known what kind of man it takes to colonize. You ignore the fact that we have never yet successfully colonized the planets of our own Solar System. Bases, yes -- but all our colonies have failed to date. # ' "What better evidence could you ask for in support of my argument?" demanded Winthrop. "We've proved bases are practical, and that colonies are not." "No matter how far away or how long the periods of rotation, a man assigned to a base expects to return home. Night or day, in the performance of any duty, there is in his mind as a working background the recognition that at some future time he can go home. His base is never his home." "Precisely. That is what makes the base successful." Ashby shook his head. "No base is ever successful from the standpoint of permanent extension of a civilization. By its very nature it is transitory, impermanent. That is not what we want now." "We have the concept of permanent bases in military thinking," said Winthrop. "You can't generalize in that fashion." "Name for me a single military or expeditionary base that continued its permanency over any extended period of history." "Well -- now -- " "The concept is invalid," said Ashby. "Extensions of humanity from one area to another on a permanent basis are made by colonists. Men who do not expect to rotate, but come to live and establish homes. This is what we want on Serrengia. Humanity is preparing to make an extension of itself in the Universe. "But more than this, there are limitations of time and distance in the establishment of bases, which cannot be overcome by any amount of training of personnel. Cycles of rotation and distances from home can be lengthened beyond the capacity of men to endure. It is only when they go out with no expectation of return that time and distance cease to control them." "We do not know of any such limitations," said Winthrop. "They have not been met here in the Solar System." "We know them," said Ashby. "The thing we have not found and which we must discover before those ships depart is the quality that makes it possible for a man to ignore time and distance and his homeland. We know a good deal about the successful colonists of Earth's history. We know that invariably they were of some minority group which felt itself persecuted or limited by conditions surrounding it, or else they were fleeing the results of some crime." "If that is what you are looking for, it is no wonder you have failed," said Dr. Cowper. "We have no such minority groups in our society." "Very true," Ashby replied. "But it is not the condition of fleeing or being persecuted that generates the qualities of a perfect colonist by any means! We have examples enough of adequately persecuted groups who failed as colonists. But there is some quality, which seems to appear, if at all, only in some of those who have courage enough to flee their oppression or limiting conditions. This quality makes them successful in their colonization. "We are looking first, therefore, for individuals who would have the courage to resist severe limitations to the extent of flight, if such limitations existed. And among these we hope to find the essence of that which makes it possible for a man to cut all ties with his homeland.' # "So you are making your search," said Merton, "among the potentially rebellious and criminal?" Ashby nodded. "We have confined our study to these individuals as a result of strict historical precedent so that we might narrow the search as much as possible. You must understand, however, that to choose merely the rebellious and staff our ships with these would be foolhardy. It would be a ridiculous shotgun technique. Some of them would succeed, but we would never know which it would be. We might send twenty or a thousand ships out and establish one successful colony. "We have to do much better than that. Our consumption of facilities on this project is so great that we have to know, within a negligible margin of error, that when these groups are visited in eight or fifty years from now we will find a community of cooperative, progressive human beings. We cannot be satisfied with less!" "I'm afraid the majority of sentiment in the Commission is not in agreement with you," said Mr. Merton. "To oppose General Winthrop's trained crews with selected cutthroats and traitors may have historical precedent, but it scarcely seems the optimum proceedure in this case! proof of your thesis, Dr. Ashby, but we have certain realities of which we are sure. If we can do no better, we shall take the best available to us at the time the ships are ready. If you cannot supply us with proven crews and colonists by then we shall be forced to accept General Winthrop's recommendations and choose personnel whose reactions are at least known and predictable to a high degree. I'm sorry, but surely you can understand our position in this matter." For a long time Ashby was silent, looking from one to the other of the faces about the table. Then he spoke in a low voice, as if having reached the extremity of his resources. "Yes -- the reactions of Winthrop's men are indeed known. I suggest that you come with me and I will show you what those reactions are." He stood up and the others followed with inquiring expressions on their faces. Winthrop made a short, jerky motion of his head, as if he detected a hidden sting in Ashby's words. "What do you mean by that?" he demanded. "You don't suppose that our examinations would neglect the men on whom you have spent so much time and effort in training?" The General flushed with rage. "If you've tampered with any of my men -- ! You had no right -- !" The other Commission members were smiling in faint amusement at the General's discomfiture. "I should think it would be to your advantage to check the results of your training," said Mr. Merton. "There is only one possible check!" exclaimed General Winthrop. "Put these men on a base for a period of eight years and at a distance of forty seven light years from home and see what they will do. That is the only way you can check on them." "And if you know anything about our methods of testing, you will understand that this, in effect, is what we have done. Your best man is about to be released from the test pit. He can't have more than an hour to go." "Who have you got in your guinea pig pen?" the General demanded. "If you've ruined him -- " "Captain Louis Carnahan," said Ashby. "Shall we go down, gentlemen?" watching the final minutes of Carnahan's disintegration. General Winthrop's face was almost purple when he saw the test pit in which Carnahan was being examined. He tried to tear out the observation lens with his bare hands as he saw the Captain lift the loaded pistol to his head in the moment before the safety beam cut in. And now Ashby kept hearing Winthrop's furious, scathing voice: "You have destroyed one of the best men the Service has ever produced! I'll have your hide for this, Ashby, if it's the last act of my life." Merton and the others had been shocked also by the violence and degradation of what they saw, but whether he had made his point or not, Ashby didn't know. Carnahan, of course, would be returned to the Service within twenty four hours, all adverse effects of the test completely removed. He would be aware that he had taken it and had not passed, but there would be no trace of the bitter emotions generated during those days of examination. Ashby looked out again at the four hulls now turning from gold to red as the sun dropped lower in the sky. He had not asked Merton if the ultimatum was going to stick. He wondered how they could insist on it after what they had seen, but he didn't know. Impatiently, he turned from the window as Miss Haslam's voice came on the intercom once more. "Dr. Ashby, Mr. Jorden is still waiting to see you." Jorden. He had forgotten. The man had been waiting during his conference with the Commissioners. Jorden was the one who had been rejected for examination two weeks ago and insisted he had a right to be examined for colonization factors. He had been trying to get in ever since. He might as well get rid of the man once and for all, Ashby decided reluctantly. "Show him in," he said. Mark Jorden was a tall, blond man in his late twenties. Shaking hands with him, Ashby felt thick, strong fingers and glimpsed a massive wrist at the edge of the coat sleeve. Jorden's face was a pleasant Scandinavian pink, matched by blue eyes that looked intently into Ashby's face. They sat at the desk. "You want to be a colonist," said Ashby. "You say you want to settle forty seven light years from Earth for the rest of your life. And our preliminary psycho tests indicate you have scarcely a vestige of the basic qualities required. Why do you insist on the full examination?" Jorden smiled and shook his head honestly. "I don't know exactly. It seems like something I'd enjoy doing. Maybe it's in my people -- they liked to move around and see new places. They were seamen in the days when there weren't any charts to sail by." "It's certain that this is a situation without charts to sail by," said Ashby, "but I hardly think the word 'enjoy' is applicable. Have you thought at all of what existence means at that distance from Earth, with no communication whatever except a ship every eight years or so? Qualifications just a trifle short of insanity are required for a venture of that kind." "I'm sure you don't mean that. Dr. Ashby," said Jorden reprovingly. "Perhaps not," said Ashby. His visitor's calm assurance irritated him, as if he were the one who knew what a colonist ought to be. "I see by your application you're an electrical engineer." Jorden nodded. "Yes. My company has just offered me the head of the department, but I had to explain I was putting in an application for colonist. They think I'm crazy, of course." "Does taking the examination mean giving up your promotion?" "I'm not sure. But I rather think they will pass me up and give it to one of the other men." "You want to go badly enough to risk giving up that chance in order to take an examination which will unquestionably show you have no qualifications whatever to be a colonist?" "I think I'm qualified," said Jorden. "I insist on being given the chance. I believe I have the right to it." Ashby tried to restrain his irritation. What Jorden said was perhaps true. No one had ever raised the point before. Those previously rejected by the preliminary tests had withdrawn in good grace. It seemed senseless to waste the time of a test pit and its large crew on an obviously hopeless applicant. On the other hand, he couldn't afford to have Jorden stirring up trouble with the Colonization Commission at this critical time -- and he could guess that was exactly what Jorden' s next move would be if he were turned down again. "Our machines will find out everything about you later," said Ashby, "but I'd like you to tell me about yourself so that I may feel personally acquainted with you." Jorden shrugged. "There's not much to tell. I had the usual schooling, which wasn't anything impressive. I had my three year hitch in the Service, and I suppose that's where I began to feel there was something available in life which I had never anticipated. I suppose it sounds very silly to you, but when I first put a foot on the Moon I felt like crying. I picked up a handful of pumice and let it sift through my fingers. I looked out toward Mars and felt as if I could go anywhere, that I ought to go everywhere. "The medicos told me later that it was a crazy sort of feeling that everyone gets his first time out, but I didn't believe them. I didn't believe it was quite the same with anyone else. When I got out to Mars finally, and during my one tour on Pluto, it seemed to get worse instead of decreasing as they told me it would. When I got out I took a job in my profession, and I've been satisfied, but I've never been able to get rid of the feeling there's something I'm missing, something I ought to be doing. It's connected with everything out there." He lifted a broad hand and gestured to the horizon beyond the windows. "Perhaps your career should have been in the Service," suggested Ashby. "No. That was good enough while it lasted, but they didn't have anything I wanted permanently. When I heard about the proposed colonization on Serrengia that seemed to be it." "Your application indicates you are not married." "That's right," said Jorden. "I have no ties to hold me hack." "You understand, of course, that as a colonist you will be expected to marry, either before leaving or soon after arrival. Colonial life is family life." "I hadn't thought much about that, but it can't be too bad, I suppose. I presume my choice would be quite severely limited to a fellow colonist?" "Correct." "There is a story about my third or fourth grandfather who was given a girl to marry the night before he sailed from his homeland to settle in a new country. They had seventeen children and were said to be extraordinarily happy. My family still owns the homestead they cleared. I was bom there." "It can be done, but it doesn't conform closely with our currently accepted social mores," said Ashby hopefully. "I'm sure that won't stand in my way. If there's a woman who's willing to take a chance, I certainly will be." "There's one more thing we have to know," said Ashby. "What are you running away from? Who or what are your enemies?" Jorden laughed uncertainly. "I'm sorry, but I'm not running away from anything. As far as I know I have no enemies." "All colonists are running from something," said Ashby. "Otherwise they would stay where they are." Jorden regarded him a moment in silence, then smiled slowly. "I think you are going to have occasion to revise that thesis," he said. "A great deal of history would also have to be revised if we did," said Ashby. "At any rate, let's go down to the test pits. I'll show you what's in store for you there, and you can further decide if you insist on going through with it." Institute of Social Science were spread over a forty acre area, consisting mostly of the test pits where experimental examination of proposed colonists was being conducted. Ashby led his visitor to the ground floor where they took a pair of the electric cycles used for transportation along the vast corridors of the laboratory. A quarter of a mile away they stopped and entered a glassed-in control room fitted with a number of desks and extensive banks of electronic equipment. "This almost looks like a good sized computer setup  # said Jorden admiringly. "We use computers extensively, but this equipment is merely the recording and control apparatus for the synthetic environment established in the test pit. Please step this way . # The control room was empty now, but during a test it was occupied by a dozen technicians. It was a highly unorthodox procedure to show a prospective colonist the test pit setup before examination, but Ashby still had hopes of shunting Jorden aside without wasting the facilities on a useless test. They moved to an observation post and Ashby directed Jorden's attention to the observation lenses. "We cleaned out here this afternoon , # he said. "A Captain of the Service last occupied the pit . # Jorden looked up inquiringly. "Did he -- ?" "No. He didn't make it. Tomorrow morning you will be given a preconditioning which will set up the basic situation that you have traveled to Serrengia and are now established there in the colony. We will begin the test at a period of some length after establishment there, when difficulties begin to pile up. Other members of the party will be laboratory staff people who will provide specific, guiding stimuli to determine your reaction to them . # "Are they there constantly, night and day?" "No. When you are asleep their day's work is over and they go home . # "What if I wake up and find the whole setup is a phony?" "You won't. We have control beams constantly focussed upon the persons being tested. These are used to keep him asleep when desirable, and to control him to the extent of preventing him doing physical harm to himself or others." "Is that necessary?" said Jorden dubiously. "Why should anyone wish to do harm?" "The Captain, whom we released today, was pushed to the point of suicide," said Ashby. "We find it quite necessary to assure ourselves of adequate control at all times." "How can you set up the illusion of distance and a whole new world in such a comparatively small area?" "It is illusion, a great deal of it. Some is induced along with the initial preconditioning, other features are done mechanically, but when you are there you will have no doubt whatever that you are a colonist on the planet Serrengia. You will act accordingly, and respond to the stimuli exactly as if you had been transported to the actual planet. In this way, we are sure of finding colonists who will not blow up when they face the real situation." "How many have you found so far?" "None." Jorden was shaken for a moment, but he smiled then and said, "You have found one. Put my name down on the books." "We'll see," said Ashby grimly. "Your colony will be in the limited belt of the planet's northern hemisphere where considerable agriculture is possible. You'll be in the midst of a group trying to beat a living from a world which is neither excessively hostile nor conducive to indolence. Some of the people will be bitter and wish they had never come. They will break up in groups and fight each other. They will challenge every reason you have for your own coming. You will face your own personal impoverishment, the death of your child -- " "Child?" said Jorden. "Yes. You will be provided with a wife and three children. One of these will die, and you will react as if it were your own flesh. Your wife will oppose your staying, and demand a return to Earth. We will throw at you every force available to tear down your determination to build a colony. We shall test in every possible way the validity of your decision to go. Do you still wish to go through with it?" Jorden's grin was somewhat fainter. He took a deep breath as he nodded slowly. "Yes, I'll go through with it. I think it's what I want." When Ashby finally returned alone to the office, Miss Haslam had gone home. He put in a call anyway for Dr. Bonnie Nathan. She usually remained somewhere in the laboratory until quite late, even when not assigned to a test. In a few minutes her voice came over the phone. "John? What can I do for you?" "I thought I could let you off for a few days," said Ashby, "but we've got another one that's come up rather suddenly." He told her briefly about Mark Jorden. "It's useless, but I don't want him running to the Commission right now, so we'll put him through. You'll be the wife. We'll use Program Sixty Eight, except that we'll accelerate it." "Accelerate -- !" "Yes. It won't hurt him any. Whatever happens we can wipe up afterwards. This is simply a nuisance and I want it out of the way as quickly as possible. After that -- perhaps I can give you those few days I promised you. O.K.?" "It's all right with me," said Bonnie. "But an accelerated Sixty Eight -- " overlooking the ninety acres of bottom land salvaged from the creek grass. Mark Jorden shaded his eyes and squinted critically over the even stand of green shoots emerging from the bronzed soil. Germination had been good in spite of the poor planting time. The chance of getting a crop out was fair. If they didn't they'd be eating shoe plastic in another few months.  The ten year old boy beside him clutched his hand and edged closer as if there were something threatening him from the broad fields. "Isn't there any way at all for Earth to send us food," he said, "if we don't get a crop?" "We have to make believe Earth doesn't exist, Roddy," said Jorden. "We couldn't even let them know we need help, we're so far away." He gripped the boy's shoulders solidly in his big hands and drew him close. "We aren't going to need any help from Earth. We're going to make it on our own. After all, what would they do on Earth if they couldn't make it? Where would they go for outside help?" "I know," said the boy, "but there are so many of them they can't fail. Here, there's only the few of us." Jorden patted his shoulder gently again as they started moving toward the rough houses a half mile away. "That makes it all the easier for us," he said. "We don't have to worry about the ones who won't cooperate. We can't lose with the setup we've got." It was harder for Roddy. He remembered Earth, although he had been only four when they left. He still remembered the cities and the oceans and the forests he had known so briefly, and was cursed with the human nostalgia for a past that seemed more desirable than an unknown, fearful future. Of the other children, Alice had been a baby when they left, and Jerry had been born during the trip. They knew only Serrengia and loved its wild, uncompromising rigor. They spent their abandoned wildness of childhood in the nearby hills and forests. But with Roddy it was different. Childhood seemed to have slipped by him. He was moody, and moved carefully in constant fear of this world he Jorden' s heart ached with longing to instill some kind of joy into him. "That looks like Mr. Tibbets," said Roddy suddenly, his eyes on the new log house. "I believe you're right," said Jorden. "It looks like Roberts and Adamson with him. Quite a delegation. I wonder what they want." The colony consisted of about a hundred families, each averaging five members. Originally they had settled on a broad plateau at some distance from the river. It was a good location overlooking hundreds of miles of desert and forest land. Its soil was fertile and the river water was lifted easily through the abundant power of the community atomic energy plant which had been brought from Earth. Three months ago, however, the power plant had been destroyed in a disasterous explosion that killed almost a score of the colonists. Crops for their next season's food supply were half matured and could not be saved by any means available. The community was broken into a number of smaller groups. Three of these, composed of fifteen families each, moved to the low lands along the river bank and cleared acreage for new crops in a desperate hope of getting a harvest before the season ended. They had not yet learned enough of the cycle of weather in this area to predict it with much accuracy. Mark Jorden was in charge of one of the farms and the elected leader of the village in which he lived. Tibbets was an elderly man from the same village. In his middle sixties, he presented a puzzle to Jorden as to why he had been permitted to come. Roberts and Adamson were from the settlements farther down the river. Jorden felt certain of the reason for their visit. He didn't want to hear what they had to say, but he knew he might as well get it over with. They hailed him from the narrow wooden porch. Jorden came up the steps and shook hands with each. "Won't you come in? I'm sure Bonnie can find something cool to drink." Tibbets wiped his thin, wrinkled brow. "She already has. That girl of yours doesn't waste any time being told what to do. It's too bad some of the others can't pitch in the way Bonnie does." Jorden accepted the praise without comment, wondering if no one else at all were aware of the hot, violent protests she sometimes poured out against him because of the colony. "Come in anyway," Jorden said. "I have to go back to the watering in a little while, but you can take it easy till then." He led the way into the log house. Their homes on the plateau had been decent ones. With adequate power they had made lumber and cement, and within a year of their landing had built a town of fine homes. Among those who had been forced to abandon them, no one was more bitter than Bonnie. "You're no farmer," she said. "Why can't those who are be the ones to move?" Now, when he came into the kitchen, she was tired, but she tried to smile as always at her pleasure in seeing him again. He couldn't imagine what it would be like not having her to welcome him from the fields. "I'll get something cool for you and Roddy," she said. "Would you gentlemen like another drink?" When they were settled in the front room Tibbets spoke. "You know why we've come, Mark. The election is only a couple of months away. We can't have Boggs in for another term of governor. You've got to say you'll run against him." "As I told you last time, Boggs may be a poor excuse for the job, but I'd be worse. He's at least an administrator. I'm only an engineer -- and more recently a farmer." "We've got something new, now," said Tibbets, his eyes suddenly cold and meaningful. "The talk about his deliberately blowing up the power plant? Talk of that kind could blow up the whole colony as well. Boggs may have his faults but he's not insane." "We've got proof now," said Tibbets. "It's true. Adamson's got the evidence. He got one of the engineers who escaped the blast to talk. It's one of them who were supposed to have been killed. He's so scared of Boggs he's still hiding out. But he's got the proof and those who are helping him know it's true." "Tibbet's is right," said Adamson earnestly. "We know it's true. And something like that can't stay hidden. It's got to be brought out if we're going to make the colony survive. You can't just shut your eyes to it and say, 'Good old Boggs would never do a thing like that.' " Jorden's eyes were darker as he spoke in low tones now, hoping Roddy would not be listening in the kitchen. "Suppose it is true. Why would Boggs do such an insane thing?" "Because he's an insane man," said Tibbets. "That's the obvious answer. He wants to destroy the colony and limit its growth. He was satisfied to come here and be elected governor and run the show. He saw it as means of becoming a two-bit dictator over a group of subservient colonists. It hasn't turned out that way. He found a large percentage of engineers and scientists who would have none of his nonsense. "He saw the group becoming something bigger than himself. He had to cut it down to his own size. can't possess, but he believes that by reducing us to primitive status he can keep us in line. In either case the colony loses." "If what you say is true -- if it's actually true," Jorden said, his eyes suddenly far away,"we've got to fight him -- " "Then we can count on you?" "Yes -- you can count on me." He stood in the doorway watching the departure of the three men, but he was aware of Bonnie behind him. She rushed to him as he turned, and put her face against his chest. "Mark -- you can't do it! Boggs will kill you. This is no concern of ours. We don't belong to Maintown any more. It's their business up there. I'd go crazy if anything happened to you. You've got to think of the rest of us!" "I am thinking," said Mark. He raised her chin so he could look into her eyes. "I'm thinking that we are going to live here the rest of our lives, and so are the children. If the story about Boggs is true, we're all concerned. We wouldn't be down here if the power plant hadn't been destroyed. We'd be living in our good home in Maintown. Would you expect me to let Boggs get away with this without raising a hand to stop him?" "Yes -- I would," said Bonnie, "because there is nothing anyone can do. You know he has Maintown in the palm of his hand. He's screened out every ruffian and soured colonist in the whole group and they'll do anything he says. You can't fight them all, Mark. I won't let you." "It won't be me alone," said Jorden. "If it develops into a fight the majority of the colony will be with us. Earth will be with us. Boggs will be facing the results of it took to make man what he now teria, Ashby indulged in a late coffee knowing he wouldn't sleep anyway. Across the table Bonnie ate sparingly of a belated supper. "The threat of having to fight Boggs didn't give him much of a scare," said Ashby thoughtfully. "It'll take a lot more than a bogey man like Boggs to scare Mark  # said Bonnie. "You've got yourself a bigger quantity of man than you bargained for." "This might turn out to be more interesting than we thought. I wish there were more time to spend on him. But Merton called up again today to verify the ultimatum I told you about. We produce colonists by the time Hull Four is complete or they turn the personnel problem over to Winthrop -- even after they saw Carnahan go to pieces before their eyes." "Has it ever occurred to you," said Bonnie slowly, "that we might just possibly be off on the wrong foot? How do you know that any of the colonists of Earth's history could have stood up to the demands of Serrengia? I'm beginning to suspect that the Mayflower's passenger list would have folded quite completely under these conditions. They had it comparatively easy. So did most other successful colonists." "Yes -- ?" said Ashby. "Maybe they succeeded in spite of being rebels. If they could have come to the new lands without the pressure of flight, but in complete freedom of action, they might have made an even greater success." "But why would they have come at all, then?" "I don't know. There must be another motive capable of impelling them. In great feats of exploration, creation -- other human actions similar to colonization -- " "There are no other human actions similar to colonization," said Ashby. "Surely you realize we're dealing with something unique here, Bonnie!" "I know -- all I'm trying to say is there could be another valid motive. I think Mark Jorden's got it. There's something different about this test, and I think you ought to look in on it yourself." "What's so different about him?" "He doesn't act like the rest. He hasn't any apparent reason for being here." Ashby looked at the girl closely. She was one of his top staff members and had been with him from the beginning. The incredible strain of working day after day in the test pits was showing its effects, he thought. "I shouldn't have let you get started on this one," he said. "You're fagged out. Maybe it would be better to erase what we've done and start over, so that you can drop out." She shook her head with a quickness that surprised him. "I want to finish it, and see how Mark turns out. I'm so used to working with the bitter, anti-social ones that it's a relief to have someone who is halfway normal and gregarious. I want to be around when we find out why he's here." "Especially if he should go all the way to the end. But he won't -- " Ashby was genuinely concerned about Bonnie's condition when he looked in on her the next morning. The strain on her face was real beyond any matter of make-up or acting. He wondered just why she should be giving in to it now. Bonnie was well trained, as were all the staff members who worked in the test pits. The emotional conflicts mocked up there were not allowed to penetrate very deeply into their personal experience, yet it looked now as if Bonnie had somehow lost control of the armor to protect against such invasion. She seemed to be living the circumstances of the test program almost as intensely as Mark Jorden was doing. Such a condition couldn't be permitted to continue, but he was baffled by it. Her physical and emotional check prior to the test had not shown her threshold to be this low. Evidently there was emotional dynamite buried somewhere in the situation they had manufactured. Through the observation lens of the test pit Ashby watched Jorden begin a tour of the villages, making a quiet investigation of the situation, which he had all but ignored until it was forced to his attention. Jorden spent an hour with Adamson, listening carefully to the atomic engineer's story, and then was led to the hiding place of the engineer who claimed direct evidence that Boggs had instigated the explosion at the power plant. As Adamson left them, Ashby signaled him through the tiny button buried in the skin behind his right ear. "This is Ashby," he said. "How does it look? Do you think he's going to tackle Boggs?" "No question of that." Adamson's words came back, although he made no movement of his mouth or throat. "Jorden is one of these people with a lot of inertia. It takes a big push to get him moving, but when he really gets rolling there isn't much that can stop him, either. You're really going to have to put the pressure on to find his cracking point." "I'm afraid we're likely to find Bonnie's first. There's something about this that's hitting her too hard. Do you know what it is?" "No," said Adamson. "I thought I noticed it a little yesterday, too. Maybe we ought to check her out." "She insists on completing the program. And I'd like to go all the way with Jorden. I'm becoming rather curious about him. Keep an eye on Bonnie and let me know what you think at the end of the shift." "I'll do that," said Adamson. more than a mile beyond the last village on the bank of the river. There, in a willow hidden cave in the clay bank, he found James, the atomic engineer who was reported to know of Boggs' attack on the power plant. "I told him you were coming," said Adamson, "but I'm going to leave. You can make out better if you're alone with him. He's bitter, but he isn't armed, and he'll go along with you if you don't push him too hard." Jorden watched Adamson disappear along the bank in the direction from which they had come. He had a feeling of utter ridiculousness. This wasn't what they had come for! They had come to build an outpost of human beings, to establish man's claim in this sector of the Universe. And they were ending in a petty conflict worthy of the politics of centuries before, back on Earth. His face took on a harder set as he approached the mouth of the cave and whistled the signal notes that Adamson had taught him. If the establishment of the colony demanded this kind of fight then he had not dedicated the remainder of his life to a goal only to abandon it to a petty tyrant like Boggs. A bearded face peered cautiously through parted willows and James' voice spoke. "You're Jorden? I suppose by now everybody in the villages knows where I'm hiding out. I'm the world's prize fool for letting this parade come past my place. Come in and I'll tell you what I know. If you help get Boggs it will be worth anything it costs me." Jorden followed the man through the screening willows to the mouth of the cave. There the two of them squatted on rocks opposite each other. "I remember you now," said James. "You set up the electric plant when we were assembling the pile, didn't you? I thought we'd worked together." Jorden nodded, hoping James would go on, remembering Adamson's caution not to push him too hard, but the engineer seemed to have nothing more to say. He rubbed a hand forcibly against his other arm and looked beyond the mouth of the cave to the slow moving river. "This business concerning Boggs' destruction of the plant -- how did it start?" said Jorden finally. "How does anything of that kind start?" said James. "Boggs came to some of us and remarked in casual conversation what a shame it would be if the colony were to duplicate all over again the mistakes that sooieties on Earth have made during the past thousands of years. A few of us were sympathetic with that thought -- it would indeed be a shame. Some of the engineers thought that this was the perfect chance to set up a truly scientific society. They didn't agree that Boggs was the ideal leader, but he was the leader and the obvious one to work through. They all became convinced that a rapid industrialization and a highly technological society built upon the old rusty foundations would be most difficult to overcome in building a society on truly adequate sociological principles. You can take it from there." Yes, he could, Jorden thought. Anybody could take it from there. It was the oldest lie that men of power and position had ever concocted. Why had those particular colonists fallen for it? "What about you?" he asked James. "Were you sucked in by Boggs' arguments?" The engineer nodded. "He took all of us. And all along he never intended that more than a couple would get out alive -- by double crossing the others." "Why?" said Jorden. "Why? I've thought a lot about that, living here in this mudhole. You get to thinking about things like that when you realize there's no going back, that Boggs would kill me on sight for what I could tell -- and that the other colonists would also, because of what I've done. Adamson says I can trust him. He says I can trust you. But I don't trust anybody. I know that someday soon I'm going to get a bullet in the head from one of you. All I'm hoping is that some of you hate Boggs enough to get him first." "Why did you come to Serrengia in the first place?" "To get away. Why did anyone come? You don't give up everything you've got in order to go to some strange world and spend the rest of your life unless you've got a reason. Unless you hate what to try anything else. Unless you're so terribly afraid of what could happen to you back there that dangers out here. We all had our reasons. I'm not asking yours. It makes no difference to you what mine were. But they're all alike. We came because we were so afraid or full of hate we couldn't stay." "How did you expect to build a new world out of hate and fear of the old one?" "Who worried about what we'd build here? All we wanted to do was get away. You can't tell me you came for any other reason!" continued to stare in wonder at the atomic engineer. To what extent were James' words actually true? How completely was the colony riddled with unpredictable, purposeless characters like him? If they had fled Earth with a purpose to create something better than they left, there was a chance. But if James was right that most of them had come in blind flight with no goal at all then the Earth colony of Serrengia would be dead long before the ships came again. But Jorden did not believe this. He did not believe that any but a small fraction of the colonists had any feeling toward Earth except that of love. Most had come bocause they wanted to do this particular thing with their lives. Nothing had driven or forced them to it. "Tell me what Boggs did, and what he persuaded you to do," said Jorden. In detail, James told him how Boggs had gained influence with the technicians necessary to prepare the plant for destruction, how he had persuaded them that a new, idealistic social order demanded their obedience to this fantastic plan. Then, under the Governor's direction, two of the men betrayed the rest. Only James, who was at a slight distance from his normal operating post that night, had escaped with non-fatal injuries. "I know how you feel," said James. "You'd like to stick a knife into me now. But until you succeed in disposing of Boggs, you need to be sure I'm alive. When that's over you'll send someone around to take care of the traitor, James. But you may be sure I won't be here. I'll get through your guards!" The man was half crazed, Jorden thought, from infection and fever in half treated wounds, and probably from the effects of radiation itself. "We aren't going to set up any guards," he said. "We're going to send you medical care. Don't try to get away down the river. I'll have some men who'll take you where you'll be safe and have care. # Jorden left, on the hope that James would not attempt further flight until he was assured of Boggs' defeat. But the colony could not quickly administer the kind of defeat James wanted. They had to be orderly, even if it was a frontier community. There had to be a trial. There had to be evidence, and James had to be called to give it. He returned to the village and made arrangements with Adamson to get medical care for James. Dr. Babbit, one of the four physicians with the colony, was sufficiently out of sympathy with Boggs to be trusted. Then, with his family, he accompanied Tibbets to Maintown. On the bulletin board outside the Council Hall he hung an announcement of his candidacy for the governorship, which Tibbets had prepared for him. Tibbets made a little speech to the handfull of people who gathered to read what was on the bulletin, but Jorden declined to make any personal statement just now. He had enough to say when it came time to accuse Boggs of the crimes involved in destruction of the power plant. But among those who squinted closely at Tibbets' fine, black printing there came a look of mild awe. It had been generally assumed that Boggs would go unopposed for reelection. On the way back Tibbets' car passed the length of Maintown and took them by the deserted house which Jorden had built in their first year on Serrengia. Bonnie gave it a covetous look, contrasting its spaciousness with the primitive cabin in which she now lived. , Tibbets caught her glance. "If it were not for Boggs you would still be living there," he said. Bonnie made no answer. Both she and Roddy stared ahead, as if unable to bring their attention to bear upon the present, because of the fear incited by everything about them. Jorden was also silent, but his eyes wandered incessantly over the surrounding hills and distant farmlands. He hadn't bargained for anything like this. He had expected to find himself in a society of cooperative and uniformly energetic human beings. He knew now, without any further persuasion, that this had been a vision strictly from an ivory tower. He should have anticipated that in a group like this there would be a sprinkling of small time thugs and dictators and generally shiftless individuals who could not make a go of it in the society they had left. At home you could live and work with such without ever being more than vaguely aware of their eccentricities. Here, their deviation from required cooperation was enough to disrupt the whole community. He could understand the terror in Bonnie and Roddy. They had come only because of him, with no understanding of the colony's purpose. The present turmoil underlined their conviction that it had been pure folly to come. Somehow he'd have to show them. He'd have to make them understand there was a reason for being on Serrengia. But at the moment he did not know how to do it. continuation well into the night with a long scene at the cabin, but Ashby interrupted it as soon as they returned from Maintown. He ordered a twenty four hour rest, because of Bonnie. The extended period of sleep wouldn't harm Jorden. Bonnie, however, was furious at the interruption as she came out of the test pit. "If you're going to let it go to the end, why don't you get on with it?" she demanded. "The whole thing is so far off the track that you might as well find out as soon as possible that you're not getting anywhere." "I think we're beginning to find out a great deal. But I want you to have a rest. The hours of this shift are much too long for you." "You think you know what's going on inside Mark Jorden by watching the dials and meters, but you don't, because it's not himself he's concerned about. It's a goal outside and bigger than himself. The colony means something to him. It never meant anything at all to any of the others." "Then this is the kind of situation we've been looking for." "But we haven't the techniques or insight to understand it. We can analyze a man who's running away -- but we're not prepared for one who's running toward " The night after they returned from Maintown a terrific storm broke over the plateau. It began at supper time and for an hour poured torrents of water on the land. Jorden wanted to go down to the river to see if their diversion dams were holding. If they went out it meant long days of hard hand labor restoring them. He gave in, however, to Bonnie's plea to stay in the house with them. Roddy was frightened of the storm and looked physically ill when thunder made the walls of the cabin shake. It wouldn't change the actual facts of the damage to the dams whether Jorden examined them now or in the morning. He tried to think up stories to tell the children, but it was hard to make up some dealing only with Serrengia and ignoring Earth, as he had to do for Roddy's sake. After the rain finally stopped and Bonnie had put the children to bed there came a knock at the door. Bonnie opened it. Governor Boggs and two of Council members moved into the room. Little pools of water drained to the floor about their feet. The Governor turned slowly and grinned at Bonnie and Mark Jorden as the light from the lamp and the fireplace fell upon him. "Nasty night out," he said. "For a time I was afraid we weren't going to make it." Boggs was a short, stout man and carried himself very erect. He seemed to exaggerate his normal posture as he moved toward the chairs Bonnie offered the men. Jorden remained seated in his big wooden chair by the fireplace glancing up with cold challenge in his face as his visitors settled on the opposite side of the fire. "I'm sorry we missed you when you were in town today," said Boggs. "It was not until late this afternoon that I became aware of your visit." He reached to an inner coat pocket and drew forth a paper which he unfolded carefully. Jorden recognized it as the announcement he had tacked on the bulletin board. Boggs passed it over. "I felt sure you would wish to withdraw this, Jorden, after you had given it a little fuller consideration. I'm sure that by now you have had time to think over the matter a little more calmly and find a good many reasons why you should withdraw your announcement." "I haven't thought much about it," said Jorden, "but now that you call it to my attention I am becoming aware of an increasing number of reasons why I should not withdraw. I assure you I have no intention of doing so." Boggs smiled and folded up the paper and slipped it into the fire. "I have not been such a bad administrator during my first term of office, have I Jorden?" "That is for the people to decide -- on election day." "But why should they want to change a perfectly capable administrator," said Boggs in an injured tone, "and put in a very capable engineer and farm manager -- who has no qualifications in administrative matters?" "That too is a question to be answered on election day." Boggs shifted in his chair, dropping the deliberately maintained smile from his face. "There have been some stories circulating about the colony recently," he said. "It is possible that you have heard them and believe them." "Possibly," said Jorden. "I wouldn't. I wouldn't believe them if I were you. I wouldn't even listen to them because it might lead to dangerous and erroneous conclusions, which would cause you to convict in your mind an honest man." "That would be my error then, wouldn't it?" said Jorden. The Governor nodded. "A grave one as far as it concerns the welfare of yourself and your family, Jorden." Jorden's face hardened. "Threats of that kind aren't appropriate to your position, Governor." "Perhaps you are not aware of my exact position." "I think I am! And I intend to do everything in my power to change it. You are a small time chiseler who saw a good chance to set yourself up for life in a cushy situation where five hundred other people would obey your slightest whim. That's an old fashioned situation, Boggs, and you can't set to resort to sabotage and murder." Boggs eyes narrowed and he looked at Jorden for a long time. "I am afraid, then," he said, "that there is nothing I can do except put a stop to your repeating these lying stories about me." The Governor's eyes never moved, but Jorden shifted in sudden, wild indecision. Almost simultaneously there were two shots exploding in the narrow cabin, and then a third. Jorden and Boggs leaped out of their chairs. From the kitchen doorway came the steel-taut voice of Bonnie. "Don't move any further, Mr. Boggs. Put your hands in the air. Get his gun, Mark -- in the pocket on this side." For a moment Jorden hesitated, his eyes held by the sight of Boggs' two gunmen on the floor, blood spreading in tiny rivulets. He took the pistol from the Governor's pocket and held it in readiness. "I ought to kill you now, Boggs," he said. "Fortunately, or unfortunately, we have to set a precedent in such matters if the colony is to survive. We have to go through the formality of a trial for sabotaging the power plant and murdering those killed there. Actually, it would be a good idea if you just took off over the hills and went as far as you could before the jungle got you. It would save us all a great deal of trouble." Hope surged in Boggs' eyes as he recognized that Jorden was incapable of shooting him down. Then bitterness mingled with that hope. "You won't get away with this, Jorden. We'll see what the people have to say about your wife shooting my men down while my back is turned." "Their backs weren't turned," said Jorden. "Get them out of here now. If you want to save explanations as to why you came here tonight you might find a convenient spot and bury them -- before you take out over the hills yourself." Watching until they could no longer see the lights of Boggs' car, they closed the door. Bonnie collapsed with a moan, cringing in Jorden's arms. "Now they'll kill us all," she said in a lifeless voice. "We haven't got a chance. For this we followed your great dream of colonizing an outpost of the Universe!" That night Roddy was sick. Six days later he was dead. Before they decided to go through with this section of the program there were long and heated conferences between Bonnie and Ashby and the staff working at the test pit. Bonnie insisted the program should be dropped here. They already knew that Jorden was what they were searching for. They had only to analyze the factors that had brought him to the test and they would have what they needed to identify as many colonists as the project required. He didn't need to be broken down any further. Ashby knew this was not true. Jorden's basic purpose as a colonist had not yet been brought into sight. Ashby recognized that his goal was almost certainly the perpetuation of the colony -- and he was the first one who had maintained such a goal this far -- but they had to know the drive that existed behind the goal. If it should develop a basis wholly in flight it would still crack before completion of the program. But Ashby continued to be hesitant on Bonnie's account. Roddy's illness and death meant a continuous tour in the test pit for the full six days. And this was cut from the scheduled eight it normally occupied. Why it was impossible for Bonnie to reduce her own personal tension on the project, Ashby didn't know, but she had become increasingly susceptible as time went on. Word of Jorden's persistence was spreading among the staff personnel of other sections of the lab. A televiewer Ashby brought an image subdued excitement was stirring of her face up close, studying her among them. In most cases so far from every angle during the long examined, the colonist had by now nights when she and Mark Jorden either knuckled under to Boggs or exchanged vigil over Roddy. He engaged in a futile personal duel scanned her face by the firelight of with him. If they went further, they the rough cabin, almost invariably collapsed under After three days, Jorden was runthe pressure of Bonnie's blame and ning close to exhaustion, but in began cursing Serrengia as well as spjte of the strain Bonnie seemed the Earth from which they fled. capable of remaining there forever. Ashby ordered resumption of the Her eyes watched Jorden's face, program. It was an agony for him, taking in his every movement and too, watching Bonnie during the expression. long hours of Roddy's illness. It And after three days of watching seemed every bit as much a test of Bonnie's face in close-up, Ashby her strength and endurance as it suddenly murmured aloud to himwas of Mark Jorden's. With the self in disbelief and astonishment. Dr. Miller, who was Tibbets in the program, came up to his side. "What is it, Ashby? Has something gone wrong?" Ashby shook his head slowly in wonder and pointed to the image in the viewer. "Look at her," he said. "Can't you see what has happened to Bonnie? We should have caught it long ago. No wonder this job is tearing her apart -- no wonder she doesn't want it to end the way it must -- or end at all, for that matter!" "I still don't see what you are talking about," said Miller in exasperation. "I don't see that anything has happened to her. She looks like the same old Bonnie to me." "Does she?" said Ashby. "Watch her when she looks at Jorden. Can't you see she has fallen in love with him?" class of people like Roddy, Jorden thought. People incapable of surviving beyond the world on which they were born. Since the day of his coming Roddy had fought an unceasing battle with this hated, alien world of Serrengia. He awoke each morning to renew the unequal contest before he was even out of bed -- and knowing fully that he was beaten before he started. Jorden had tried every way he knew to instill into his son some of his own love for this new world. It was a good world and the men who grew up on it in the years to come would love it with all their hearts. But Roddy could not give up his reaching back, his longing for Earth. He shrank before the problem of their doubtful food supply. He caught snatches of adult worries and nourished them with a dark agony that made it appear to Jorden sometimes as if the boy were walking in a nightmare. It had been cruel and brutal to bring him. But there was no use blaming himself for that. If only Bonnie would stop blaming him! He couldn't have known ahead of time that Roddy was one of those who could not be -- transplanted. Fervently, he prayed for the boy's life now and vowed that when the ships came again he would be free to go home. And always Bonnie's eyes were upon him. Sitting in the firelight of the cabin, he could feel her staring at him, accusing him, hating him for bringing them to Serrengia. Once he looked up and caught her glance. "Don't hate me so much, Bonnie!" he said. "You're driving Roddy down. I can feel it. Reach out to him with your love and don't let him go." But Roddy said later that same evening, "Maybe I'll go back to Earth now, Daddy. Do you think that's where little boys go when they die?" He wanted to return so badly it, Jordon thought. That's what Dr. Babbit said: "Roddy doesn't even want to live, Jorden. As incredible as it seems, he's literally dying of homesickness. I'm afraid there's not a thing I can do for him. I'm sorry, but it's up to you. You and Bonnie are the only ones who can give him a desire to remain, if anyone can." Roddy's hate for Serrengia was greater than any desire they could induce in him to live. With ease, he conquered all the miracle drugs Dr. Babbit lavished from the colony's restricted store. He died on the sixth night after Boggs' visit. The funeral was held in the little community church built when the colonists first laid out Maintown. Mark and Bonnie Jorden were almost oblivious to the words spoken over the body of Roddy by the Reverend Wagner, who had come as the colonists' spiritual adviser. Bonnie's hands were folded on her lap, and she kept her eyes down throughout the service. She was aware of the agony within Mark Jorden. It was a real agony, and its strength almost frightened her, for she had never before seen such a response in any man who had gone through the test this far. They were men concerned only with themselves, incapable of the love that Jorden could feel for a son. He reached out and took one of her hands in his own. She could feel the emotion within him, the tightening and trembling of his big, hard-muscled arm. Ashby was watching. Over the private communication system that linked them he murmured, "Cry, Bonnie! Make it real. Make him hate himself and everything he's done since he decided to become a colonist -- if you can! This is where we've got to find out whether he can crack or not -- and why." "You can't break him," said Bonnie. "He's the strongest man I've ever known. If you find his breaking point it will be when you destroy him utterly. You've got to quit before you reach that point!" "All that we've done will be useless if we quit now, Bonnie. Just a few more hours and then it will all be over -- " As if his words had touched a hidden trigger, she did begin to cry with a deep but almost inaudible sound and a heavy movement of her shoulders. Mark Jorden put his arm about her as if to force away her grief. "I know, Bonnie," said Ashby softly. "I can see in your face what's happened to you. It's going to be all right. Everything doesn't end for you when the test is over." "Oh, shut up!" said Bonnie in a sudden rage that made her tears come faster. "If I ever work on another of your damned experiments it will be when I've lost my senses entirely! You don't know what this does to people. I didn't know either -- because I didn't care. But now I know -- " "You know that no harm results after we've erased and corrected all inadequate reactions at the end of the test. You're letting your feelings cover up your full awareness of what we're doing." "Yes, and I suppose that when it's over I had better submit to a little erasing myself. Then Bonnie can go back to work as a little iced steel probe for some more of your guinea pigs!" "Bonnie -- !" She made no answer to Ashby, but lay her head on Jorden's shoulder while her sobbing subsided, How did it happen? she asked herself. It wasn't anything she had wanted. It had just happened. It had happened that first day when he came in from the field at the beginning of the experiment with all of the planted background that made him think he was meeting Bonnie for the thousandth time instead of the first. She was supposed to be an actress and receive his husbandly kiss with all the skilled mimicry that made her so valuable to the lab. But it hadn't been like that. She had played sister, mother, daughter, wife -- a hundred roles to as many other tested applicants. For the first time she saw one as a human being instead of a sociological specimen. That's the way it was when she met Mark Jorden. There was no answer to it, she thought bitterly as she rested her face against his shoulder. Ashby was right -- just a few more hours and it would all be over. All Jorden's feeling for her as his wife was induced by the postulates of the test, just as were his feelings for Roddy. His subjective reactions were real enough, but they would vanish when their stimulus was removed with the test postulates. He would look upon the restored Roddy as just another little boy -- and upon Bonnie, the Doctor in Sociology, as just another misemployed female. She raised her head and dried her eyes as she sensed that the service was ending. Actually, Ashby was right, of course. They had to go on, and the sooner it came to an end the better it would be for her. She would submit to alteration of her own personal data after the test, she thought. She would let them erase all feelings and sentiments she held for Mark Jorden, and then she would be as good as new. After all, if a sociologist couldn't handle his own reactions in a situation of this kind he wasn't of much value in his profession! turned from the little burial ground near the church. There were quite a number of other graves besides Roddy's, but his was the loneliest, Jorden thought. He had never forgiven them for robbing him of his home and the only world in which he could live. He felt the growing coldness of Bonnie as they came up to their shabby cabin that had once looked so brave to him. Serrengia had cost him Bonnie, too. Even before Roddy. She had remained only because it was her duty. He took her hand as she put a foot on the doorstep. "Bonnie -- " She looked at him bitterly, her eyes searching his face as if to find something of the quality that once drew her to him. "Don't try to say it, Mark -- there's nothing left to say." He let her go, and the two children followed past him into the house. He sat down on the step and looked out over the fields that edged the river bank. His mind felt numbed by Roddy's passing. Bonnie's insistent blame made him live it over and over again. The light from the green of the fields was like a caress to his eyes. I should hate it, he thought. I should hate the whole damned planet for what it's taken from me. But that's not right -- Serrengia hasn't taken anything. It's only that Bonnie and I can't live in the same world, or live the same kind of lives. Roddy was like her. But I didn't know then. I didn't know how either of them were. We have to go on. There's no going back. Maybe if I'd known, I would have made it different for all of us. I can't now, and it would be crazy to start hating Serrengia for the faults that are in us. Who could do anything but love this fresh, wild planet of ours -- ? He ought to go down and take a look at the field, he thought. He rose to go in and tell Bonnie. The crops hadn't had water since Roddy took sick. He found Bonnie in the bedroom with the drawers of their cabinets open and their trunk in the middle of the floor, its lid thrown back. Clothes lay strewn on the bed. He felt a slow tightening of his scalp and of the skin along the back of his neck. "Bonnie -- " She straightened and looked into his face with cold, distant eyes. "I'm packing, Mark," she said. "I'm leaving. I'm going home. The girls are going with me. You can stay until they dig your grave beside Roddy's, but I'm going home." Jorden's face went white. He strode forward and caught her by the arms. "Bonnie -- you know there's no way to go home. There won't be a ship for six years. This is home, Bonnie. There's no other place to go." For a moment the set expression of her face seemed to melt. She frowned as if he had told her some mystery she could not fathom. Then her countenance cleared and its blank determination returned. "I'm going home," she repeated. "You can't stop me. I've done all a wife can be expected to do. I've given my son as the price of your foolishness. You can't ask for more." He had to get out. He felt that if he remained another instant just then something inside him would explode under the pressure of his grief. He went to the front door and stood leaning against it while he looked over the landscape that almost seemed to reach out for him in hate as it had for Roddy. So you want her, too! he cried inside himself. # Alice came up and tugged at his hand as he stood there. "What's the matter, Daddy? What's the matter with Mama?" He bent down and kissed her on the forehead. "Nothing, honey. You go and play for a moment while I help Mother." "I want to help, too!" "Please, Alice -- " He moved back to the bedroom. Bonnie was carefully examining each item of apparel she packed in the big trunk. She didn't look up as he came in. "Bonnie," he said in a low voice, "are you going to leave me?" She put down the dress she was holding and looked up at him. "Yes I'm leaving you," she said. "You've got what you wanted -- all you've ever wanted." She looked out towards the fields, shimmering in the heat of the day. "That's not true, Bonnie. You know it isn't. I've always loved you and needed you, and it's grown greater every hour we've been together." "Then you'll have to prove it! Give up this hell-world you want us to call home, and give us back our Earth. If you love me, you can prove it." "It's no test of love to make a man give up the goal that means his life to him. You'd despise me forever if I let you do that to me. I'd rather you went away from me now with the feeling you have at this time, because I'd know I had your love -- " Bonnie remained still and unmoving in his arms, her face averted from his. He put his hand to her chin and turned her face to him. "You do love me, Bonnie? That hasn't changed, has it?" She put her head against his chest and rocked from side to side as if in some agony. "Oh, no -- Mark! That will never change. Damn you, Ashby, damn you -- " In the control room Ashby and Miller groaned aloud to each other, and a technician looked at them questioningly, his hand on a switch. Ashby shook his head and stared at the scene before him. Jorden shook Bonnie gently in his arms. "Ashby?" he said. "Who's Ashby?" Bonnie looked up, the blank despair on her face again. "I don't remember -- " she said haltingly. "Someone I used to -- know -- " "It makes no difference," Jorden said. "What matters is that you love me and you're going to stay with me. Let's put these things away now, darling. I know how you've felt the past week, but we've got to put it behind us and look forward to the future. Roddy would want it that way." "There's no future to look forward to," said Bonnie dully. "Nothing here on Serrengia. There's no meaning to any of us being here. I'm going back to Earth." "It does have a meaning! If I could only make you see it. If you could only understand why I had to come -- " "Then tell me if you know! You've never tried to tell me. You live as if you know something so deep and secret you can live by it every hour of your life and find meaning in it. But I can only guess at what it is you've chosen for your god. If it's anything but some illusion, put it into words and make me know it, too!" "I've never tried," said Jorden hesitantly. "I've never tried to put it into words. It's something I didn't know was in me until I heard of the chance to colonize Serrengia. And then I knew I had to come. "It's like a growing that you feel in every cell. It's a growing out and away, and it's what you have to do. You're a sperm -- an ovum -- and if you don't leave the parent body you die. You don't have to hate what you leave behind as James and Boggs and so many of the others do. It gave you life, and for that you're grateful. But you've got to have a life of your own. "It's what I was born to do, Bonnie. I didn't know it was there, but now I've found it I can't kill it." "You have to kill it -- or me." "You don't mean that. You're part of me. You've been a part of me so long you feel what I feel. You're lying, Bonnie, when you say you're going away. You don't want to go. You want to go on with me, but something's holding you back. What is it, Bonnie? Tell me what it is that holds you back!" Her eyes went wide. For a moment she thought he was talking out of the real situation, not the make-believe of the test. Then she recognized the impossibility of this. Her eyes cast a pleading glance in the direction of the observation tubes. Ashby spoke fiercely: "Go on, Bonnie! Don't lose the tension. Push him. We've got to know. He's almost there!" She moved slowly to the dresser where she had laid Jorden's hunting knife previously, as if with no particular intent. Now, out of sight of Jorden, her hand touched it. She picked it up. Ashby's voice came again. "Bonnie -- move!" She murmured, "Lost -- " And then she whirled about, knife in hand. She cried aloud. "I can't go on any further! Can't you see this is enough? Stop it! Stop it -- " Jorden leaped for the knife. In the observation room a technician touched a switch. tion of success reached after a long and strenuous effort. Bonnie was seated across the desk from him, but he sat at an angle so that he could see the four hulls out of the corner of his eye. One and Two had made their test flights and the others would not be far behind. The expedition would be a success, too. There was no longer any doubt of that, because he knew now where to look for adequate personnel. "I'm glad I didn't foul up your test completely, anyway," said Bonnie slowly. "Even if what you say about Mark shouldn't turn out to be true.' Ashby moved his chair around to face her directly. She was rested, and had gone through a mental reorientation which had removed some of the tension from her face. "You didn't foul it up at all," he said. "We went far enough to learn that he would have survived even your suicide, and would have continued in his determination to carry the colony forward. Nothing but his own death will stand in his way if he actually sets out on such a project. Are you completely sure you want to be tied to such a single purposed man as Mark Jorden is?" "There's no doubt of that! But I just don't feel as if I can face him now -- with his knowing... How can I ever be sure his feeling for me was not merely induced by the test experience, and might change as time goes on? You should have wiped it all out, and let us start over from scratch. It would have been easier that way." "There isn't time enough before the ships leave. But why should we have erased it all? We took away the postulates of the test and left Bonnie in his memory. His love for you didn't vanish when the test postulates went. As long as he has a memory of you he will love you. So why make him fall in love with you twice? No use wasting so much important time at your age. Here he comes -- " Bonnie felt she couldn't possibly turn around as the door opened behind her. She heard Mark's moment of hesitation, his slow steps on the carpet. Ashby was smiling a little and nodding. Then she felt the hard grip of Mark's hands on her shoulders. He drew her up and turned her to face him. Her eyes were wet. "Bonnie -- " he said softly. Ashby turned to the window again. The gantry cranes were hoisting machinery in Hull Three. Maybe he had been wrong about there not being enough time between now and takeoff for Mark and Bonnie to discover each other all over again. They worked pretty fast. But then, as he had mentioned, why waste time at their age? They were smiling, holding tight to each other as Ashby turned back from the window. "They tell me I passed," said Jorden. "I'm sorry about taking your best Social Examiner away from you -- but as you told me in the beginning this colonization business is a family affair." "Yes -- that happens to be one of the few things I was right about." Ashby motioned them to the chairs. "Through you we located our major error. It was our identifying rebellion with colonization ability. Colonization is not a matter of rebellion at all. The two factors merely happen to accompany each other at times. But the essence of colonization is a growth factor -- of the kind you so very accurately described when Bonnie pushed you into digging up some insight on the matter. It is so often associated with rebellion because rebellion is or has been, historically, necessary to the exercise of this growth factor. "The American Colonists, for example, were rebels only incidentally. As a group, they possessed a growth factor forcing them beyond the confines of the culture in which they lived. It gave them the strength for rebellion and successful colonization. And it is so easy to confuse colonists of that type with mere cutthroats, thugs, and misfits. The latter may or may not have a sufficiently high growth factor. In any case, their primary drive is hate and fear, which are wholly inadequate motives for successful colonization. "The ideal colonist does not break with the parent body, nor does he merely extend it. He creates a new nucleus capable of interchange with the parent body, but not controlled by it. He wants to build beyond the current society, and the latter is not strong enough to pull him back into it. Colonization may take everything else of value in life and give nothing but itself in return, but the colonists' desire for new life and growth is great enough to make this sufficient. It is not a mere transplant of an old life. It is conception and gestation and birth. "Our present society allows almost unlimited exercise of the the colonists growth factor in individuals, regardless of how powerful it may be. That is why we have failed to colonize the planets. They offer no motive or satisfaction sufficient to outweigh the satisfactions already available. As a result we've had virtually no applicants coming to us because of hampered growth. You are one of the very few who might come under our present approach. And even a very slight change of occupational conditions would have kept you from coming. You didn't want the department leadership offered you, because it would limit the personally creative functions you enjoyed. That one slim, hairbreadth factor brought you in." "But how do you expect now to get any substantial number of colonists?" exclaimed Jorden. "We'll put on a recruiting campaign. We'll go to the creative groups -- the engineers, the planners, the artists -- we'll show that opportunity for creative functioning and growth will be far greater in the work of building colonial outposts than in any activity they now enjoy. And we won't have to exaggerate, either. It's true. "We'll be able to send out a colony of whom we can be certain. In the past, colonies have invariably failed when they consisted only of members fleeing from something, without possessing an adequate growth factor. "When this becomes thoroughly understood in my field, I shall probably never live down my initial error of assuming that a colonist had to hate or fear what he left behind in order to leave it forever. The exact opposite is true. Successful colonization of the Universe by Earthmen will occur only when there is a love and respect for the Homeland -- and a capacity for complete independence from it." Ashby pressed his fingers together and looked at his visitors soberly. "There is only one thing further," he said. "We've found out also that Bonnie is not essentially a colonist -- " Bonnie's face went white. She pushed Jorden's arm away and leaned across the desk. "You knew -- ! Then we can't -- Why didn't you tell me this in the beginning?" "Please don't be hasty, Bonnie," said Ashby. "As I was about to say, we have found, however, that another condition exists in which you can become eligible and stable through a genuine love for a qualified colonist, to the extent you are his ambitions and desires. This is strictly a feminine possibility -- a woman can become a sort of second order colonist, you might say. "Of course, Jorden, you still have to make the basic decision as to whether you want to go to Serrengia or not. We have found out merely that you can . # "I think there's no doubt about my wanting to," said Jorden. He turned Bonnie around in his arms again, and Ashby chuckled mildly. "I have always said there is no piece of data you cannot find, provided you can devise the proper experimental procedure for turning it up," he said. Poor Henry was an unhappy husband whose wife had a habit of using bad cliches. Alfear was a genii who was, quite like most humans, a creature of habit. T heir murder compact was absolutely perfect, with -- No Strings By Lester Illustrated by der is a simple matter. Drive out some night to a lonely road, find a single person walking along out of sight of anyone else, offer him a ride, knife him, and go home. In such a crime, there's no reason to connect killer and victim -- no motive, no clue, no suspect. To achieve the perfect murder of a man's own wife, however, is a different matter. For obvious reasons, husbands are always high on the suspect list. Who has a better reason for such a crime? Henry Aimsworth had been pondering the problem with more than academic interest for some time. It wasn't that he hated his wife. He simply couldn't stand the sight or sound of her; even thinking about her made his flesh crawl. If she had Attached del Hey Kelly Freas he'd have been content to wish her all the happiness she was capable of discovering. But Emma, unfortunately, was fond of being his wife; perhaps she was even fond of him. Worse, she was too rigidly bound to trite morality to give him grounds to sue. There was no hope of her straying. What had been good enough for her mother was good enough for her, and saved all need of thinking; a woman needed a husband, her place was in the home, marriage was forever, and what would the neighbors think? Anyhow, she'd have had difficulty being unfaithful, even if she tried. She'd been gaining some ten pounds every year for the eleven years they had been married, and she'd long since stopped worrying about taking care of her appearance. He looked up at her now, letting the book drop to his lap. She sat watching the television screen with a vacant look on her face, while some comic went through a tired routine. If she enjoyed it, there was no sign, though she spent half her life in front of the screen. Then the comic went off, and dancers came on. She went back to darning a pair of his socks, as seriously as if she didn't know that he had always refused to wear the lumpy results. Her stockings had runs, and she still wore the faded apron in which she'd cooked supper. He contrasted her with Shirley unconsciously, and shuddered. In. the year since Shirley Bates had come to work in his rare book store, he'd done a lot of such shuddering, and never because of the slim blonde warmth of his assistant. Since that hot day in August when they'd closed the shop early and he'd suggested a ride in the country to cool off, he and Shirley... He was interrupted in his more pleasant thoughts by the crash of scissors onto the floor, and his eyes focussed on the deepening folds of fat as Emma bent to retrieve them. "Company coming," she said, before he could think of anything to prevent the mistaken cliche. Then she became aware that he was staring at her. "Did you take the garbage out, Henry?" "Yes, dear," he answered woodenly. Then, because he knew it was coming anyhow, he filled in the inevitable. "Cleanliness is next to godliness." She nodded solemnly, and began putting aside her darning. "That's finished. Mama always said a stitch in time saves nine. If you'd cut your toenails, Henry..." He could feel his skin begin to tingle with irritation. But there was no escape. If he went upstairs to his bedroom, she'd be up at once, puttering about. If he went to the basement, she'd find the canned food needed checking. A woman's place was with her husband, as she'd repeatedly told him. Probably she couldn't stand her own company, either. Then he remembered something he'd stored away. "There's a new picture at the Metro," he said as quietly as he could. "Taylor's starred, I think. I was going to take you, before this extra work came up." He could see her take the bait and nibble at it. She had some vague crush left for Taylor. She stared at the television set, shifted her bulk, and then shook her head reluctantly. "It'd be nice, Henry. But going at night costs so much, and -- well, a penny saved is a penny earned." "Exactly. That's what I meant to say." He even relaxed enough to overlook the platitude, now that there was some hope. "I saved the price of lunch today. The nut who wanted King in Yellow was so tickled to get the copy finally, he insisted on treating. You can even take a cab home afterwards." "That's nice. It'll probably rain, the way my bunion's been aching." She considered it a second more, before cutting off the television. He watched as she drew off the apron and went for her coat and hat. making a pretense of dabbing on make-up. She might as well have worn the apron, he decided, as she came over to kiss him a damp goodbye. ley, but her mother was visiting her, and the conversation would have to be too guarded at her end. If he could find some way of getting rid of Emma... It wouldn't even be murder, really. More like destroying a vegetable -- certainly no worse than ending the life of a dumb cow to make man's life more worth living. It wasn't as if she had anything to live for or to contribute. It would almost be a kindness, since she lived in a perpetual state of vague discontent and unhappiness, as if somehow aware that she had lost herself. But unfortunately, the law wouldn't look at it in such a light. He'd only been thinking actively of getting her out of the way since August, however; and somehow, with time, there must be some foolproof scheme. There was that alcohol-injection system -- but it required someone who would drink pretty freely first, and Emma was a teetotaler. Maybe, though, if he could get her to taking some of those tonics for women... He dropped it for the moment and turned back to the book. It was an odd old volume he'd received with a shipment for appraisal. There was no title or date, but the strange leather binding showed it was old. Apparently it had been hand-set and printed on some tiny press by the writer, whose name was omitted. It seemed to be a mixture of instructions on how to work spells, conjure demons, and practice witchcraft, along with bitter tirades against the group who had driven the writer out and forced him, as he put it, to enter a compact with the devil for to be a wizard, which is like to a male witch. Henry had been reading it idly, slowly deciding the book was authentic enough, however crazy the writer was. The book had no particular value as a collector's item, but he could probably get a fine price from some of the local cultists, particularly since there were constant promises in it that the writer was going to give a surefire, positive and simple recipe for conjuring up a demon without need of virgin blood, graveyard earth or unicorn horn. He skimmed through it, looking for the formula. It turned up on the fifth page from the end, and was everything the writer had claimed. A five-sided figure drawn on the floor with ordinary candle wax, a pinch of sugar inside, a bit of something bitter outside, two odd but simple finger gestures, and a string of words in bad Latin and worse Greek. There was a warning that it would work without the pentagram, sugar and bitters, but at parlous risk to the conjurer without such protection. He frowned. Too simple for the cultists, he realized -- unless he could somehow persuade them that the trick lay in some exact phrasing or gesturing pattern which took experiment. They liked things made difficult, so they'd have a good alibi for their faith when the tricks failed. If he could show them in advance that it didn't work, but hint that a good occultist might figure out the right rhythm, or whatever... He read it through again, trying to memorize the whole thing. The gestures were -- so -- and the words -- umm... There was no flash of fire, no smell of sulphur, and no clap of thunder. There was simply a tall creature with yellowish skin and flashing yellow eyes standing in front of the television set. His head was completely hairless, and he was so tall that he had to duck slightly to keep from crashing into the ceiling. His features were too sharp for any human face. There were no scales, however; his gold cape and black tights were spangled, and he wore green shoes with turned up toes. But generally, he wasn't bad looking. "Mind if I sit down?" the creature asked. He took Henry's assent for granted and dropped into Emma's chair, folding his cape over one arm and reaching for an apple on the side table. "Glad to see you're not superstitious enough to keep me locked up in one of those damned pentagrams. Drat it, I thought the last copy of that book was burned and I was free. Your signal caught me in the middle of dinner." ing the sweat trickle down his nose. The book had warned against summoning the demon without the protective devices! But the thing seemed peaceful enough for the moment. He cleared his voice. "You mean -- you mean magic works?" "Magic -- shmagic!" the creature snorted. He jerked his thumb toward the television. "To old Ephriam -- the crackpot who wrote the book before he went completely crazy -- that set would have been more magic than I am. I thought this age knew about dimensions, planes of vibrations, and simultaneous universes. You humans always were a backward race, but you seemed to be learning the basic facts. Hell, I suppose that means you'll lay a geas on me, after I was hoping it was just an experimental summons!" Henry puzzled it over, with some of the fright leaving him. The scientific sounding terms somehow took some of the magic off the appearance of the thing. "You mean those passes and words set up some sort of vibrational pattern..." The hairless fellow snorted again, and began attacking the grapes. "Bunk, Henry! Oh, my name's Alfear, by the way. I mean I was a fool. I should have gone to my psychiatrist and taken the fifty year course, as he advised. But I thought the books were all burned and nobody knew the summons. So here I am, stuck with the habit. Because that's all it is -- a conditioned reflex. Pure compulsory behavior. I'm sensitized to receive the summons, and when it comes, I teleport into your plane just the way you pull your hand off a hot stove. You read the whole book, I suppose? Yeah, just my luqk. Then you know I'm stuck with any job you give me -- practically your slave. I can't even get back without dismissal or finishing your task ! That's what comes of saving money by not going to my psychiatrist." He muttered unhappily, reaching for more grapes, while Henry began to decide nothing was going to happen to him, at least physically. Souls were things he wasn't quite sure of, but he couldn't see how just talking to Alfear could endanger his. "Still," the creature said thoughtfully, "it could be worse. No pentagram. I never did get mixed up with some of the foul odors and messes some of my friends had to take. And I've developed quite a taste for sugar; tobacco, too." He reached out and plucked a cigarette out of Henry's pack, then a book of matches. He lighted it, inhaled, and rubbed the flame out on his other palm. "Kind of weak tobacco, but not bad. Any more questions while I smoke this? There's no free oxygen where I come from, so I can't smoke there." "But if you demons answer such -- such summons, why don't people know about it now?" Henry asked. "I'd think more and more people would be going in for this sort of thing. If the wizards were right all along... "They weren't, and we're not demons. It didn't get started until your Middle Ages. And if it hadn't been for old Apalon..." Alfear lighted another cigarette off the butt, which he proceeded to extinguish on the tip of his sharp tongue. He scratched his head thoughtfully, and then went on. "Apalon was studying your worship. You see, we've been studying your race the way you study white rats, using lower races to explain our own behavior. Anyhow, he got curious and figured out a way to mentalize himself into your plane. He was sort of a practical joker, you might say. So he picked a time when some half-crazy witch was trying to call up the being you worship as Satan to make some kind of a deal. Just as she finished, he popped up in front of her, spitting out a bunch of phosphorus to make a nice smoke and fire effect, and agreed with all her mumbojumbo about having to do what she wanted. She wanted her heart fixed up then, so he showed her how to use belladonna and went back, figuring it was a fine joke. "Only he made a mistake. There's something about moving between planes that lowers the resistance to conditioning. Some of our people can take five or six trips, but Apalon was one of those who was so conditioning-prone that he had the habit fixed after the first trip. The next time she did the rigamarole, back he popped. He had to dig up gold for her, hypnotize a local baron into marrying her, and generally keep on the constant qui vive, until she got sloppy and forgot the pentagram she thought protected her and which he was conditioned to. But after he disintegrated her, he found she'd passed on the word to a couple of other witches. And he knew somebody at the Institute was bound to find what a fool he'd made of himself. "So he began taking members aside and telling them about the trick of getting into your world. Excellent chance for study. Have to humor the humans by sticking to their superstitions, of course. One by one, they went over on little trips. It wasn't hard to find some superstitious dolt trying to summon something, since word had got around in your world. One of us would pop up, and that spread the word further. Anyhow, when Apalon was sure each member had made enough trips to be conditioned, he'd tell him the sad truth, and swear him to secrecy on penalty of being laughed out of the Institute. The old blaggard wound up with all of us conditioned. There was quite a flurry of witchcraft here, until we finally found a psychiatrist who could break the habit for us. Even then, it was tough going. We'd never have made it without the inquisitions and witch-burnings one of our experimental sociologists managed to stir up." Alfear put out the third cigarette butt and stood up slowly. "Look, I don't mind a chat now and then, but my wives are waiting dinner. How about dismissing me?" "Umm." Henry had been thinking while he listened. It had sounded like a reasonable explanation on the whole, except for the bit about Apalon's disintegrating the witch. Apparently as long as a man wasn't too unreasonable, there was a certain usefulness to having such friends on call. "What about the price for your help? I mean -- well, about souls..." Alfear twitched his ears disgustedly. "What the deuce would I do with your soul, Henry? Eat it? Wear it? Don't be a shnook!" "Well, then -- well, I've heard about wishes that were granted, but they all had a trick attached. If I asked for immortality, you'd give it, say; but then I'd get some horrible disease and beg and plead for death. Or ask for money, and then find the money was recorded as being paid to a kidnaper, or something." "In the first place, I couldn't give you immortality," Alfear said, as patiently as he apparently could. "Your metabolism's not like ours. In the second place, why should I look for tainted money? It's enough nuisance doing what you ask, without looking for tricks to pull. Anyhow, I told you I half-enjoy visiting here. As long as you're reasonable about it, I don't mind keeping my end of the compulsion going. If you've got something to ask, ask away. There are no strings attached." The creature seemed to be quite sincere. Henry considered it briefly, staring at a large tinted picture of Emma, and took the plunge. "Suppose I asked you to kill my wife for me -- say by what looked like a stroke, so nobody would blame me?" "That seems reasonable enough," Alfear agreed easily. "I could break a few blood vessels inside her skull... Sure, why not? Only the picture in your mind is so distorted, I wouldn't know her. If she's like that, why'd you ever marry her?" "Because she seemed different from other women, I guess," Henry admitted. "When I tipped the canoe over, and I figured she'd be mad because her dress was ruined, all she said was something about not being sugar, so she wouldn't melt." He shuddered, remembering all the times she'd said it since. "You won't have any trouble. Look, can you really read my mind?" "Naturally. But it's all disorganized." "Umm. Well." It gave him a queasy feeling to think of anyone seeing his secret thoughts. But this fellow apparently didn't work by human attitudes, anyhow. He groped about, and then smiled grimly. "All right, then. You can tell I think of her as my wife. And just to make sure, she'll be sure to say something about early to bed and early to rise ; she says that every single damned night, Alfear! She never misses." Alfear grunted. "Sounds more reasonable every minute, Henry. All right, when your wife says that, I pop out and give her a stroke that will kill her. How about dismissing me now?" "No strings?" Henry asked. He watched carefully as Alfear nodded assent, and he could see no sign of cunning or trickery. He caught his breath, nodded, and closed his eyes. Seeing something vanish was nothing he wanted. "Dismissed." he opened his eyes, but there was no other sign of the thing. He found some fruit still in the refrigerator and restocked the bowl. Then he closed the strange book and put it away. He'd have to buy it himself, and burn it to make sure no one else found the trick, of course. For a moment, uneasiness pricked at him. Yet he was sure Alfear hadn't been lying, and the story the creature had told made more sense than the older superstitions. Henry adjusted his mind to having a well-conditioned demon on tap and then began the harder job of bracing himself for Emma's incoherent but detailed account of the movie when she came back. Unfortunately, it was a more complicated plot than usual, and she went on and on, from the moment she entered the door. He tried to close his ears, but he'd never succeeded in that. He yawned, and she yawned back, but went on until the last final morsel was covered for the second or third time. "He was wonderful," she finally concluded. "Just wonderful. Only I wished you'd come with me. You'd have liked it. Henry, did you take the garbage out?" "Yes, dear," he answered. "Hours ago." He yawned elaborately again. She mumbled something about having to keep the kitchen clean because cleanliness was next to godliness, but her automatic yawn muffled the words. Then she glanced at the clock. "Heavens, it's almost one! And early to bed and early to rise..." Henry jerked his eyes away, just as he caught the first glimpse of Alfear popping into existence beside her. He heard the beginning of a shriek change to a horrible gargling and then become a dying moan. Something soft and heavy hit the floor with a dull thud. Henry turned around slowly. "Dead," Alfear said calmly, rubbing one of his fingers. "This business of getting just one finger through the planes into her head cuts off the circulation. There, that's better. Satisfied?" Henry dropped beside the corpse. She was dead, according to the mirror test, and there wasn't a mark on her. He stared at the puffy, relaxed features; he'd expected an expression of horror, but she seemed simply asleep. His initial feeling of pity and contrition vanished; after all, it had been quick and nearly painless. Now he was free! "Thanks, Alfear," lie said. "It's fine -- fine. Do I dismiss you now?" "No need this time. I'm free as soon as the job's done. Unless you'd like to talk awhile..." Henry shook his head quickly. He had to telephone a doctor. Then he could call Shirley -- her mother would be gone by now. "Not now. Maybe I'll summon you sometime for a smoke or something. But not now!" "Okay," Alfear said, and vanished. Surprisingly, seeing him disappear wasn't unpleasant, after all. He just wasn't there. Waiting for the doctor was the worst part of it. All the legends Henry knew ran through his mind. Alfear could have given her a stroke and then added some violent poison that would show up in an autopsy. He could be sitting wherever he was, chuckling because Henry hadn't restricted his wish enough to be safe. Or any of a hundred things could happen. There was the first witch, who had thought she had Apalon under control, only to be turned to dust. But the doctor took it calmly enough. "Stroke, all right," he decided. "I warned her last year that she was putting on too much weight and getting high blood pressure. Too bad, Mr. Aimsworth, but there was nothing you could do. I'll turn in a certificate. Want me to contact a mortician for you?" Henry nodded, trying to appear properly grief-stricken. "I -- I'd appreciate it." "Too late now," the doctor said. "But I'll be glad to send Mr. Glazier around in the morning." He pulled the sheet up over Emma's body, leaving it on the backroom couch to which they had carried it. "You'd better go to a hotel for the night. And I'll give you something that will make you sleep." "I'd rather not," Henry said quickly. "I mean, I'd feel better here. You know... "Certainly, certainly." The doctor nodded sympathetically, but as if it were an old story to him. He left the pills with instructions, said the proper things again, and finally went out. cross when she answered, but it grew alert as soon as he told her about Emma's stroke. He was almost beginning to believe the simple version of the story himself. "Poor Henry," she murmured. Her voice sharpened again. "It was a stroke? The doctor was sure?" "Positive," he assured her, cursing himself for having let her guess some of the thoughts that had been on his mind. "The doctor said she'd had hypertension and such before." She considered it a second, and then a faint laugh sounded. "Then I guess there's no use in crying over spilled milk, is there, Henry? If it had to happen, it just had to. And I mean, it's like fate, almost!" "It is fate!" he agreed happily. Then he dropped his voice. "And now I'm all alone here, baby lamb, and I had to call you up..." She caught on at once, as she always did. "You can't stay there now! It's so morbid. Henry, you come right over here!" Demons, Henry thought as he drove the car through the quiet residential streets toward her apartment, had their uses. They were a much maligned breed. Probably the people who had summoned them before had been ignorant, stupid people ; they'd messed up their chances and brought trouble on themselves by not finding out the facts and putting it all down to superstitious magic. The fellows were almost people -- maybe even a little superior to humans. If a man would just try to understand them, they could help him, and with no danger at all. "No strings attached," he said to himself, and then chuckled softly. It fitted perfectly; now there were no strings attached to him. Emma was at peace, and he was free. He'd have to wait a few months to marry Shirley legally, of course. But already, she was as good as his wife. And if he played up the shock angle just enough, this could be a wonderful evening again... Shirley was unusually lovely when she met him at the door. Her soft golden hair made a halo for her face -- a face that said she'd already anticipated his ideas, and had decided he was a man who needed sympathy and understanding for what had happened. There was even time for the idea that he was free to be brought up, tentatively at first, and then eventually as a matter of course. And the plans expanded as he considered them. There was no need to worry about things now. The quiet marriage became a trip around the world as he confessed to having money that no one knew about. They could close the shop. He could leave town almost at once, and she could follow later. Nobody would know, and they wouldn't have to wait to avoid any scandal. They could be married in two weeks! Henry was just realizing the values of a friendly demon. With proper handling, a lot of purely friendly summoning, and a reasonable attitude, there was no reason why Alf#ar couldn't provide him with every worldly comfort to share with Shirley. He caught her to him again. "My own little wife! That's what you are, lambkins! What's a mere piece of paper? I already think of you as my wife. I feel you're my wife. That's what counts, isn't it?" "That's all that counts," she agreed with a warmth that set fire to his blood. Then she gasped. "Henry, darling, it's getting light already! You'll have to get back. What will the neighbors say if they see you coming from here now?" He tore away reluctantly, swearing at the neighbors. But she was right, of course. He had to go back and take the sleeping medicine to be ready for the arrival of the mortician in the morning. "It's still early," he protested, automatically trying to squeeze out a few more minutes. "Nobody's up yet." "I'll heat up the coffee, and then you'll have to go," Shirley said firmly, heading for the kitchen. "Plenty of people get up early around here. And besides, you need some sleep. Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and -- " From the kitchen came the beginning of a shriek. It changed to a horrible gasp, and died away in a failing moan...There was the sound of a body hitting the floor. Alfear stood over Shirley's body, rubbing one finger tenderly. His ears twitched uncertainly as he studied Henry's horror-frozen face. "I told you," he said. "I warned you some of us get conditioned to a habit the first time. And you thought of her as your wife and she said... Abruptly, he vanished. Henry's screams were the only sound in the apartment. ing the script, Riders to the Stars terrifying gamble that runs the promises to be a movie any diedgamut of human experiences? in-the-wool science fiction lover What may happen before we will put down on his "must see" reach those stars that twinkle so list. We've just read the book -- invitingly? another excellent Ballantine reThe cast seems to be a cornlease -- and it is just what the petent one, including Herbert electrifying". Richard Carlson, and they've No moon vistas, monsterous sure got a walloping good yam Martians or Venusian aphrodites to work with, are running rampant in this Incidentally, Siodmak's Do nostory. Essentially, it is the tale of van's Brain has been made into three men who gamble their a moving picture too and anyone lives, with plausible and human who has read that classic science motivations, to help change the fiction novel can look forward to history of the world -- and peranother fine film treat, haps the universe. Science fiction So -- IF's Citation for this has already accepted space travel month goes to the man whose as a completely normal state of fine work in script writing and affairs in the future, but this is story telling has taken a new dithe story of the men who will do rection away from the "Frankenit first. What sort of men will stein" tradition -- Curt Siodmak. Do you really know if it is really you who decides whether you are happy, or hungry, or want something, or in love? Maybe you do, but read this thought-provoking article on thought control and be on guard! snaring By Fritz Leiber are taking it easy as you read this. You are lying down, sitting, or possibly straphanging. Outside of the possibility of unexpected atom bombs and smaller commotions, you feel quite safe. I'm sorry to tell you, but you aren't. The human mind can be snared quite as easily as the human body can be atomized. The modern witch-doctors have an astonishing armory of new weapons, which they they are probably trying out on you right now. Even the magazine in your hands (I humbly apologize to the editor) could be a threat. There's a rat at the University of California. He has a radio in his skull. Dr. Joseph Gengerelli inserted it there surgically. For the very best scientific purposes. Dr. Gengerelli is showing, among other things, that he can control a rat from a distance. From the midget radio a very tiny wire leads into the rat's brain through a very tiny hole drilled in its skull. When Dr. Gengerelli starts broadcasting, the rat gets the jitters and runs "erratically about". All because Dr. Gengerelli has pushed a button. The learned scientist and his button might be on the moon and it would still work, if he had a strong enough broadcasting set. If all the rats in the world were so equipped, they would all get the jitters. This type of experiment has been carried a lot further, working with monkeys. These primates have had not one, but dozens of tiny wires inserted in different parts of their brains, from a central radio receiver permanently set in the skull. The wires are insulated up to the point where they touch a selected bit of gray matter. Radio control allows any selected part of the monkey's brain to be stimulated electrically. Sometimes the result is a violent dislike of bananas. Sometimes the monkey finds himself with ten times as much appetite as usual. Sometimes he gets violently aggressive, and sometimes he fawns. It all depends on which button is pushed. Could anything like this be done in a practical way to human beings? Surely not. But according to the Signal Corps Engineering Laboratory at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, a wrist-watch size radio receiver has been perfected that hears up to # miles. It is made of five transistors, a pencil-tip battery, a tiny earphone like that of a hearing aid, and an antenna that fits inside a man's sleeve. Meanwhile General Electric has developed a radio transmitter which, including the microphone, is no bigger than a cigarette case. So far it has a range of only # feet, but we all know what technology can do to a "so far". Technologically-shrunken versions of such radio transmitters and receivers could be surgically inserted into the human body. Specifically, near the skull, ear and vocal chords, or connected to those by wires. The skin would be grown back over them again, just as it is over a plastic or metal hip joint. Such radios would report back to headquarters every word a man or woman said, they would even keep check on his halfwhispered, or subvocal thinking. They would send him orders through an implanted earphone. They might even, if the tiny holes in the skull were drilled and the wires inserted, control his emotions. Finally a midget bomb might be implanted in the flesh, set to explode at the proper radio signal. While it might be wasteful to outfit an army this way, considering how age-old methods of discipline achieve comparable results, such surgeried-in devices could be used to advantage on spies, soldiers on suicidal missions, suspected traitors and persons with top-secret information. But how would it really help headquarters to give a man a violent dislike for bananas, or punch a button to make him aggressive, or decide from his sub-vocal mutterings that he wasn't being aggressive enough and so blow him up at long distance? The answer is that these are things that could be done today. With our rapidly increasing knowledge of the human brain, control will become much subtler. For that matter, maybe it has already 'become much subtler. Maybe you are haunted, as I am, by the uneasy feeling that we people outside the barriers of military and governmental security simply don't know the tenth of it. Heck, at some moments I am afraid that I think certain thoughts simply because some propaganda bureau has already invaded the inmost recesses of my brain. Of course there are a lot more axlike methods than implanted radios of influencing the activities of the human brain -- methods which have been popular in hospitals and clinics for some twenty years. I am referring to those methods which destroy a part of the brain slowly by long series of electric shocks (or insulin or metrazol injections), or quickly by the surgeon's knife or probe. In lobotomy and its sister operations a part of the brain is destroyed and as a result the person so favored does not bother about things so much. For instance, if he is against the government, he gives up this idealistic pursuit and takes up chasing food or women. Which makes it easier for his keepers. It has been suggested, by the French scientist Christian Favre, that lobotomy may be one of the key weapons of dictators. Imagine that the dictator has captured an enemy of his regime who cannot be broken down by torture. A clever twist of the surgeon's knife inside his brain and he is turned into a vegetable, a creature who can be drilled into saying whatever the prosecuting attorney wants to hear. Would scars show that such surgery has been performed? The surgeon's probe, inserted between the eyeball and the muscles around it, can reach the brain and destroy the necessary part, leaving no outward trace. Electro-shock, on the other hand, probably does no damage to the brain except when treatments are repeated many times. But it has been used as a threat to get neurotic soldiers back into the fighting lines. Some psychiatrists believe that electro-shock is effective mostly because dread of it, much like the old snake-pits and whippings for lunatics, scares the patient back into a semblance of sanity. I feel a spontaneous revulsion at the idea of invading the human brain by knife or even electricity. For a long time investigation of the living human brain was taboo. The idea was that if it was bad to cut into the human body, it was much more indecent to cut into the seat of reason. Knowledge of the brain was gained during necessary and rare surgical operations, when a surface of his brain to be given a mild electrical stimulation in different places, the subject reporting what he felt. Now it is possible to study the brain without piercing the skull. One method is by recording the well-known brain waves, those mixed and faint electrical rhythms that can be picked up by moist electrical contacts on the head. But this is not thought-control. Brain waves cannot as yet be beamed back into the skull to control a man's activities. Yet recently it has been discovered that brain waves can (in a sense) be effectively turned back on the brain to control it, not in the form of electricity, but light. At the Burden Neurological Institute in Bristol, England, physiologist Grey Walter gives people what he calls flicker-fits. While a person's brain waves are being recorded, a bright light that flickers about ten times a second is shined into his eyes. Then the timing of the flashes is changed so that they are in exact rhythm with one of the chief brain waves. At this point the person begins to see things that are not there, and not only see but also feel and touch. He may experience an inexplicible disgust, or intense pleasure. Finally he begins to have convulsions like those of an epileptic. At this point Grey Walters switches off the light. But suppose he didn't. Gould shells strike down an army with artificial epilepsy? One thing that Grey Walter's subjects frequently see in their flicker-fits is a spiral, a light that whirls out from a center in tight but rapidly widening circles. This is a common scanning pattern -- a way of inspecting every part of an area, just as a boy might hunt for a lost baseball by circling out from a central point. TV does the same thing in getting or reproducing a picture, except that it works in straight lines, back and forth. Grey Walter believes that here we have evidence that the thinking part of the brain is scanning the seeing part of the brain, which is located in the back of the head, to see what pictures have been transmitted there from the retina of the eye. This is an example of the way the brain is being investigated these days. Here is another: physiologists have speculated about the sense of smell for a long time. They have tried to reduce it to something like the simple sweet-salt-bittersour of the sense of taste. All sorts of experts, including the suavest French wine-tasters and the most judicial British tea-samplers, have tried to describe just what they were smelling. But they did not reach conclusions. Now Raymond Hainer, an industrial scientist in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has tackled this problem from brain-side, rather than nose-side. He finds that there are # different types of odor-sensitive nerves leading from the nose to the brain. Depending on which nerves are stimulated and which are not, the brain can sense about der the experts couldn't find a vocabulary to describe smells accurately. These examples show the carefully detailed way the human brain is being examined these days. For several years scientists like Norbert Wiener of M. I. T. (see IF, January issue) have been hinting to us that the brain is a calculating machine. And just like slot-machines, calculating machines can be gimmicked to give whatever results and pay off on whatever percentages the mechanic who adjusts them chooses. Do you want your brain gimmicked? Neither do I. But we'll have to watch out for it in the future. For a long time the robot of fiction has been the machine built to imitate man. Now it is turning out that man himself is a robot, a vastly complex electro-chemical circuit that can nevertheless be gimmicked by a clever operator. Yet the gimmicking of the human brain is far from a modern wonder. It is something that was going on long before the first priest of Ammon talked through a tube whose outlet was the mouth of the statue of the god for whom he was soliciting. It started with the first witchdoctor to discover the cosmos-shaking truth that people don't think realistically, but in terms of desires and symbols. In other words, if you want to influence other people, you work through the subconscious. This obviously holds true today. For example, a firm manufacturing men's shirts and wanting to sell them, not to ordinary customers but to hard-headed retailers, decided on these rules: Don't talk about shirts, don't talk about prices; but show a pretty girl almost without one of the shirts you are trying to sell. Such seemingly obvious appeals to basic human urges are getting more subtle all the time, as trained psychologists and sociologists are lured into the selling game by far higher salaries than universities can pay. For instance, a Viennese psychiatrist has figured out for Chrysler that a man looks on a convertible as his mistress, but on a hardtopped sedan as his wife. So the psychiatrist advises car dealers to put a convertible in the front window of the store, with a lot of more businesslike cars behind it. Men will come in to smell anxiously around the convertible, but they'll buy the other model. Another psychoanalyst has been telling greeting card manufacturers just what shapes and forms to put on the pasteboard oblongs they sell. The shapes and forms, all very gayly colored and carefully generalized, turn out to be the basic symbols of sex. Of course, part of this is just good old horse sense and another part is merely psychologists trying to sell industry an interesting bill of goods. But there is a solid reminder of activities pointing to an ever more efficient gimmicking of the human brain. seems much too obvious to be effective, especially to the person who prides himself on being "adhardened." This may be true for the conscious mind, but hardly for the subconscious. We laugh indulgently at the childishness of an advertiser who tries to make us buy a soft drink because it is pictured on the same billboard as an impossibly attractive and innocent-looking girl. Meanwhile we drink the same soft drink because, we tell ourselves, it is really more refreshing. The migration of psychologists into industry has been paralleled by other manifestations of a large-scale attempt to gimmick the human brain : the growing resemblance between articles and advertising in magazines and newspapers ; the tendency to expect authorities -- or perhaps, ultimately, robot brains -- to settle all questions; careful censoring in advance of each item that goes into the mass media of communication; increasing distrust by authorities of the ability of ordinary people to weigh any general problem intelligently. Meanwhile, our old friend hypnotism is being made into a more potent weapon. For a long time many psychologists believed that a hypnotized person could not be made to perform an act contrary to his moral code. Yet recent experiments show that a hypnotized person will attempt a murderous attack on an innocent bystander -- if first ( Continued on page # ) Here is a love story of two young people who met under the magic of festival time. One was T rina, whose world was a gentle make-believe Earth. The other was Max, handsome spaceman, whose world was the infinite universe of space... Illustrated by Ed Emsh man at the weather tower had bringing tears to her eyes as she said, and certainly it felt like spring, rode homeward toward the eastern with the cool breeze blowing lightly horizon -- the horizon that looked about her and a faint new clover so far away but wasn't really, smell borne in from the east. Spring "Trina!" -- that meant they would make the His voice was very close. And it days longer now, and the nights was familiar, though for a moment shorter, and they would warm the she couldn't imagine who it might whole world until it was summer be. again. "Where are you?" She had reined Trina laughed aloud at the the horse in abruptly and now thought of summer, with its picnics looked around her, in all directions, and languid swims in the refilled toward the north and south and lakes, with its music and the heavy east and west, toward the farm scent of flowers and the visitors in houses of the neighboring village, from space for the festival. She toward the light tower and the sun laughed, and urged her horse faster, tower. She saw no one. No one else out of its ambling walk into a trot, rode this early in the day in the pasa canter, until the wind streamed ture part of the world. "I'm up here, Trina ." She looked up then and saw him, hovering some thirty feet off the ground in the ridiculous windmilllike craft he and his people used when they visited the world. "Oh, hello, Max." No wonder she had known the voice. Max Cramer, down from space, down to the world, to see her. She knew, even before he dropped his craft onto the grass beside her, that he had come to see her. He couldn't have been on the world for more than the hour she'd been riding. "You're visiting us early this year, Max. It's not festival time for three months yet." "I know." He cut the power to the windmill blades, and they slowed, becoming sharply visible. The horse snorted and backed away. Max smiled. "This world is very -- attractive." His eyes caught hers, held them. She smiled back, wishing for the hundredth time since last summer's festival that he were one of her people, or at least a worldling, and not a man with the too white skin of space. "It may be attractive," she said. "But you always leave it soon enough." He nodded. "It's too confining. It's all right, for a little while, but then..." "How can you say that?" She shook her head sadly. Already they were arguing the same old unresolvable argument, and they had scarcely greeted each other. After all his months in space they met with the same words as they had parted. She looked past him, up and out, toward the horizon that seemed so many miles away, toward the morning sun that seemed to hang far, far off in the vaulted blue dome of the sky. "How can you even think it? About this?" His lips tightened. "About this " he repeated. "A horizon you could ride to in five minutes. A world you could ride around in two hours. A sun -- you really call it a sun -- that you could almost reach up and pluck out of that sky of yours." He laughed. "Illusions. World of illusions." "Well, what do you have? A ship -- a tiny ship you can't get out of, with walls you can see, all around you." "Yes, Trina, with walls we can see." He was still smiling, watching her, and she knew that he desired her. And she desired him. But not the stars. "You have nothing like this," she said, knowing it wouldn't do any good. She looked past him at the light tower, one of the many that formed the protective screen about her world, that made it seem great and convex, a huge flattened sphere with the sun high above, and not the swift curving steel ball that it actually was. This was her world. It was like Earth, like the old Earth of the legends of the time before the radiation wars. And even though her mind might know the truth about the screens that refracted light and the atomic pile that was her sun, her heart knew a more human truth. This was a world. As it had been in the beginning. As it must be till the end -- or until they found a new Earth, somewhere, sometime... Max sighed. "Yes, you have your world, Trina. And it's a good one -- the best of its kind I've ever visited." "Why don't you stay here then?" A spaceman, she thought. With all the dozens of men in my world, why did it have to be a spaceman? With all the visitors from New France and New Chile and New Australia last festival, why did it have to be him? "I have the stars, Trina." "We do too!" Last festival, and the warm June night, heavy, druggedly heavy with honeysuckle and magnolia, and the hidden music Cramer, tall and strong boned and alien, holding her in his arms, dancing her away from her people, out onto the terrace above the little stream, beneath the full festival moon and the summer stars, the safe, sane, well ordered constellations that their ancestors had looked upon from Earth. "My stars are real, Trina." She shook her head, unable to argue with him. World-woman and space-man, and always different, with nothing in common between them, really, except a brief forgetfulness at festival time. "Come with me, Trina." "No." She gathered up the reins and chucked at the horse and turned, slowly, for the village. "You wouldn't come -- for me?" "You wouldn't stay, would you?" She heard the windmill blades whir again, and a rustling of wind, and then he was beside her, skimming slowly along, barely off the ground, making her horse snort nervously away. "Trina, I shouldn't tell you this, not until we've met with your councilmen. But I -- I've got to." He wasn't smiling now. There was a wild look about his face. She didn't like it. "Captain Bernard's with the council now, giving them the news. But I wanted to see you first, to be the one who told you." He broke off, shook his head. "Yet when I found you I couldn't say anything. I guess I was afraid of what you'd answer..." "What are you talking about?" She didn't want to look at him. It embarrassed her somehow, seeing him so eager. "What do you want to tell me?" "About our last trip, Trina. We've found a world!" She stared at him blankly, and his hand made a cutting gesture of impatience. "Oh, not a world like this one! A planet, Trina. And it's Earth type!" She wheeled the horse about and stared at him. For a moment she felt excitement rise inside of her too, and then she remembered the generations of searching, and the false alarms, and the dozens of barren, unfit planets that the spacemen colonized, planets like groundbound ships. "Oh, Trina," Max cried, "This isn't like the others. It's a new Earth. And there are already people there. From not long after the Exodus..." "A new Earth?" she said. "I don't believe it." The council wouldn't either, she thought. Not after all the other new Earths, freezing cold or methane atmosphered or at best completely waterless. This would be like the others. A spaceman's dream. "You've got to believe me, Trina," Max said. "And you've got to help make the others believe. Don't you see? You wouldn't live in space. I wouldn't live here -- on this. But there, on a real planet, on a real Earth... Then suddenly she felt his excitement and it was a part of her, until against all reason she wanted to believe in his mad dream of a world. She laughed aloud as she caught up the reins and raced her horse homeward, toward the long vista of the horizon and the capital village beyond it, ten minutes gallop away. gether into the council hall and saw the two groups, the roomful of worldmen and the half dozen spacemen, apart from each other, arguing. The spacemen's eyes were angry. "A world," Captain Bernard said bitterly, "there for your taking, and you don't even want to look at it." "How do we know what kind of world it is?" Councilman Elias leaned forward on the divan. His voice was gentle, almost pitying. "You brought no samples. No vegetation, no minerals... "Not even air samples," Aaron Gomez said softly. "Why?" Bernard sighed. "We didn't want to wait," he said. "We wanted to get back here to tell you." "It may be a. paradise world to you " Elias said. "But to us... Max Cramer tightened his grip on Trina's hand. "The fools," he said. "Talking and talking, and all the time this world drifts farther and farther away." "It takes so much power to change course," Trina said. "And besides, you feel it. It makes you heavy." She remembered the stories her father used to tell, about his own youth, when he and Curt Elias had turned the world to go to a planet the spaceman found. A planet with people -- people who lived under glass domes, or deep below the formaldehyde poisoned surface. "You could be there in two weeks, easily, even at your world's speed," Captain Bernard said. "And then we'd have to go out," Elias said. "Into space." The worldmen nodded. The women looked at each other and nodded too. One of the spacemen swore, graphically, and there was an embarrassed silence as Trina's people pretended not to have heard. "Oh, let's get out of here." The spaceman who had sworn swore again, just as descriptively, and then grinned at the councilmen and their aloof, blank faces. "They don't want our planet. All right. Maybe New Chile..." "Wait!" Trina said it without thinking, without intending to. She stood speechless when the others turned to face her. All the others. Her people and Max's. Curt Elias, leaning forward again, smiling at her. "Yes, Trina?" the councilman said. "Why don't we at least look at it? Maybe it is -- what they say." Expression came back to their faces then. They nodded at each other and looked from her to Max Cramer and back agahTat her, and they smiled. Festival time, their eyes said. Summer evenings, summer foolishness. And festival time long behind them, but soon to come again. "Your father went to space," Elias said. "We saw one of those worlds the spacemen talk of." "I know." "He didn't like it." "I know that too," she said, remembering his bitter words and the nightmare times when her mother had had so much trouble comforting him, and the winter evenings when he didn't want even to go outside and see the familiar, Earth encircling stars. He was dead now. Her mother was dead now. They were not here, to disapprove, to join with Elias and the others. They would have hated for her to go out there. She faltered, the excitement Max had aroused in her dying away, and then she thought of their argument, as old as their desire. She knew that if she wanted him it would have to be away from the worlds. "At least we could look," she said. "And the spacemen could bring up samples. And maybe even some of the people for us to talk to." Elias nodded. "It would be interesting," he said slowly, "to talk to some new people. It's been so long." "And we wouldn't even have to land," Aaron Gomez said, "if it didn't look right." The people turned to each other again and smiled happily. She knew that they were thinking of the men and women they would see, and all the new things to talk about. "We might even invite some of them up for the festival," Elias said slowly. "Providing they're -- courteous." He frowned at the young spaceman who had done the swearing, and then he looked back at Captain Bernard. "And providing, of course, that we're not too far away by then." "I don't think you will be," Bernard said. "I think you'll stay." "I think so too," Max Cramer said, moving closer to Trina. "I hope so." Elias stood up slowly and signalled that the council was dismissed. The other people stood up also and moved toward the doors. "We'd better see about changing the world's course," Aaron Gomez said. No one objected. It was going to be done. Trina looked up at Max Cramer and knew that she loved him. And wondered why she was afraid. the world, New America, came into the gravitational influence of the planet's solar system. The automatic deflectors swung into functioning position, ready to change course, slowly and imperceptibly, but enough to take the world around the system and out into the freedom of space where it could wander on its random course. But this time men shunted aside the automatic controls. Men guided their homeland in, slowly now, toward the second planet from the sun, the one that the spacemen had said was so like Earth. "We'll see it tomorrow," Trina said. "They'll shut off part of the light tower system then." "Why don't they now?" Max Cramer asked her. It was just past sunset, and the stars of a dozen generations ago were just beginning to wink into view. He saw Venus, low on the horizon, and his lips tightened, and then he looked up to where he knew the new sun must be. There was only the crescent of Earth's moon. "Now?" Trina said. "Why should they turn the screens off now? We're still so far away. We wouldn't see anything." "You'd see the sun," Max said. "It's quite bright, even from here. And from close up, from where the planet is, it looks just about like Earth's." Trina nodded. "That's good," she said, looking over at the rose tints of the afterglow. "It wouldn't seem right if it didn't." A cow lowed in the distance, and nearer, the laughing voices of children rode the evening breeze. Somewhere a dog barked. Somewhere else a woman called her family home to supper. Old sounds. Older, literally, than this world. "What are the people like, out there?" He looked at her face, eager and worried at the same time, and he smiled. "You'll like them, Trina," he said. "They're like -- well, they're more like this than anything else." He gestured, vaguely, at the farmhouse lights ahead of them, at the slow walking figures of the young couples out enjoying the warm spring evening, at the old farmer leading his plow horse home along the path. "They live in villages, not too different from yours. And in cities. And on farms." "And yet, you like it there, don't you?" she said. He nodded. "Yes, I like it there." "But you don't like it here. Why?" "If you don't understand by now, Trina, I can't explain." They walked on. Night came swiftly, crowding the rose and purple tints out of the western sky, closing in dark and cool and sweet smelling about them. Ahead, a footbridge loomed up out of the shadows. There was the sound of running water, and, on the bank not far from the bridge, the low murmuring of a couple of late lingering fishermen. "The people live out in the open, like this?" Trina said. "Yes." "Not underground?" Not under a dome?" "I've told you before that it's like Earth, Trina. About the same size, even." "This is about the same size, too." "Not really. It only looks that way." The fishermen glanced up as they passed, and then bent down over their lines again. Lucas Crossman, from Trina's town, and Jake Krakorian from the southern hemisphere, up to visit his sister Lucienne, who had just had twins... Trina said hello to them as she passed, and found out that the twins looked just like their mother, except for Grandfather Mueller's eyes, and then she turned back to Max. "Do people live all over the planet?" "On most of it. The land sections, that is. Of course, up by the poles it's too cold." "But how do they know each other?" He stopped walking and stared at her, not understanding for a minute. Girl's laughter came from the bushes, and the soft urging voice of one of the village boys. Max looked back at the fishermen and then down at Trina and shook his head. "They don't all know each other," he said. "They couldn't." She thought of New Chile, where her cousin Isobelle was married last year, and New India, which would follow them soon to the planet, because Captain Bernard had been able to contact them by radio. She thought of her people, her friends, and then she remembered the spacemen's far flung ships and the homes they burrowed deep in the rock of inhospitable worlds. She knew that he would never understand why she pitied the people of this system. "I suppose we'll see them soon," she said. "You're going to bring some of them back up in your ship tomorrow, aren't you?" He stood quietly, looking down at her. His face was shadowed in the gathering night and his whole body was in shadow, tall and somehow alien seeming there before her. "Why wait for them to come here, Trina?" he said. "Come down with us, in the ship, tomorrow. Come down and see for yourself what it's like." She trembled. "No," she said. And she thought of the ship, out away from the sky, not down on the planet yet but hanging above it, with no atmosphere to break the blackness, to soften the glare of the planet's sun, to shut out the emptiness. "You'd hardly know you weren't here, Trina. The air smells the same. And the weight's almost the same too. Maybe a little lighter." She nodded. "I know. If we land the world, I'll go out there. But not in the ship." "All right." He sighed and let go his grip on her shoulders and turned to start walking back the way they had come, toward the town. She thought suddenly of what he had just said, that she would hardly be able to tell the difference. "It can't be so much like this," she said. "Or you couldn't like it. No matter what you say." "Trina." His voice was harsh. "You've never been out in space, so you couldn't understand. You just don't know what your world is like, from outside, when you're coming in." But she could picture it. A tiny planetoid, shining perhaps behind its own screens, a small, drifting, lonely sphere of rock. She trembled again. "I don't want to know," she said. Somewhere in the meadows beyond the road there was laughter, a boy and a girl laughing together, happy in the night. Trina's fingers tightened on Max's hand and she pulled him around to face her and then clung to him, trembling, feeling the nearness of him as she held up her face to be kissed. He held her to him. And slowly, the outside world of space faded, and her world seemed big and solid and sure, and in his arms it was almost like festival time again. world slowed again and changed course, going into an orbit around the planet, becoming a third moon, nearer to the surface than the others. The people, all. of those who had followed their normal day-to-day life even after New America came into the system, abandoned it at last. They crowded near the television towers, waiting for the signal which would open up some of the sky and show them the planet they circled, a great green disk, twice the apparent diameter of the legendary Moon of Earth. Max stood beside Trina in the crowd that pressed close about his ship. He wore his spaceman's suit, and the helmet was in his hand. Soon he too would be aboard with the others, going down to the planet. "You're sure you won't come, Trina? We'll be down in a couple of hours." "I'll wait until we land there. If we do." Curt Elias came toward them through the crowd. When he saw Trina he smiled and walked faster, almost briskly. It was strange to see him move like a young and active man. "If I were younger," he said, "I'd go down there." He smiled again and pointed up at the zenith, where the blue was beginning to waver and fade as the sky screens slipped away. "This brings back memories." "You didn't like that other world," Trina said. "Not any more than Father did." "The air was bad there," Elias said. The signal buzzer sounded again. The center screens came down. Above them, outlined by the fuzzy halo of the still remaining sky, the black of space stood forth, and the stars, and the great disk of the planet, with its seas and continents and cloud masses and the shadow of night creeping across it from the east. "You see, Trina?" Max said softly. The voices of the people rose, some alive with interest and others anxious, fighting back the planet and the unfamiliar, too bright stars. Trina clutched Max Cramer's hand, feeling again the eagerness of that first day, when he had come to tell her of this world. "You're right," she whispered. "It is like Earth." It was so much like the pictures, though of course the continents were different, and the seas, and instead of one moon there were two. Earth. A new Earth, there above them in the sky. Elias let out his breath slowly. "Yes," he said. "It is. It's not a bit like that world we visited. Not a bit." "When you're down there it's even more like Earth," Max said. "And all the way down you could watch it grow larger. It wouldn't be at all like open space." At the poles of the planet snow gleamed, and cloud masses drifted across the equator. And the people looked, and pointed, their voices growing loud with eagerness. "Why don't we land the world now?" Trina cried. "Why wait for the ship to bring people up here?" "Landing the world would take a lot of power," Elias said. "It would be foolish to do it unless we planned on staying for quite a while." He sighed. "Though I would like to go down there. I'd like to see a really Earth type planet." He looked at Max, and Max smiled. "Well, why not?" he said. Elias smiled too. "After all, I've been in space once. I'll go again." He turned and pushed his way through the people. Trina watched him go. Somehow he seemed a symbol to her. Old and stable, he had been head of the council since she was a child. And he had gone into space with her father... "Please come, Trina," Max said. "There's nothing to be afraid of." With both Max and Elias along, certainly it couldn't be too bad. Max was right. There was nothing, really, to be afraid of. She smiled up at him. "All right," she said. "I'll go." And then she was walking with Max Cramer toward the ship and trying not to remember her father crying in his sleep. out as she felt the heaviness wrench her back against the cushions. Max reached over to her. She felt the needle go into her arm again, and then sank back into the half sleep that he had promised would last until they were ready to land. When she awoke the planet was a disk no longer, but a great curving mass beneath the ship, with the mountains and valleys and towns of its people plainly visible. But the planet's sky still lay below, and around them, in every direction except down, space stretched out, blacker than any night on the world. The world. Trina moaned and closed her eyes, glad she hadn't seen it, somewhere tiny and insignificant behind them. Max heard her moan and reached toward her. She slept again, and woke only when they were down and he was tugging the straps loose from around her. She sat up, still numbed by the drug, still half asleep and unreal feeling, and looked out about her at the planet's surface. They were in a field of some sort of grain. Beyond the scorched land where they had come down the tall cereal grasses rippled in the soft wind, a great undulating sea of green, reaching out toward the far off hills and the horizon. Cloud shadows drifted across the fields, and the shadow of the ship reached out to meet them. Trina rubbed her eyes in wonder. "It is like the world' she said. "Just like it." For a moment she was sure that they were back on the world again, in some momentarily unrecognized pasture, or perhaps on one of the sister worlds. Then, looking along the row of hills to where they dropped away into an extension of the plain, she saw that the horizon was a little too far, and that the light shimmered differently, somehow, than on her home. But it was such a little difference. "Come on outside," Max Cramer said. "You'll be all right now." She stood up and followed him. Elias was already at the airlock, moving unsteadily and a little blankly, also still partly under the influence of the narcotic. The lock opened. Captain Bernard stepped out and went down the ladder to the ground. The others followed him. Within a few minutes the ship stood empty. of the planet and felt the warmth on her face and smelled the scent of grass and the elusive fragrance of alien flowers. She heard the song of some strange, infinitely sweet throated bird. "It's -- it's Earth," she whispered. Voices, eager, calling voices, sang out in the distance. Then, little cars rolled toward them through the field, mowing down the grass, cutting themselves a path to the ship. People, men and women and children, were calling greetings. "This is where we landed before," Max said. "We told them we'd be back." They were sunbronzed, country people, and except for their strange clothing they might have been from any of the worlds. Even their language was the same, though accented differently, with some of the old, unused words, like those in the legends. "You've brought your people?" the tall man who stood in the forefront said to Captain Bernard. "They're up there." Bernard pointed up at the sky, and the people looked up. Trina looked up too. One of the planet's moons was almost full overhead. But the world was invisible, shut off by the sky and the clouds and the light of the earthlike sun. "They'd like some of you to come visit their world," Bernard said. "If The tall man nodded. "Everyone will want to go," he said. "Very few ships ever land here. Until you came, it had been years." "You'd go out in space?" Trina said incredulously. Again the man nodded. "I was a spaceman once," he said. "All of us MacGregors were." Then he sighed. "Sometimes even now I want to go out again. But there've been no ships here, not for years." Trina looked past him, at the women and the children, at the lush fields and the little houses far in the distance. "You'd leave this?" MacGregor shook his head. "No, of course not. Not to live in space permanently. I'd always come back." "It's a fine world to come back to," Max said, and he and the tall man smiled at each other, as if they shared something that Trina couldn't possibly understand. "We might as well go into town," MacGregor said. They walked over to the cars. MacGregor stopped beside one of them, his hand on the door button. "Here, let me drive." The girl stepped forward out of the crowd as she spoke. She was tall, almost as tall as MacGregor, and she had the same high cheekbones and the same laughter lines about her eyes. "Not this time, Saari," MacGregor said. "This time you can entertain our guests." He turned to Max and Trina and smiled. "My daughter." His face was proud. They climbed in, Trina wedging herself into the middle of the back seat between Max and the planet girl. The car throbbed into motion, then picked up speed, jolting a bit on the rough country road. The ground rushed past and the fields rushed past and Trina leaned against Max and shut her eyes against the dizzying speed. Here, close to the ground, so close that they could feel every unevenness of its surface, it was far worse than in the windmill like craft the spacemen used on the worlds. "Don't you have cars?" Saari asked "No," Trina said. "We don't need them." A car like this would rush all the way around the world in half an hour. In a car like this one even the horizons wouldn't look right, rushing to meet them. Here, though the horizons stayed the same, unmoving while the fence posts and the farmhouses and the people flashed past. "What do you use for transportation then?" "We walk," Trina said, opening her eyes to look at the girl and then closing them again. "Or we ride horses." "Oh." A few minutes later the car slowed, and Trina opened her eyes again. "We're coming into town," Saari said. They had climbed up over the brow of a small hill and were now dropping down. At the bottom of the hill the houses clumped together, sparsely at first, then more and more of them, so that the whole valley was filled with buildings, and more buildings hugged the far slopes. "There are so many of them," Trina whispered. "Oh, no, Trina. This is just a small town." "But the people -- all those people..." They crowded the streets, watching the cars come in, looking with open curiosity at their alien visitors. Faces, a thousand faces, all different and yet somehow all alike, blended together into a great anonymous mass. "There aren't half that many people on the whole world," Trina said. Saari smiled. "Just wait till you see the city." Trina shook her head and looked up at Max. He was smiling out at the town, nodding to some men he apparently knew, with nothing but eagerness in his face. He seemed a stranger. She looked around for Curt Elias, but he was in one of the other cars cut off from them by the crowd. She couldn't see him at all. "Don't you like it?" Saari said. "I liked it better where we landed." Max turned and glanced down at her briefly, but his hand found hers and held it, tightly, until her own relaxed. "If you want to, Trina, we can live out there, in those fields." For a moment she forgot the crowd and the endless faces as she looked up at him. "Do you mean that, Max? We could really live out there?" Where it was quiet, and the sun was the same, and the birds sang sweetly just before harvest time, where she would have room to ride and plenty of pasture for her favorite horse. Where she would have Max, there with her, not out somewhere beyond the stars. "Certainly we could live there," he said. "That's what I've been saying all along." "You could settle down here?" He laughed. "Oh, I suppose I'd be out in space a good deal of the time," he said. "The ships will come here now, you know. But I'll always come home, Trina. To this world. To you." And suddenly it didn't matter that the girl beside her chuckled, nor that there were too many people crowding around them, all talking at once in their strangely accented voices. All that mattered was Max, and this world, which was real after all. and a life that seemed like an endless festival time before her. quickly, with the sun dropping in an unnatural plunge toward the horizon. Shadows crept out from the houses of the town, reached across the narrow street and blended with the walls of the houses opposite. The birds sang louder in the twilight, the notes of their song drifting in from the nearby fields. And there was another sound, that of the wind, not loud now but rising, swirling fingers of dust in the street. Trina sat in front of the town cafe with the planet girl, Saari. Max Cramer was only a few feet away, but he paid no attention to her, and little to Elias. He was too busy telling the planet people about space. "Your man?" Saari asked. "Yes," Trina said. "I guess so." "You're lucky." Saari looked over at Max and sighed, and then she turned back to Trina. "My father was a spaceman. He used to take my mother up, when they were first married, when the ships were still running." She sighed. "I remember the ships, a little. But it was such a long time ago." "I can't understand you people." Trina shook her head. "Leaving all of this, just to go out in space." The room was crowded, oppressively crowded. Outside, too many people walked the shadowed streets. Too many voices babbled together. The people of this planet must be a little mad, Trina thought, to live cooped together as the spacemen lived, with all their world around them. Saari sat watching her, and nodded. "You're different, aren't you? From us, and from them too." She looked over at Max and Bernard and the others, and then she looked at Curt Elias, who sat clenching and unclenching his hands, saying nothing. "Yes, we're different," Trina said. Klax Cramer's voice broke incisively into the silence that lay between them then. "I don't see why," he said, "we didn't all know about this world. Especially if more than one ship came here." Saari's father laughed softly. "It's not so strange. The ships all belonged to one clan. The MacGregors. And eventually all of them either were lost in space somewhere or else grew tired of roaming around and settled down. Here." He smiled again, and his high cheekboned face leaned forward into the light. "Like me... Night. Cloudless, black, but hazed over with atmosphere and thus familiar, not like the night of space. The two small moons, the stars in unfamiliar places, and somewhere, a star that was her world. And Trina sat and listened to the planet men talk, and to the spacemen among them who could no longer be distinguished from the native born. Outside, in the narrow street, wind murmured, skudding papers and brush before it, vague shadows against the light houses. Wind, rising and moaning, the sound coming in over the voices and the music from the cafe singers. It was a stronger wind than ever blew on the world, even during the winter, when the people had to stay inside and wish that Earth tradition might be broken and good weather be had the year around. "We'd better get back to the ship," Elias said. They stopped talking and looked at him, and he looked down at his hands, embarrassed. "They'll be worried about us at home." "No, they won't," Max said. Then he saw the thin, blue-veined hands trembling and the quiver not quite controlled in the wrinkled neck. "Though perhaps we should start back... Trina let out her breath in relief. To be back in the ship, she thought, with the needle and its forgetfulness, away from the noise and the crowd and the nervousness brought on by the rising wind. It would be better, of course, when they had their place in the country. There it would be warm and homelike and quiet, with the farm animals near by, and the weather shut out, boarded out and forgotten, the way it was in winter on the world. "You're coming with us?" Captain Bernard was saying. "Yes, we're coming." Half a dozen of the men stood up and began pulling on their long, awkward coats. "It'll be good to get back in space again," MacGregor said. "For a while." He smiled. "But I'm too old for a spaceman's life now." "And I'm too old even for this," Elias said apologetically. "If we'd found this planet the other time... He sighed and shook his head and looked out the window at the shadows that were people, bent forward, walking into the wind. He sighed again. "I don't know. I just don't know." Saari got up and pulled on her wrap too. Then she walked over to one of the other women, spoke to her a minute, and came back carrying a quilted, rough fabricked coat. "Here, Trina, you'd better put this on. It'll be cold out." "Are you going with us?" "Sure. Why not? Dad's talked enough about space. I might as well see what it's like for myself." Trina shook her head. But before she could speak, someone opened the door and the cold breeze came in, hitting her in the face "Come on," Saari said. "It'll be warm in the car." Somehow she was outside, following the others. The wind whipped her hair, stung her eyes, tore at her legs. The coat kept it from her body, but she couldn't protect her face, nor shut out the low moaning wail of it through the trees and the housetops. She groped her way into the car. The door slammed shut, and the wind retreated, a little. "Is it -- is it often like that?" Saari MacGregor looked at her. Max Cramer turned and looked at her, and so did the others in the car. For a long moment no one said anything. And then Saari said, "Why, this is summer , Trina." "Summer?" She thought of the cereal grasses, rippling in the warm day. They'd be whipping in the wind now, of course. The wind that was so much stronger than any the world's machines ever made. "You ought to be here in winter," Saari was saying. "It really blows then. And there are the rainstorms, and snow..." "Snow?" Trina said blankly. "Certainly. A couple of feet of it, usually." Saari stopped talking and looked at Trina, and surprise crept even farther into her face. "You mean you don't have snow on your world?" "Why, yes, we have snow. We have everything Earth had." But snow two feet deep... Trina shivered, thinking of winter on the world, and the soft dusting of white on winter mornings, the beautiful powdery flakes cool in the sunlight. "They have about a sixteenth of an inch of it," Max said. "And even that's more than some of the worlds have. It hardly ever even rains in New California." Saari turned away finally, and the others did too. The car started, the sound of its motors shutting out the wind a little, and then they were moving. Yet it was even more frightening, rushing over the roads in the darkness, with the houses flashing past and the trees thrashing in the wind and the people briefly seen and then left behind in the night. The ship was ahead. The ship. Now even it seemed a safe, familiar place. "This isn't like Earth after all," Trina said bitterly. "And it seemed so beautiful at first." Then she saw that Saari MacGregor was looking at her again, but this time more in pity than in surprise. "Not like Earth, Trina? You're wrong. We have a better climate than Earth's. We never have blizzards, nor hurricanes, and it's never too cold nor too hot, really." "How can you say that?" Trina cried. "We've kept our world like Earth. Oh, maybe we've shortened winter a little, but still..." Saari's voice was sad and gentle, as if she were explaining something to a bewildered child. "My mother's ancestors came here only a few years out from Earth," she said. "And do you know what they called this planet? A paradise. A garden world." "That's why they named it Eden," Max Cramer said. Then they were at the ship, out of the car, running to the airlock, with the grass lashing at their legs and the wind lashing at their faces and the cold night air aflame suddenly in their lungs. And Trina couldn't protest any longer, not with the world mad about her, not with Saari's words ringing in her ears like the wind. She saw them carry Curt Elias in, and then Max was helping her aboard, and a moment later, finally, the airlock doors slipped shut and it was quiet. She held out her arm for the needle. was morning. Morning on the world. They had carried her to one of the divans in the council hall, one near a window so that she could see the familiar fields of her homeland as soon as she awoke. She rubbed her eyes and straightened and looked up at the others. At Elias, still resting on another divan. At Captain Bernard. At Saari and her father, and another man from the planet. At Max. He looked at her, and then sighed and turned away, shaking his head. "Are we -- are we going back there?" Trina asked. "No," Elias said. "The people are against it." There was silence for a moment, and then Elias went on. "I'm against it. I suppose that even if I'd been young I wouldn't have wanted to stay." His eyes met Trina's, and there was pity in them. "No," Max said. "You wouldn't have wanted to." "And yet," Elias said, "I went down there. Trina went down there. Her father and I both went out into space." He sighed. "The others wouldn't even do that." "You're not quite as bad, that's all," Max said bluntly. "But I don't understand any of you. None of us ever has understood you. None of us ever will." Trina looked across at him. Her fingers knew every line of his face, but now he was withdrawn, a stranger. "You're going back there, aren't you?" she said. And when he nodded, she sighed. "We'll never understand you either, I guess." She remembered Saari's question of the night before, "Is he your man?" and she realized that her answer had not been the truth. She knew now that he had never been hers, not really, nor she his, that the woman who would be his would be like Saari, eager and unafraid and laughing in the wind, or looking out the ports at friendly stars. Elias leaned forward on the divan and gestured toward the master weather panel for their part of the village, the indicators that told what it was like today and what it would be like tomorrow all over the world. "I think I understand," he said. "I think I know what we did to our environment, through the generations. But it doesn't do much good, just knowing something." "You'll never change," Max said. "No, I don't think we will." Captain Bernard got up, and MacGregor got up too. They looked at Max. Slowly he turned his head and smiled at Trina, and then he tco stood up. "Want to come outside and talk, Trina?" But there was nothing to say. Nothing she could do except break down and cry in his arms and beg him not to leave her, beg him to spend the rest of his life on a world she could never leave again. "No," she said. "I guess not." And then, the memories rushed back, and the music, and the little lane down by the stream where the magnolias spread their web of fragrance. It's -- it's almost festival time, Max. Will you be here for it?" "I don't know, Trina." It meant no; she knew that. The weeks slipped by, until it was summer on the world, until the festival music sang through the villages and the festival flowers bloomed and the festival lovers slipped off from the dances to walk among them. There was a breeze, just enough to carry the mingled fragrances and the mingled songs, just enough to touch the throat and ruffle the hair and lie lightly between the lips of lovers. Trina danced with Aaron Gomez, and remembered. And the wind seemed too soft somehow, almost lifeless, with the air too sweet and cloying. She wondered what a festival on the planet would be like. Max, with Saari MacGregor, perhaps, laughing in the wind, running in the chill of evening along some riverbank. I could have gone with him, she thought. I could have gone... But then the music swirled faster about them, the pulse of it pounding in her ears, and Aaron swept her closer as they danced, spinning among the people and the laughter, out toward the terrace, toward the trees with leaves unstirring in the evening air. All was color and sound and scent, all blended, hypnotically perfect, something infinitely precious that she could never, never leave. For it was summer on the world, and festival time again. wrote that controversial short novel, A Case of Conscience , now tackles another fascinating theme in a new story about a civilization of tree-top back to Earth. You might find it just on the other side of the fence -- where the grass is always greener. By Richard Stockham Illustrated by Ed Emsh sea of atmosphere like a greats silver fish. Inside the ship, a man and woman stood looking down at the expanse of land that curved away to a growing horizon. They saw the yellow ground cracked like a dried skin; and the polished stone of the mountains and the seas that were shrunken away in the dust. And they saw how the city circled the sea, as a circle of men surround a water hole in a desert under a blazing sun. The ship's radio cried out. "You've made it! Thank God! You've made it!" Another voice, shaking, said, "President -- Davis is -- overwhelmed. He can't go on. On his behalf and on behalf of all the people -- with our hope that was almost dead, we greet you." A pause. "Please come in!" The voice was silent. The air screamed against the hull of the ship. "I can't tell them," said the man. "Please come in!" said the radio. "Do you hear me?" The woman looked up at the man. "You've got to Michael!" "Two thousand years. From one end of the galaxy to the other. Not one grain of dust we can live on. Just Earth. And it's burned to a cinder." A note of hysteria stabbed into the radio voice. "Are you all right? Stand by! We're sending a rescue ship." "They've got a right to know what we've found," said the woman. "They sent us out. They've waited so long -- ." He stared into space. "It's hopeless. If we'd found another planet they could live on, they'd do the same as they've done here." He touched the tiny golden locket that hung around his neck. "Right now, I could press this and scratch myself and the whole farce would be over." "No. A thousand of us died. You've got to think of them." "We'll go back out into space," he said. "It's clean out there. I'm tired. Two thousand years of reincarnation." She spoke softly. "We've been together for a long time. I've loved you. I've asked very little. But I need to stay on Earth. Please, Michael." He looked at her for a moment. Then he flipped a switch. "Milky Way to Earth. Never mind the rescue ship. We're all right. We're coming in." tled to Earth that was like a plain after flood waters have drained away. The man and woman came out into .the blazing sunlight. A shout, like the crashing of a thousand surfs, rose and broke over them. The man and woman descended the gang-plank toward the officials gathered on the platform. They glanced around at the massed field of white faces beneath them; saw those same faces that had been turned toward them two thousand years past; remembered the cheers and the cries that had crashed around them then, as they and the thousand had stood before the towering spires of the ships, before the takeoff. And, as then, there were no chilthrong. Only the same clutching hands and voices and arms, asking for an answer, a salvation, a happy end. Now the officials gathered around the man and the woman, and spoke to them in voices of reverence. A microphone was thrust into Michael's hand with the whispered admonition to tell the people of the great new life waiting for them, open and green and moist, on a virgin planet. The cries of the people were slipping away and a stillness growing like an ocean calm and, within it, the sound of the pumps, throbbing, sucking the water from the seas. And then Michael's voice, "The thousand who left with us are dead." For some time we've known the other planets in our solar system were uninhabitable. Now we've been from one end of the galaxy to the other. And this is what we've found... We were given Earth. There's no place else for us. The rest of the planets in the galaxy were given to others. There's no place else for them. We've all had a chance to make the best of Earth. Instead we've made the worst of it. So we're here to stay -- and die." He handed the microphone back. The silence did not change. The President grasped Michael's arm. "What're you saying?" A buzzing rose up from the people like that of a swarm of frightened bees. The sea of white faces swayed and their voices began to cry. The din and motion held, long and drawn out, with a wail now and a fluttering beneath it. Michael and the woman stood above them in the center of the pale, hovering faces of the officials. "Good God," said the President. "You've got to tell them what you said isn't true!" "We've been searching two thousand years for a truth," said Michael. "A thousand of us have died finding it. I've told it. That's the way it's got to be." The President swayed, took the microphone in his hands. "There's been some mistake!" he cried. "Go back to the pumps and the distilleries! Go back to the water vats and the gardens and the flocks! Go back! Work and wait! We'll get the full truth to you. Everything's going to be all right!" Obediently the mass of faces separated, as though they were being spun away on a whirling disk. Michael and the woman were swallowed up, like pebbles inside a closing hand, and carried away from the great, white ship. They ushered the man and woman into the beamed and paneled council chambers and sat them in thick chairs before the wall of polished wood desks across which stared the line of faces, silent and waiting. And on a far wall, facing them all, hung a silver screen, fifty feet square. The President stood. "Members of the council." He paused. "As you heard, they report -- complete failure." He turned to Michael. "And now, the proof." Michael stood beside the motion picture projector, close to his chair. The lights dimmed. There was only the sound of the pumps throbbing in the darkness close and far away, above and beneath and all around. Suddenly on the screen appeared an endless depth of blackness filled with a mass of glowing white, which extended into the room around the watching people, seeming to touch them and then spreading, like an ocean, farther away and out and out into an endless distance. Now streaks of yellow fire shot into the picture, like a swarm of lightning bugs, the thin sharp nosed shadows of space ships, hurtling, like comets, toward the clustered star smear. And then silent thoughts flashed from the screen into the minds of the spectators; of time passing in months, years and centuries, passing and passing until they themselves seemed to be rushing and rushing into the blackness toward blinding balls of white light, the size of moons. The dark shapes of smaller spheres circling the blinding ones moved forward into the picture; red, blue, green, yellow, purple and many mixtures of all these, and then one planet filled the screen, seeming to be inflated, like a balloon, into a shining red ball. There was a razor edge of horizon then and pink sky and an expanse of crimson. Flat, yellow creatures lay all around, expanding and contracting. A roaring rose and fell Then fear flowed out of the picture into the minds of the watchers so that they gasped and cringed, and a silent voice told them that the atmosphere of this planet would disintegrate a human being. Now the red ball seemed to pull away from them into the blackness and the blinding balls of light, and all around could be seen the streaks of rocket flame shooting away in all directions. Suddenly a flash cut the blackness, like the flare of a match, and died, and the watchers caught from the screen the awareness of the death of a ship. They were also aware of the rushing of time through centuries and they saw the streaking rocket flames and planets rushing at them ; saw creatures in squares and circles, in threads wriggling, in lumps and blobs, rolling jumping and crawling; saw them in cloud forms whisking about, changing their shapes, and in flowing wavelets of water. They saw creatures hopping about on one leg and others crawling at incredible speeds on a thousand; saw some with all the numbers of legs and arms in between; and were aware of creatures that were there but invisible. And those watching the screen on which time and distance were a compressed and distilled kaleidoscope, saw planet after planet and thousands at a time; heard strange noises; rasping and roaring, clinks and whistles, screams and crying, sighing and moaning. And they were aware through all this, of atmosphere and ground inimical to man, some that would evaporate at the touch of a human body, or would burst into flame, or swallow, or turn from liquid to solid or solid to liquid. They saw and heard chemical analyses, were aware of this ocean of blackness and clouds of white through which man might move, and must ever move, because he could live only upon this floating dust speck that was Earth. The picture faded in, close to one of the long, needle nosed crafts, showing inside, a man and a woman. Time was telescoped again while the man cut a tiny piece of scar tissue from his arm and that of the woman, put them in bottles and set them into compartments where solutions dripped rhythmically into the bottles, the temperature was held at that of the human body, and synthetic sunlight focused upon them from many pencil like tubes. The watchers in the council chamber saw the bits of tissue swell into human embryos in a few seconds, and grow arms and legs and faces and extend themselves into babies. Saw them taken from the bottles and cared for, and become replicas of the man and woman controlling the ship, who, all this time were aging, until life went out of their bodies. Then the ones who had been the scar tissue disintegrated them in the coffin-like tubes and let their dust be sucked out into space -- all this through years, compressed for the watchers into sixty seconds and a few feet of space. Instantly there was black space on the screen again, with the fingers of flame pointing out behind the dark bodies of the ships. And then the spectators saw one ship shudder and swerve into a blazing, bluish white star, like a gnat flying into a white hot poker; saw another drop away and away, out and out into the blackness past the swirling white rim of the galaxy, and sink into a dark nothingness. Great balls of rock showered like hail onto other ships, smashing them into grotesque tin cans. The stream of fire at the tail of another ship suddenly died and the ship floated into an orbit around a great, yellow planet, ten times the size of Jupiter, then was sucked into it. Another burst like a bomb, flinging a man and woman out into the darkness, where they hung suspended, frozen into statues, like bodies drowned in the depths of an Artie sea. At this instant from the watching council, there were screams of horror and voices crying out, "Shut it off! Shut it off!" There was a moving about in the darkness. Murmurs and harsh cries of disapproval grew in volume. Another ship in the picture was split down the side by a meteor and the bodies inside were impaled on jagged blades of steel, the contorted, bloody faces lighted by bursts of flame. And the screams and crys of the spectators rose higher, "Shut it off... Oh Lord... " Lights flashed through the room and the picture died. staring, saw, along the line of desks, the agonized faces, some staring like white stones, others hidden in clutching fingers, as though they had been confronted by a Medusa. There was the sound of heavy breathing that mixed with the throbbing of the pumps. The President held tightly to the edges of his desk to quiet his trembling. "There -- there've been changes," he said, "since you've been out in space. There isn't a person on Earth who's seen a violent death for hundreds of years." Michael faced him, frowning. "I don't follow you." "Dying violently happened so seldom on Earth that, after a long time, the sight of it began to drive some people mad. And then one day a man was struck by one of the ground cars and everyone who saw it went insane. Since then we've eliminated accidents, even the idea. Now, no one is aware that death by violence is even a possibility." "I'm sorry," said Michael, "we've been so close to violent death for so long... What you've seen is part of the proof you asked for." "What you showed us was a picture," said the President. "If it had been real, we'd all be insane by now. If it were shown to the people there'd be mass hysteria." "But even if we'd found another habitable planet, getting to it would involve just what we've shown you. Maybe only a tenth of the people who left Earth, or a hundredth, would ever reach a destination out in space." "We couldn't tolerate such a possibility," said the President gravely. "We'd have to find a way around it." The pumps throbbed like giant hearts all through the stillness in the council chambers. The faces along the line of desks were smoothing out; ths terror in them was fading away. "And yet the Earth is almost dead," said Michael quietly, "and you can't bring it back to life." "The sins of our past, Mr. Nelson," said the President. "The Atomic wars five thousand years ago. And the greed. It was too late a long time ago. That, of course, is why the expedition was sent out. And now you've come back to us with this terrible news." He looked around, slowly, then back to Michael. Gan you give us any hope at all?" "None." "Another expedition? To Andromeda perhaps? With you the leader?" Michael shook his head. "We're finished with expeditions, Mr. President." There were mutterings in the council, and hastily whispered consultations. Now they were watching the man and woman again. "We feel," said the President, "it would be dangerous to allow you to go out among the people. They've been informed that your statement wasn't entirely true. This was necessary, to avoid a panic. The people simply must not know the whole truth." He paused. "Now we ask you to keep in mind that whatever we decide about the two of you will be for the good of the people." Michael and Mary were silent. "You'll wait outside the council chambers," the President went on, "until we have reached our decision." As the man and woman were led away, the pumps beat in the stillness, and at the edge of the shrinking seas the salt thick waters were being pulled into the distilleries, and from them into the tier upon tier of artificial gardens that sat like giant bee hives all around the shoreline; and the mounds of salt glistening in the sunlight behind the gardens were growing into mountains. Mary were talking through the hours, and waiting. All around them were fragile, form-fitting chairs and translucent walls and a ceiling that, holding the light of the sun when they had first seen it, was now filled with moonlight. Standing at a circular window, ten feet in diameter, Michael saw, far below, the lights of the city extending into the darkness along the shoreline of the sea. "We should have delivered our message by radio," he said, "and gone back into space." "You could probably still go," she said quietly. He came and stood beside her. "I couldn't stand being out in space, or anywhere, without you." She looked up at him. "We could go out into the wilderness, Michael, outside the force walls. We could go far away." He turned from her. "It's all dead. What would be the use?" "I came from the Earth,' she said quietly. "And Fve got to go back to it. Space is so cold and frightening. Steel walls and blackness and the rockets and the little pinpoints of light. It's a prison." "But to die out there in the desert, in that dust." Then he paused and looked away from her. "We're crazy -- talking as though we had a choice." "Maybe they'll have to give us a choice." "What're you talking about?" "They went into hysterics at the sight of those bodies in the picture. Those young bodies that didn't die of old age." He waited. "They can't stand the sight of people dying violently." Her hand went to her throat and touched the tiny locket. "These lockets were given to us so we'd have a choice between suffering or quick painless death... We still have a choice." He touched the locket at his own throat and was very still for a long moment. "So we threaten to kill ourselves, before their eyes. What would it do to them?" He was still for a long time. "Sometimes, Mary, I think I don't know you at all." A pause. "And so now you and I are back where we started. Which'll it be, space or Earth?" "Michael." Her voice trembled. "I -- I don't know how to say this." He waited, frowning, watching her intently. "I'm -- going to have a child." His face went blank. Then he stepped forward and took her by the shoulders. He saw the softness there in her face; saw her eyes bright as though the sun were shining in them; saw a flush in her cheeks, as though she had been running. And suddenly his throat was full. "No," he said thickly. "I can't believe it." "It's true." He held her for a long time, then he turned his eyes aside. "Yes, I can see it is." "I -- I can't put into words why I let it happen, Michael." He shook his head. "I don't know -- what to -- to say. It's so incredible." "Maybe -- I got so -- tired -- just seeing the two of us over and over again and the culturing of the scar tissue, for twenty centuries. Maybe that was it. It was just -- something I felt I had to do. Some -- real life again. Something new. I felt a need to produce something out of myself. It all started way out in space, while we were getting close to the solar system. I began to wonder if we'd ever get out of the ship alive or if we'd ever see a sunset again or a dawn or the night or morning like we'd seen on Earth -- so -- so long ago. And then I had to let it happen. It was a vague and strange thing. There was something forcing me. But at the same time I wanted seemed to be feeling it was a necessary thing." She paused, frowning. "I didn't stop to think -- it would be like this." "Such a thing," he said, smiling grimly, "hasn't happened on Earth for three thousand years. I can remember in school, reading in the history books, how the whole Earth was overcrowded and how the food and water had to be rationed and then how the laws were passed forbidding birth and after that how the people died and there weren't anymore babies born, until at last there was plenty of what the Earth had to give, for everyone. And then the news was broken to everyone about the culturing of the scar tissue, and there were a few dissenters but they were soon conditioned out of their dissension and the population was stabilized." He paused. "After all this past history, I don't think the council could endure what you've done." "No," she said quietly. "I don't think they could." "And so this will be just for us " He took her in his arms. "If I remember rightly, this is a traditional action." A pause. "Now I'll go with you out onto the Earth -- if we can swing it. When we get outside the city, or if we do -- Well, we'll see." They were very still together and then he turned and stood by the window and looked down upon the city and she came and stood beside him. time. And they watched, without speaking, both knowing what was in the other's mind and heart. They watched the giant four dimensional screens all through the city. A green, lush planet showed bright and clear on them and there were ships standing among the trees and men walking through the grass, that moved gently like the swells on a calm ocean, while into their minds came the thoughts projected from the screen: "This will be your new home. It was found and then lost. But another expedition will be sent out to find it again. Be of good hope. Everything will be all right." Michael turned from the window. "So there's our evidence. Two thousand years. All the others killed getting it. And with a simple twist, it becomes a lie." Mary sat down and buried her face in her hands. "What a terrible failure there's been here," said Michael. "The neglect and destruction of a whole planet. It's like a family letting their home decay all around them, and living in smaller and smaller rooms of it, until at last the rooms are all gone, and since they can't find another home, they all die in the ruins of the last room." "I can't face dying," Mary said quietly, "squeezed in with all these people, in this tomb they've made around the seas. I want to have the open sky and the quiet away from those awful pounding pumps when I die. I want the spread of the Earth all around and the clean air. I want to be a real part of the Earth again." Michael barely nodded in agreement. He was standing very still now. And then there was the sound of the door opening. They both rose, like mourners at a funeral, and went into the council chambers. Again they sat in the thick chairs before the wall of desks with the faces of the council looking across it like defenders. The pumps were beating, beating all through the room and the quiet. The President was standing. He faced Michael and Mary, and seemed to set himself as though to deliver a blow, or to receive one. "Michael and Mary," he said, his voice struggling against a tightness, "we've considered a long time concerning what is to be done with you and the report you brought back to us from the galaxy." He took another swallow of water. "To protect the sanity of the people, we've changed your report. We've also decided that the people must be protected from the possibility of your spreading the truth, as you did at the landing field. So, for the good of the people, you'll be isolated. All comforts will be given you. After all, in a sense, you are heroes and martyrs. Your scar tissue will be cultured as it has been in the past, and you will stay in solitary confinement until the time when, perhaps, we can migrate to another planet. We feel that hope must not be destroyed. And so another expedition is being sent out. It may be that, in time, on another planet, you'll be able to take your place in our society." He paused. "Is there anything you wish to say?" "Yes, there is." "Proceed." Michael stared straight at the President. After a long moment, he raised his hand to the tiny locket at his throat. "Perhaps you remember," he said, "the lockets given to every member of the expedition the night before we left. I still have mine." He raised it. "So does my wife. They were designed to kill the wearer instantly and painlessly if he were ever faced with pain or a terror he couldn't endure." The President was standing again. A stir ran along the barricade of desks. "We can't endure the city," went on Michael, "or its life and the ways of the people." He glanced along the line of staring faces. "If what I think you're about to say is true," said the President in a shaking voice, "it would have been better if you'd never been born." "Let's face facts, Mr. President. We were born and haven't died -- yet." A pause. "And we can kill ourselves right here before your eyes. It'd be painless to us. We'd be unconscious. But there would be horrible convulsions and grimaces. Our bodies would be twisted and tom. They'd thresh about. The deaths you saw in the picture happened a long time ago, in outer space. You all went into hysterics at the sight of them. Our deaths now would be close and terrible to see." The President staggered as though about to faint. There was a stirring and muttering and a jumping up along the desks. Voices cried out, in anger and fear. Arms waved and fists pounded. Hands clasped and unclasped and clawed at collars, and there was a pell mell rushing around the President. They yelled at each other and clasped each other by the shoulders, turned away and back again, and then suddenly became very still. Now they began to step down from the raised line of desks, the President leading them, and came close to the man and woman, gathering around them in a wide half circle. Michael and Mary were holding the lockets close to their throats. The half circle of people, with the President at its center was moving closer and closer. They were sweaty faces and red ones and dry white ones and hands were raised to seize them. Michael put his arm around Mary's waist. He felt the trembling in her body and the waiting for death. "Stop!" he said quietly. They halted, in slight confusion, barely drawing back. "If you want to see us die -- just come a step closer... And remember what'll happed to you." The faces began turning to each other and there was an undertone of muttering and whispering. "A ghastly thing... Instant... Nothing to do... Space's broken their minds...They'll do it... Eyes' re mad... What can we do?... What?... The sweaty faces, the cold white ones, the flushed hot ones : all began to turn to the President, who was staring at the two before him like a man watching himself die in a mirror. "I command you," he suddenly said, in a choked voice, "to -- to give me those -- lockets! It's your -- duty!" "We've only one duty, Mr. President," said Michael sharply. "To ourselves." "You're sick. Give yourselves over to us. We'll help you." "We've made our choice. We want an answer. Quickly! Now!" The President's body sagged. "What -- what is it you want?" Michael threw the words. "To go beyond the force fields of the city. To go far out onto the Earth and live as long as we can, and then to die a natural death." The half circle of faces turned to each other and muttered and whispered again. "In the name of God... Let them go... Contaminate us... Like animals... Get them out of here... Let them be finished... Best for us all... And them..." There was a turning to the President again and hands thrusting him forward to within one step of Michael and Mary, who were standing there close together, as though attached. Haltingly he said, "Go. Please go. Out onto the Earth -- to die. You will die. The Earth is dead out there. You'll never see the city or your people again." "We want a ground car," said Michael. "And supplies." "A ground car," repeated the President. "And -- supplies... Yes." "You can give us an escort, if you want to, out beyond the first range of mountains." "There will be no escort," said the President firmly. "No one has been allowed to go out upon the Earth or to fly above it for many hundreds of years. We know it's there. That's enough. We couldn't bear the sight of it." He took a step back. "And we can't bear the sight of you any longer. Go noV. Quickly!" . Michael and Mary did not let go of the lockets as they watched the half circle of faces move backward, staring, as though at corpses that should sink to the floor. lost beyond the dead mounds of Earth that rolled away behind them, like a thousand ancient tombs. The ground car sat still on a crumbling road. Looking up through the car's driving blister, they saw the stars sunk into the blue black ocean of space; saw the path of the Milky Way along which they had rushed, while they had been searching frantically for the place of salvation. "If any one of the other couples had made it back," said Mary, "do you think they'd be with us?" "I think they'd either be with us," he said, "or out in space again -- or in prison." She stared ahead along the beam of headlight that stabbed out into the night over the decaying road. "How sorry are you," she said quietly, "coming with me?" "All I know is, if I were out in space for long without you, I'd kill myself." "Are we going to die out here, Michael?" she said, gesturing toward the wall of night that stood at the end of the headlight, "with the land?" He turned from her, frowning, and drove the ground car forward, watching the headlights push back the darkness. They followed the crumbling highway all night until light crept across the bald and cracked hills. The morning sun looked down upon the desolation ten feet above the horizon when the car stopped. They sat for a long time then, looking out upon the Earth's parched and inflamed skin. In the distance a wall of mountains rose like a great pile of bleached bones. Close ahead the rolling plains were motionless waves of dead Earth with a slight breeze stirring up little swirls of dust. "I'm getting out," she said. "I haven't the slightest idea how much farther to go, or why," said Michael shrugging. "It's all the same. Dirt and hills and mountains and sun and dust. It's really not much different from being out in space. We live in the car just like in a space ship. We've enough concentrated supplies to last for a year. How far do we go? Why? When?" They stepped upon the Earth and felt the warmth of the sun and strolled toward the top of the hill. "The air smells clean," he said. "The ground feels good. I think I'll take off my shoes." She did. "Take off your boots, Michael. Try it." Wearily he pulled off his boots, stood in his bare feet. "It takes me back." "Yes," she said and began walking toward the hilltop. He followed, his boots slung around his neck. "There was a road somewhere, with the dust between my toes. Or was it a dream?" "I guess when the past is old enough," she said, "it becomes a dream." He watched her footprints in the dust. "God, listen to the quiet." "I can't seem to remember so much quiet around me. There's always been the sound of a space ship. or the pumps back in the cities." He did not answer but continued to watch her footsteps and to feel the dust squishing up between his toes. Then suddenly: "Mary!" She stopped, whirling around. He was staring down at her feet. She followed his gaze. "It's grass!" He bent down. "Three blades." She knelt beside him. They touched the green blades. "They're new," he said. They stared, like religious devotees concentrating upon some sacred object. He rose, pulling her up with him. They hurried to the top of the hill and stood very still, looking down into a valley. There were tiny patches of green and little trees sprouting, and here and there, a pale flower. The green was in a cluster, in the center of the valley and there was a tiny glint of sunlight in its center. "Oh!" Her hand found his. They ran down the gentle slope, feeling the patches of green touch their feet, smelling a new freshness in the air. And coming to the little spring, they stood beside it and watched the crystal water that trickled along the valley floor and lost itself around a bend. They saw a furry, little animal scurry away and heard the twitter of a bird and saw it resting on a slim, bending branch. They heard the buzz of a bee, saw it light on a pale flower at their feet and work at the sweetness inside. Mary knelt down and drank from the spring. "It's so cool. It must come from deep down." "It does," he said. There were tears in his eyes and a tightness in his throat. "From deep down." "We can live here, Michael!" Slowly he looked all around until his sight stopped at the bottom of a hill. "We'll build our house just beyond those rocks. We'll dig and plant and you'll have the child." "Yes!" she said. "Oh yes!" "And the ones back in the city will know the Earth again. Sometime we'll lead them back here and show them the Earth is coming alive." He paused. "By following what we had to do for ourselves, we've found a way to save them." They remained kneeling in the silence beside the pool for a long time. They felt the sun on their backs and looked into the clean depth of the water deeply aware of the new life breathing all around them and of themselves absorbing it, and at the same time giving back to it the life that was their own. There was only this quiet and breathing and warmth until Michael stood and picked up a rock and walked toward the base of the hill where he had decided to build sex was in Tensor's world, but when those Earthlings arrived -- !! Colonel Johns , that famous Revolutionary War hero, had the unique j -- and painful -- experience of meeting his great-greatgreat-great granddaughter. Now maybe you can't change history, but what's there to prevent a soldier from changing his mind about the gal he is going to marry? #e OndeaC By George H. Smith Illustrated by Rudolph Palais scrounged still lower in his seat as Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin rested her enormous bosom on the front of the podium and smiled down on the Patriot Daughters of America in convention assembled as she announced: "And now, my dears, I will read you one more short quotation from Major Wicks' fascinating book 'The Minor Tactics of The American Revolution.' When I am finished, I know that you will all agree that Rebecca Johns-Hayes will be a more than fitting successor to myself as your President." Decker looked wildly about for a way of escape from the convention auditorium. If he had only remained in the anteroom with Professor MacCulloch and the Historical Reintergrator! After suffering through four days of speeches by ladies in various stages of mammalian top-heaviness, he hadn't believed it possible that anyone could top Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin for either sheer ability to bore or for the nobility of her bust. Mrs. Rebecca Johns-Hayes had come as something of a shock as she squirmed her way onto the speaker's platform. But there she was as big as life, or rather bigger, smilin g at Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin, the Past President beaming at Mrs. Lynd-Torris, a defeated candidate for the presidency and whose ancestor had been only a captain, and completely ignoring Mrs. Tolman, the other defeated candidate whose ancestor had been so inconsiderate as to have been a Continental sergeant. Only the thought that now that the voting was over and the new president chosen, the ladies might be ready for the demonstration of the Reintergrator had brought Decker onto the convention floor, and now he was trapped and would have to listen. "And so," Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin was reading, "upon such small events do the great moments of hisand skirmishing of the riflemen under Colonel Peter Johns prevented the breakthrough of Captain Fosdick's column and the possible flanking of the American army before Saratoga. Thus, this little known action may have been the deciding factor in the whole campaign that prevented General Burgoyne from carrying out the British plan to divide the colonies and end the war. It is impossible for the historian to refrain from speculation as to what might have happened had Colonel Johns not been on hand to direct the riflemen and militia in this section; as indeed he might not have been, since his own regiment of short-term enlistees had returned to Pennsylvania a few days previously. Only the Colonel's patriotism and devotion to duty kept him in the field and made his abilities available to the country when they were most needed." Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin waited until the burst of applause had died down and then continued, "That is the man whose great-great-greatgreat granddaughter you have elected your president today Mrs. Rebecca Johns-Hayes!" Turning to Mrs. Johns-Hayes she went on, "Before you make your acceptance speech, dear, we have a little surprise for you." Clark Decker had been edging his way toward the side of the auditorium where the Men's Auxiliary of the Daughters had their seats but he turned back at the mention of the surprise. It sounded as though it was time for him and the Professor to start their demonstration. "A surprise which we hope will also be a surprise to the whole world of science," Mrs. ApplebySimpkin was holding the podium against a determinedly advancing Mrs. Johns-Hayes. "Indeed we may be able to say in future years, that the # Convention of the Patriot Daughters was marked by the first public demonstration of one of the most momentous inventions in the history of science." The Past President was speaking faster and faster, because the new President with a hand full of notes was doing her best to edge her away from both the podium and the microphone. "Thank you, darling," Mrs. Johns-Hayes said, pulling the microphone firmly toward her, "but we really must get along with business. I have quite a few things I want to say and several motions which I want to place before the Convention." "And as I was saying, dear," Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin said, pulling the microphone back with equal firmness, "I know that you will be just unbearably thrilled." There was another brief struggle for the mike and Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin won and went on. "I know that he will be just as proud of you as you are of him. That is why we have arranged for Professor MacCulloch to demonstrate his historical Reintegrator at our convention by bringing into our midst Colonel Peter Johns, the hero of the action at Temple Farm, to see his greatgreat-great-great-granddaughter installed as the fifty-fourth president of the Loyal Order of Patriot Daughters of America. Now I... Mrs. Johns-Hayes again won control of the mike. "Thank you very much, dear." Her voice was a genteel screech. "I'm sure that we will be only too glad to have the... who? Who did you say?" Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin regained the microphone from the other woman's relaxing grip. "I believe I see Mr. Decker, the Professor's assistant, in the audience," she said. "Will you be so good as to tell the Professor that we are ready for his epic-making experiment?" With a great feeling of relief, Decker escaped from the rising turmoil of the convention hall into the relative quiet of the anteroom where MacCulloch waited with the Reintegrator. He found the Professor sitting with his head in his hands staring at the machine. The little man looked up and smiled quizzically as his assistant approached him. "They're ready, Professor ! They're ready!" Still under the influence of the convention, Decker found himself shouting. "Ah. Ah, yes. Then it will be today. I've waited so long. Ten years of work and now instead of a scientific gathering, I have to demonstrate my machine before a woman's club." platform which held the Reintegrator toward the door. "After today, Professor, all the scientific organizations in the world will have heard of you and will be demanding demonstrations." "Yes, but these Patriot Daughters! Who are they? Who in the scientific world ever heard of them?" "No one except a few scientists unfortunate enough to fall afoul of their Loyalty and Conformity Committee." "I think we should have gone elsewhere for our demonstration." "Now Professor. Who in the world today would be interested in the past except a group of ancestor conscious women?" "Some historical society perhaps," the Professor said wistfully. "And what historical society could have advanced the twenty thousand dollars we needed to complete the machine?" "I suppose you're right, my boy," MacCulloch sighed as he helped push the Reintegrator onto the auditorium floor. By the time Clark Decker reached the platform to explain the demonstration, the fight for the microphone had turned into a three-way struggle. A lady who represented the Finance Committee was trying to win it away from both the Past President and the new President. Taking them by surprise, Decker managed to gain control long enough to explain what was about to happen. "You mean' demanded Mrs. Johns-Hayes, "that this is some sort of time machine and you're going to transport great-great-great-greatgrandfather from the past into the present?" "No, Mrs. Hayes. This isn't a time machine in the comic book use of the term. It is just what Professor MacCulloch has called it, an historical Reintegrator. The theory upon which it is based, the MacCulloch Reaction, says that every person who ever existed, and every event which ever took place caused electrical disturbances in the spacetime continuum of the universe by displacing an equal and identical group of electrons. The task of the Reintegrator is to reassemble those electrons. That is why Professor MacCulloch is now placing your ancestor's sword in the machine. We will use that as a base point from which our recreation will begin." The machine was humming and small lights were beginning to play about its tubes and dials. "If our calculations are accurate, and we believe that they are," Decker said, "within a very few minutes, Colonel Johns should be standing before us as he was on a day approximately a week before his heroic action in the battle at Temple Farm." Mrs. Johns-Hayes, although still gripping her notes, was beginning to get a little flustered. "Oh my, that would be before he married great-great-great-great-grandmother Sayles. They were married only two days before the battle, you know. It was so romantic... a wartime romance and all." "Just imagine," Mrs. Tolman remarked, "at that time your whole family was just a gleam in the Colonel's eye!" Professor MacCulloch made one or two last passes at the machine and then stood back to watch, a look of pure scientific ecstasy on his face. A mistiness began to gather on the platform where the Colonel's sword lay and through it from time to time shot sparks of electricity. Suddenly a gasp went up from the assembled Daughters as a man's head and shoulders appeared and expanded downward, a long way downward, to a large pair of feet. There was one last hum from the machine and then a tall young man in faded blue regimentals and very much in need of a shave was standing blinking in the blazing lights of the auditorium. "Oh, Mr. Decker, surely there's some mistake!" was Mrs. JohnsHayes' first comment as she surveyed the very tall, very tattered, and very dirty young man. "Greatgreat-great-great-grandfather's pictures always show him as a dignified old gentleman." The Colonel took one quick look around and made a grab for his sword, but the Professor managed to calm him and to explain the situation before any violence could take place. After a few minutes of hurried talk, MacCulloch steered the Colonel in the direction of the speaker's platform for the meeting with his great-great-great-greatgranddaughter. Peter Johns' bewilderment faded into astonishment, but he still gripped his sword as the Professor guided him through the throngs of excited ladies onto the stage. He paused momentarily to look at the ber of American flags which hung overhead. A picture of George Washington, hung among the flags, seemed to reassure him and he allowed the Professor to lead him to Mrs. Johns-Hayes. That lady had drawn herself together at the approach of her ancestor and had obviously decided to carry it off as best she could. She advanced to meet him crying, "Dear, dear great-great-great-greatgrandfather! This is such a pleasure! You can't know how proud all of us in the family have always been of you." The young Continental officer stared open mouthed at the redfaced, big-bosomed woman who was twice his age, but who addressed him as great-great-greatgreat-grandfather. Then he turned to MacCulloch who stood beside him. "Are you sure you have the right man?" he asked. "Oh yes! Perfectly, perfectly! You're Colonel Peter Johns of Pamworth, Pennsylvania, and this is your great-great-great-greatgranddaughter, Rebecca JohnsHayes." "Rebecca? You mean she's named after Becky Sayles?" The Colonel rubbed a hand across his several days' growth of beard. "That's right, dear great-greatgreat-great-grandfather. I'm named after great-great-great-great-grandmother," Mrs. Johns-Hayes announced. "Then I married Becky Sales?" the Colonel asked. "Why, of course! Aren't you planning on getting married in a few days?" Clark Decker asked. The Colonel was embarrassed but he grinned, "Well, I don't rightly know. Miss Sayles and I have been courtin' for some months but there's little Jennie Taylor down in Trenton... To tell the truth, I haven't quite made up my mind." "Well! Of all things! What would the family think! What would great Aunt Mary Hayes say?" Mrs. Johns-Hayes puffed out even farther than usual. "Well, we can ease your mind on that subject, Colonel. The history books say that you married Miss Sayles -- and here is Mrs. JohnsHayes to prove it." The Colonel scratched his chin again as he looked at Mrs. JohnsHayes. "Is that so? Is that so? What's all this about history books? You mean I got in history because I married Becky Sayles?" The Professor laughed. "Well, not exactly. It was because of your heroism in the defeat of Burgoyne's army. If you hadn't blocked Captain Fenwick's flanking move at Temple Farm, the American army under General Gates might have been defeated and the Colonies might even have lost the war." "Well, I'll be... Me? I did all that? I didn't even know there was going to be a battle. Did I end up a live hero or a dead one?" The Colonel was beginning to feel a bit more easy in his surroundings, and, to the horror of Mrs. Johns-Hayes, took a plug of tobacco out of his pocket and bit off a piece and began to chew it. "You came through the battle with only a slight wound and lived to a ripe old age surrounded by grandchildren," the Professor told him. "Then I reckon I won't go back to Pennsylvania with the other boys. They figure that since their enlistments are up, it's time to get back to the farm and let them New Yorkers do some of their own fightmg. "Oh no! You weren't thinking of going back -- of leaving the fighting?" Mrs. Johns-Hayes demanded. The Colonel shifted his wad of tobacco and looked at the woman carefully as though he couldn't quite believe the evidence of his eyes. "No, ma'am, I don't reckon I am. I don't exactly look on it the same as the other boys do. I kind of feel like if we're ever going to have a country, it's worth fighting for." Mrs. Johns-Hayes beamed, as did all the other officers of the Daughters. "Well, your faith and heroism have been rewarded, great-greatgreat-great-grandfather. I know you'll be proud to know that these ladies whom you see before you are the present guardians of the ideals that you fought for." "Well, now, is that so, ma'am? Is that so?" Peter Johns looked around the convention hall in amazement. "And that I, your descendant, have just been elected their President!" "Well, what do you know about that! Maybe all the hard times and the danger we been going through is worth it if you folks still remember the way we felt about things." "It's too bad," Decker whispered to MacCulloch, "that we can't let him see what the country is really like. I'm not sure these ladies are representative." There was a worried look on the Professor's face. "That's impossible. The reintegration is good for only an hour or so. I hope nothing goes wrong here." Mrs. Appleby Simpkin took charge of the Colonel and ushered him to a seat of honor near the podium while the new President prepared to deliver her speech. Decker and the professor managed to obtain seats on either side of Johns just as Rebecca started. He managed to whisper to them, "I'm sure amazed! I'm sure amazed! All these nice old ladies feeling the same way about things as we do." of trouble as Mrs. Hayes' words poured forth. He had hoped for a cut and dried acceptance speech with nothing but the usual patriotic platitudes, but, as she went on his worst fears were realized. Inspired by the presence of her ancestor, the woman was going into superlatives about the purposes and aims of the Patriot Daughters. She covered everything from the glories of her ancestry to the morals of the younger generation and women in politics. Decker watched the Coloners face, saw it changed from puzzlement to painful boredom as word after word floated from the battery of speakers overhead. MacCulloch was whispering in Johns' ear in an attempt to draw his attention from the woman's booming voice but the man disregarded him. "Am I really responsible for that? The Colonel jerked his head in the direction of Mrs. Johns-Hayes. "I'm afraid, Colonel, that you're getting a distorted idea of what America is like in our time," Decker said. The Colonel didn't even turn to look at him. He was scowling at his Amazonian descendant as her screeching reached new heights. "... and we hold that this is true! Our simple motto, as you all know, is: One race, one creed, one way of thinking!" Colonel Johns began to squirm violently in his seat. The professor found it necessary to grasp him firmly by one arm while Decker held him by the. other. The president of the Patriot Daughters had finished her speech amidst thunderous applause and started to present suggestions for the formation of new committees, for the passing of new by-laws and for resolutions. "A committee should be formed to see that the public parks are properly policed to prevent socalled 'spooners' from pursuing their immoral behaviour. "A new by-law is needed," and here Mrs. Hayes glanced aside at Mrs. Tolman, "to prevent members being accepted unless their forebears were lieutenants or of higher rank in the glorious Continental army." The Colonel was a strong man and both Decker and MacCulloch were older than he. With something between a snort and a roar he shook them loose and started for the exit. "Oh my," MacCulloch moaned, "I was afraid that this whole thing was a mistake." Colonel Johns had taken only two steps toward the door when he seemed to stagger. MacCulloch leaped to his side and caught him by the arm. There was an uproar in the auditorium as the Colonel faded slightly and the professor hurried him down the steps toward the Reintegrator. "I'm afraid the Colonel isn't going to be with us much longer," the professor explained. Thank goodness, Decker thought, I don't believe the poor man could have stood it much longer. "I'm afraid the reintegration time of Colonel Johns is running out and he must return to his own time," the professor went on. The grim-faced Colonel said nothing as MacCulloch led him up to the machine. "Goodbye, great-great-greatgreat-grandfather," Mrs. JohnsHayes called from the platform. "It has been so nice having you with us." "Goodbye, Rebecca," the Colonel said as he began to fade away. "Give my regards to great-greatgreat-great-grandmother." The figure in the dirty, faded blue uniform was gone but Decker (Continued on page #) Theirs was a world of great culture yet their destiny had ever been run , run , run -- flee the Hunters. Even with the near perfection of the Concerts, the ultimate advance of civilized man, they would run once again. But this time there were two who stayed behind... By Alan E. Nourse Illustration by Rudolph Palais when Ravdin eased the ship down into the last slow arc toward the Earth's surface. Stretching his arms and legs, he tried to relax and ease the tension in his tired muscles. Carefully he tightened the seat belt for landing; then he blinked eagerly down at the vast, tangled expanse of Jungle-land below him. Several miles ahead was the bright circle of the landing field, with the sparkling glow of the city beyond. Momentarily his eyes swept the horizon beyond the city, hoping to catch a glimpse of the Concert before he was swallowed A bell chimed softly in his ear, and Ravdin brought his attention back to the landing operation. He was still numb and shaken from the Warp-passage, his mind still muddled by the abrupt and incredible change. Moments before the sky had been a vast, starry blanket of black velvet ; then, abruptly, he had been hovering over the city, sliding down toward warm friendly lights and music. He checked the proper switches and felt the throbbing purr of anti-gravs as the ship slid down toward the landing slot. The tall spires of the other ships rose to meet him, circle upon circle of silver needles in the bright landing place. The instrument panel whirred into activity as the automatics set the ship back into the berth from which it had risen days before. With a sigh, Ravdin eased himself out of the seat, his heart pounding with excitement. Perhaps, he thought, he was too excited, too eager to be home, for his mind still reeled from the fearful discovery of his journey. The station was completely empty as Ravdin walked down the ramp to the shuttles. At the desk he checked his fuel report in the shiny punchcard robot, and walked swiftly across the polished floor. The wall panels pulsed a sombre blue-green, broken sharply by brilliant flashes and overtones of scarlet, reflecting with subtle accuracy the tumult in his own mind. Not a sound was in the air, not a whisper nor sign of human habitation. Vaguely, uneasiness grew in his mind as he entered the shuttle station. Then, suddenly, the music caught him -- a long, low chord of indescribable beauty, rising and falling in the wind, a distant whisper of life. The Concert, of course. Everyone would be at the Concert tonight, and even at the five-mile distance, the beauty of four hundred perfectly harmonized voices could carry to him in the breeze. The uneasiness disappeared, replaced by an eagerness to join, to discharge his horrible message and join the others in the great amphitheatre set deep in the hillside outside the city. Because he knew everyone would be there -- except one. Instinctively Ravdin knew that Lord Nehmon would be missing the Concert, too, waiting for him to return. The shuttle slipped soundlessly from its berth, rising in a slow arc high over the edges of Jungle-land toward the shining walls of the city. Ravdin settled back, trying to clear his mind of the shock and horror, straining to catch the wisps of music as he crossed closer to the hillside place, down into the bright beauty of the city. The curves and spires of glowing plastic passed below, and his throat tightened as he looked down. Very suddenly he realized that his whole life was entangled in the very beauty of that wonderful city, everything he had ever hoped or dreamed lay sheltered there in the ever-clinging rhythm of colors and shapes and sounds. And now, he knew, he would see his beloved city burning once again, a consuming pyre, heartbreaking memorial to the ageold fear of his people. Softly the little shuttle-car sighed, settling down gently on the green terrace near the center of the city. The building was a masterpiece of smoothly curving walls and tasteful lines, opening a full side to the south to catch the soft sunlight and warm breezes. Ravdin stepped onto the deep carpeting of the terrace. There was other music here, different music, a wilder, more intimate fantasy of whirling sound. An oval door opened for him, ushering him into the vaulted room. He stopped short, staggered for a moment by the overpowering beauty of the dance before him. A girl with flaming red hair -- red like the color of new flame -- dancing with enthralling beauty and abandon, her flowing body moving like ripples of wind to the music which filled the room with its throbbing cry. Her beauty was exquisite, every motion, every flowing turn, a symphony of flawless perfection as she danced to the wild music. "Lord Nehmon!" The dancer threw back her head sharply, eyes wide, her body frozen in midair, and then, abruptly, she was gone, leaving only the barest flickering image of her fiery hair. The music slowed, singing softly, and Ravdin could see the man who sat in the room, looking at him. Nehmon rose, a tall, vital man, his graying hair and the strong, sad lines of his face belying the youthful movement of his body. A smile broke on his face, and he came forward, clapping Ravdin on the back, taking his hand warmly. "You're too late for the Concert -- it's a shame. Mischana is the master tonight, and the whole city is there -- " Ravdin' s throat tightened as he tried to smile, and his voice was hoarse and urgent. "They're coming , Nehmon! I saw them, hours ago -- " The last overtones of the dance broke abruptly, like a glass shattered on stone. The room was deathly still. Lord Nehmon's eyes searched the younger man's face for a long moment; then he turned away, not quite concealing the sadness and pain in his eyes. "You couldn't be mistaken?" "No chance. I found signs of their passing in a dozen places. I saw them, their whole fleet. There were hundreds. They're coming, I saw them." "Did they see you?" Nehmon's voice was sharp. "No, no. The Warp is a wonderful thing. With it, I can come and go in the twinkling of an eye. But I saw them in the twinkling of an eye." "It couldn't have been anyone else?" "Could anyone else build ships like the Hunters?" Nehmon sighed, sinking back into his relaxer, shaking his head. "No one that we know." He glanced up at the scout. "Sit down, Ravdin, sit down. I -- I'll just have to rearrange my thinking a little. Where were they? How far?" Ravdin sat down facing him, his face drawn and pale. "Seven light years, Nehmon. Can you imagine it? Just seven, and they were coming without hesitation. They know where we are." His eyes filled with fear. "They couldn't have come -- unless they have the Warp, too -- " The older man's breath cut off sharply. There was real alarm in his eyes. "You're right," he said softly. "Six months ago it was eight hundred light years away, in an era completely remote from us. Now just seven. In six months they have come so close -- " "And there's no confusion now. They know where we are -- " the scout looked up at Nehmon, a desolate look. "What can we do? We have only weeks, maybe days, before they're here. We have no time to plan, no time to prepare for them. What can we do?" The room was silent. Finally the older man stood up, wearily, his six hundred years of life showing in his face for the first time in centuries. "We can do once again what we have always done," he said sadly. "We can run away." oval window was empty and quiet. Not a breath of air stirred in the city. Ravdin stared out in shocked silence, hardly believing the words, now that he'd heard them. "Again", he said dully. "After we have worked so hard, done so much -- now we must burn the city and flee again -- " His voice trailed off to silence. He stared at Nehmon, seeking in his face some answer, some reassurance. He found no answer there, only sadness. "The Concerts -- it's taken so long, we're so close to the ultimate goal in the Concerts -- " he gestured toward the thought-sensitive sounding boards lining the walls, through which the dancer-illusion had been possible -- "All the beauty and peace we've found here -- " "I know. How well I know." Ravdin's voice became sharper. "Yet the Hunters come again, and again we must run away." He stared at the old man, his eyes suddenly bright. "Nehmon, I've been thinking -- " Nehmon looked up sharply. Not in alarm, but with a look of pleading, like the look of an old and dying man who begs to be spared false hope. A faint smile crossed his lips. "I think, too, sometimes." "Not what I've been thinking." Ravdin sat down, clasping his hands in excitement. "We run away, Nehmon. Think about that a moment. We run, and we run, and we run. From what? We run from the Hunters. They're hunting us, these Hunters. They never quite find us, because we've already run. We're clever, we're fortunate, we have a way of life that they do not, so they've never found us -- yet. Whenever they come close to finding us, we run." Nehmon nodded slowly. "For thousands of years." Ravdin's eyes were bright. "Yes, we run, we cringe, we hide under stones, we break up our lives and tear up our families, we run like frightened animals -- " he gulped a breath, and his eyes sought Nehmon's, angrily. "Why do we run , my Lord?" Nehmon's eyes widened. "Because we have no choice," he said sharply. "We must run or be killed. You know that, you've seen the records, you've been taught." "Oh, yes, I've been taught, I know. I've been taught that millenia ago remote ancestors of ours fought the Hunters, and lost, and fled, and were pursued -- and always ran, ran, ran. But why? Time after time we've been cornered, and we've turned and fled. Why? Even animals know that when they're cornered they must turn and fight-" "We are not animals " Nehmon's voice cut the air like a whiplash. "But we could fight." "Animals fight. We do not. We fought once, like animals, and now we must run from the Hunters, who must continue to fight like animals. Let the Hunters fight." Ravdin rubbed his lips, sinking back into the relaxer. "Then -- the Hunters are not men like us," he said suddenly. "That's what you're saying. They're animals. We kill animals for our food, isn't that true? We kill the tiger-beasts in the Jungle to protect ourselves. Why not kill the Hunters to protect ourselves?" Nehmon sighed, and reached out a hand to the younger man. "#'m sorry, # he said gently. "It seems logical, but it's false logic. No, the Hunters are men -- men just like you and me. Their lives are different, their culture is different, but they are men. And human life is sacred, to us, above all else. This is the fundamental basis of our very existence. Without it we would be Hunters, too. If we fight, we are dead. That's why we must run away now, and always. Because we know that we must not kill men. # night air was suddenly full of voices, chattering , intermingled with whispers of song and occasional brief harmonic flutterings. The footfalls were muted on the polished pavement as the people passed, slowly, their voices carrying a hint of puzzled uneasiness as they passed. "The Concert's over! # Ravdin walked to the window, feeling a chill pass through him. "So soon -- something must have gone wrong. # Eagerly he searched the faces passing in the street for Dana's face, sensing the lurking discord in the people's quiet talk. Suddenly the sound-boards in the room tinkled a carrilon of ruby tones in his ear and he turned from the window. And then she was in the room, his new bride, rushing to his arms with a happy cry, pressing her soft cheek to his rough chin. "You're back! Oh, I'm so glad, so very glad!" She turned to Lord Nehmon then, her face stricken. "Oh, Nehmon, if you could have been there tonight -- it was horrible. There was something in the air. Everyone felt it -- we knew there was something wrong, and the Concert was ruined. The people were afraid -- " Ravdin turned away sharply. "Tell her," he said to the old man. Dana looked at them, her gray eyes widening in horror. "The Hunters! They've found us?" Ravdin nodded wordlessly. Her hands trembled as she sat down, and there were tears in her eyes. "We came so close tonight -- so very close. I felt the music before it was sung, do you realize that? I felt the fear around me, even though no one said a word. It wasn't vague or fuzzy, it was clear! The transference was perfect." She turned her stunned face to the old man. "It's taken so long to come this far, Nehmon. So much work and training to reach toward a perfect communal Concert. We've had only two hundred years here, only two hundred! I was just a little girl when we came, I can't even remember before that. Before we came here we were undisturbed for a thousand years, and before that, four thousand. But two hundred -- we can # t leave now. Not when we've come so far." Ravdin looked from Dana to the old man. "Closer and closer. This time they will catch us. Or next time, or the next. And that will be the end of everything for us, unless we fight them." He paused, watching the last groups dispersing on the street below. "If we only knew, for sure, what we were running from." There was a startled silence. The girl's breath came in a gasp and her eyes widened as his words sank home. "Ravdin," she said softly. "Have you ever seen a Hunter ?" The couple stared at each other in amazement. Ravdin felt chill of excitement tingle his spine. Music burst from the sounding-board -- odd, wild music, suddenly hopeful. "No," he said, "no, of course not. You know that." She rose from her seat, trembling. She looked at Lord Nehmon. "Have you ? # "Never." The old man's voice was harsh. Dana stared at her husband. "Has anyone ever seen a Hunter?" Ravdin's hand trembled. "I -- I don't know. None of us living now, no. It's been too long since they last actually found us. I've read -- oh, I can't remember. I think my grandfather saw them -- or my great grandfather -- somewhere back there. It's been thousands of years -- " "Yet we've been tearing ourselves up by the roots, wrenching our people from planet to planet, running and dying and still running. Suppose that we might not have to run?" He stared at her. "But they keep coming. They keep searching for us. What more proof do you need?" Dana's face glowed with excitement; her slender body was alive with new vitality, new hope. "But they might have changed. Things can happen -- look at us, how we've grown since the wars with the Hunters. Think how our philosophy and culture have matured! Oh, Ravdin, you were to be Master at a Concert next month. Think how the Concerts have changed ! Even my grandmother can remember when the Concerts were just a few performers playing, and everyone else just sitting and listening! Can you imagine anything more silly? They hadn't even thought of transference then, they never dreamed what a real Concert-communion could be. Why, those people had never tasted music, until they became a part of the music. Even we can see these changes -- why couldn't the Hunters have grown and changed just as we have?" Nehmon's voice broke in, almost harshly, as he faced the excited pair. "The Hunters don't have Concerts," he said grimly. "You're deluding yourselves. They laughed at our music, they scoffed at our arts and twisted them into mockeries. They had no concept of beauty in their language. The Hunters are incapable of change." "And you can say that when nobody has seen them for thousands of years?" Nehmon met her steady eyes, read the strength and determination in their depths. He knew, despairingly, what they were thinking -- that he was old, that he couldn't understand, that his mind was channeled now beyond the approach of wisdom. "You mustn't think what you're thinking," he said weakly. "You're blind. You wouldn't know, you couldn't have any idea what you would find. If you tried to contact them, you could be lost completely, killed, tortured. If they haven't changed, you wouldn't stand a chance. You'd never come back, Dana." "She's right." Ravdin's voice was low in the still room. "You're wrong, my Lord. We can't continue this way if we're to survive. Sometime our people must contact them, find the link that was once between us, and forge it strong again. We could do it." "I could forbid you to go." Dana looked at her husband, and her eyes were proud. "You could forbid us to go," she said, facing the old man, "but you could never stop us." land a great beast watched with green-gleaming eyes, licking his fanged jaws as he watched the glowing city, sensing somehow that the mystifying circle of light and motion was soon to become his jungle again. In the city the turmoil bubbled over, as wave after wave of the people made the short safari across the intervening jungle to the circles of their ships. Husbands, wives, fathers, mothers, carrying their small, frail remembrances out to the ships. There was music among them still, but it was a different sort of music, now, an eerie, hopeless music that drifted out of the city on the wind and caused all but the bravest of the beasts to prickle the hair on their backs and run in panic through the jungle darkness. A melancholy music carried from thought to thought, from voice to voice as the people of the city wearily prepared themselves once again for the long journey. To run away. In the darkness of secrecy, to be gone, without a trace, without symbol or vestige of their once proud presence, leaving only the scorched circle of land for the jungle to reclaim, so that no eyes, not even the sharpest, would ever know how long they had stayed, nor where they might have gone. In the rounded room of his house, Lord Nehmon dispatched the last of his belongings, a few remembrances, nothing more, because the 'space on the ships must take people, not remembrances. He knew that the remembrances would bring only pain. All day he had supervised the loading, the intricate preparations, following plans laid down millenia before. He saw the libraries and records transported, mile upon endless mile of multimicrofilm, carted to the ships prepared to carry them, stored until a new resting place was found. The history of a people was carried to those ships, a people once proud and strong, now equally proud, but dwindling in numbers in toll for the constant roving. A proud people, yet a people who would turn and run without thought, in a panic of age-old fear. They had to run, Nehmon knew, if they were to survive. And with a blaze of anger in his heart, he almost hated the two young people waiting with him for the last ship to be filled. For these two would not go. It had been a long night, a painful night. He had pleaded and begged, to persuade them that there was no hope, that the very idea of remaining behind or trying to contact the Hunters was insane. Yet he knew they were sane -- perhaps unwise, naive, but their decision had been reached, and they would not be shaken. The day was almost gone, the sun sinking lower as the last ships began to fill. Nehmon turned to Ravdin and Dana, his face lined and tired. "You'll have to go soon," he said. "The city will be burned, of course, as always. You'll be left with food and with weapons against the jungle. The Hunters will know that we've been here, but they'll not know when, nor where we have gone. You will have to see that they don't learn." Dana shook her head. "We'll tell them nothing, unless it's safe for them to know." "They'll question you, even torture you -- " She smiled calmly. "Perhaps they won't. But as a last resort, we can blank out." Nehmon's face went white. "You'd never regain your memory," he said. That must be saved as a last resort." Down below on the street the last groups of people were passing, the last sweet, eerie tones rising to the darkening room. In a few moments the last families would have taken their refuge in the ships, waiting for Nehmon to give the dreaded signal to fire the plastic city before the ships started on their voyage. The Concerts were over. They all knew the years of aimless wandering in the black reaches of space before another home could be found. They knew the longer years of settlement and turmoil before the Concerts could once again rise from their hearts and throats and minds, once again work toward the climactic expression of their heritage. Ravdin felt the desolation in the people's minds, the utter hopelessness in the old man's face, and his own mind reeled in sudden despair. It was such a slender hope, so frail and dangerous. He knew of the terrible fight, the war of his people against the Hunters, so many thousand thousand years before. They had risen together, a common people, a single planet their home. And then, the gradual splitting of the nations, his own people living in peace, seeking the growth and beauty of the arts, hating the bitterness and barrenness of war -- and the Hunters, under an iron heel of militarism, of government for the perpetuation of government, split farther and farther from them. It was an ever-widening split as the Hunters grew to hate Ravdin' s people for all the things the Hunters were losing: peace, love, happiness. Ravdin knew of the slowly developing doctrine of the Sanctity of Life, shattered abruptly by the horrible wars, and then the centuries of fear and flight, hiding from the wrath of the Hunters' vengeance. His people had learned much in those long years -- they had conquered disease, they had grown in strength as they dwindled in numbers. And now the end could be seen, crystal clear, the end of his people and a ghastly grave. Nehmon's voice broke the silence. "If you must go, then go. The city will burn an hour after we blast." "We will be safe, outside the some fraction of her strength and confidence in her husband's heart. "Wish us the best, Nehmon. If a link can be forged, we will do it." "I wish you the best in everything." There were tears in the old man's eyes as he turned and left the room. and heard the running animals. They shivered in the cool night air as the bright sparks of the ships' exhausts faded into the black starry sky. A man and a woman, speechless, watching, staring with awful longing into the skies, watching the. bright specks flicker and go out -- Purple spumes of flame shot into the air from the city, throwing a ghastly, un-human light on the frightened jungle, spires of flame seeking the stars with their fingers as the plastic walls and streets of the city hissed and shriveled, blackening, bubbling into a vanishing memory before their eyes. The flames shot high, carrying with them the last remnants of the city which had stood proud and tall an hour before. And then a silence fell, deathly, like the lifeless silence of a cold grave. Finally, out of the silence, little whispering sounds of the jungle crept to their ears, first frightened, then curious, then bolder and bolder, as the wisps of grass and little animals ventured out and out toward the clearing where the city had stood. And the jungle gathered courage, and the clearing slowly, silently, began to disappear. And then, days later, new sparks of light appeared in the black sky, grew to larger specks, and then to flames, and finally settled to the earth on powerful, flaming jets. They were squat, misshapen vessels, circling down out of the air, hissing, screeching, landing with a grinding crash in the tall thicket of the jungle. Ravdin's signal had brought the ships down, and the Hunters had seen them, standing on a hilltop where the amphitheater had been. Men had come out of the ship, large men with cold faces and dull eyes, weapons strapped to their trim uniforms. The Hunters had blinked at them, unbelieving, and their weapons were held ready. Ravdin and Dana were seized and led to the largest ship. As they approached it, their hearts sank and they clasped hands to bolster their failing hope. The leader of the Hunters sat back from his desk as they were thrust into the cabin. His face was a graven mask as he searched their faces dispassionately, the slightest hint of a sneer about his deep-set, thoughtful eyes. Their eyes were pale with fear in the bright light, and Frankie felt a wave of disgust pass through his mind. "Chickens," he muttered. "We have been hunting down chickens." His eyes turned to one of the guards. "They have been searched?" "Of course, sir." "And questioned?" The guard frowned. "Their language, sir, it's almost unintelligible." "You've studied the basic tongues, haven't you?" Frankie's voice was as cold as his eyes. "Of course, sir, but this is very different -- " Frankie's eyes swept contemptuously to the fair-skinned pair, and fixed upon their faces for a long moment. Finally he said, "Well?" Ravdin glanced briefly at Dana's white face. His own voice seemed weak and unsteady in comparison to the Hunter's grating baritone. "You are the leader of the Hunters?" Frankie regarded them sourly, without replying. His thin face was swarthy, his short-cut grey hair matching the cold grey of his eyes. His was an odd face, completely expressionless, blank of any thought or emotion, yet capable of shifting to a strange biting slyness in the briefest instant. It was a rich face, a face of inscrutable depth. Sharply he pushed his chair back, his eyes watchful and sharp. "We know your people were here," he said suddenly. "Now they've gone and you've stayed behind." There was no softness in the man's face, only suspicion and distrust. "Presumably you had some reason for such rashness. Are you going to tell me now, or do you prefer to waste a few days of my time first?" Ravdin stared at him for a moment. "My people were here, that's true. We stayed to contact you, to tell you we want peace -- " Frankie's eyes widened, almost startled. Then tired lines appeared around his eyes. "Is that all you have to say? Where have your people gone?" Ravdin met him eye for eye. "I can't say." The Hunter burst into a short laugh. "I'm quite sure you can. You don't choose to -- just now. Let's be precise. Who knows, very soon you may wish with all your heart to tell me -- " Dana's voice was sharp. "We want peace -- that's all there is to say. This constant hunting and running is senseless, exhausting to both of us. We want to make peace with you, to bring our people together again." Frankie snorted. "You came to us in war, once, long ago. Now you want peace. What would you do, clasp us to your bosom, to smother us in your idiotic music? Or have you gone on to greater things?" Ravdin's face flushed hotly. "Much greater things," he snapped. Frankie sat down slowly, his eyes betraying his anger. "Very soon you will be killed," he said softly. "The quickness or lengthiness of your dying will be largely determined by the civility of your tongue. A civil tongue answers questions with the right answers. Now, shall we commence asking questions?" Dana stepped forward suddenly, her cheeks flushed. "We don't have the words to express ourselves, we can't tell you in words what we must," she said softly. "But music is a language even you can understand. We could tell you what we want, in music -- " Frankie scowled. He knew the magic of this music, he had heard of the witchcraft these weak chicken-people could weave, of their strange, magic power to steal men's minds from them, to make them like children before wolves. Yet he had never heard that music, with his own ears -- he looked up at them, his eyes strangely bright. "You know I cannot listen to your music," he growled. "It's forbidden, even you should know that. How dare you propose -- " "But this is different music -- " Dana's eyes widened suddenly, and she threw an excited glance at her husband. "Our music is beautiful, wonderful to hear. If you could only hear it -- " "Never." The man looked away, a little light of indecision in his eyes. "Your music is forbidden, poisonous -- " Her smile was like sweet wine, a smile that worked into the Hunter's mind like a gentle, lazy drug. "But you are the leader here," she said. "And forbidden pleasures are so much sweeter -- " Frankie's eyes were on hers, fascinated. Slowly, with a graceful movement, she drew the gleaming thought-sensitive stone from her clothing. It glowed in the room with a pearly luminescence, and she saw the man's eyes turning to it, drawn as if by magic. Then he shook his head, and a cruel smile played about his mouth. He motioned toward the stone. "All right," he said mockingly. "Show me your precious music." Like a tinkle of glass breaking in a well, the stone flashed its fiery light in the room. Little swirls of music floated suddenly into the barren stillness of the room. Frankie tensed, a chill running up his spine, unable to draw his eyes from the gleaming jewel. And then the music was there in the room, rising in its glorious beauty like an overwith strange and wonderful images. The stone shimmered and grew, and took the form of dancing clouds of light, swirling with the music as it rose. Suddenly Frankie felt his mind groping toward the music, trying desperately to reach into the heart of it, to become part of it. And Ravdin and Dana stood there, trancelike, staring transfixed at the gleaming center of light, forcing their joined minds into the crashing, majestic chords as the song lifted from the depths of oblivion to the heights of glory in the old, old song of their people -- A song of majesty, and strength, and dignity. A song of love, of aspiration, a song of achievement. A song of peoples driven by ancient fears across the eons of space, seeking only peace, seeking love, even the love of those who drove them. Frankie heard the music, and could not comprehend, for his mind could not catch the chords, the true overtones of that glorious music, but he felt the strangeness in the pangs of fear which groped through his mind, cringing from the wonderful strains, dazzled by the dancing light. And then he was staring at the couple, wide-eyed, trembling. The authority was gone from his face for the barest instant, the cruelty was gone, the avarice, the sardonic mockery. For the briefest moment his cold grey eyes grew incredibly tender with a sudden ancient, long-forgotten longing, crying at last to be heard -- And then, with an animal scream, he was stumbling into the midst of the light, lashing out wildly into the heart of its shimmering stone with a roar into a crashing, ear-splitting cacophony against the cold steel bulkhead. He stood, his whole body shaking, eyes blazing with fear and anger, bitter hatred sparking from his gleaming eyes as he turned on Ravdin and Dana, his voice a raging storm of hatred in the dying strains of the music. "Spies! You thought you could steal my mind away, make me forget my duty, make me listen to your rotten, poisonous noise! Well, you failed, do you hear? I didn't hear it, I didn't listen, I didn't! I'll hunt you down as my fathers hunted you down. I'll bring my people their vengeance and glory, and then your music will be dead!" He turned to the guards, wildly, his hands still trembling. "Take them out! Whip them, burn them, do anything! But find out where their people have gone. Find out! Music ! We'll take the music from them, once and for all " horrible. Their minds had no concept of such horror, such insidious, racking pain. The burning lights, the questions screamed in their ears, Frankie's vicious eyes burning in bitter frustrated hatred, and their own screams, rising with each question they would not answer, rising into hideous rasps until their throats were scorched and they could no longer scream. And then they reached the limit, and almost at the same instant they muttered the hoarse words that could deliver them. No words that Frankie could hear, but the words that could blank out their minds like a wet sponge over slate. The hypnotic key clicked into the lock of their minds, and their screams died in their throats. Then their eyes widened stupidly as their memories died in their brains. Frankie stared at them, and knew instantly what they had done, a technique of total memory obliteration known and dreaded for so many thousand years that history could not remember. And then, as his prey stood mindless before him, he let out one hoarse, agonized scream, and flew into a terrible, roaring, flailing rage of frustration and defeat. But he did not kill them. They were left on a cold stone ledge, blinking dumbly at each other as the Hunter's ships rose, one by one, and vanished like fireflies in the dark night sky. Naked, they sat alone. They knew no words, no music, nothing. And they did not know that in the departing ships the seed was planted. For Frankie had heard the music, he had seen the beauty of his enemies for that brief instant, and in that instant they had become less his enemies. Though he hated them now, the tiny, tiny seed of doubt had been planted. The seed would grow. The two sat dumbly, shivering. Far in the distance a beast roared against the heavy night, and a light rain began to fall. The two sat naked, the rain soaking their skin and hair, and still they sat. Then one of them grunted and moved into the dry darkness of the cave. Deep within him some instinct spoke, warned him to fear the roar of the animal in the distance. Blinking dully, the woman crept into the cave after him. Three thoughts alone filled their empty minds. Not thoughts of Nehmon and his people -- to them, Nehmon had never existed, forgotten as completely as if he had never been. No thoughts of the Hunter, either, nor of his unheard-of mercy in leaving them their lives -- lives of memoryless oblivion, like animals in this green Jungle-land, but life -- Only three thoughts filled their minds : It was raining. They were hungry. The saber-tooth was wandering tonight. They never knew that the link had been forged. and MacCullogh heard him mutter just before he disappeared altogether, "I will, if I ever see her again!" MacCulloch turned to stare at the platform and Decker turned to follow his gaze. A sudden dizziness overcame them both and there was a slight haze about the auditorium. When it cleared, the podium was empty. Mrs. Johns-Hayes was gone as if she had never been. "My God!," the professor gasped. "I was afraid something like this might happen. He must have married the other girl." "I suppose," Decker said quietly, "that we should consider ourselves lucky that he didn't decide to go back to Pennsylvania." His voice broke off and he wondered what he had been saying. He looked up at the speakers' platform trying to remember why he should think it strange that it was draped in Union Jacks and that Lady ApplebySimpkin should be saying, "And now, my dears, I know that all of you, as Loyal Daughters of the British Empire will be happy to know..." he is convinced by the hypnotist's suggestions that the bystander is a hated enemy. Normally a woman will not undress when such a suggestion is made by the hypnotist, but if she first be convinced she is alone, it is a different matter. Drugs have been discovered, which in properly controlled doses, create practically all the symptoms of such mental diseases as schizophrenia. All in all, there are many new and super-sharp weapons appearing in the armory of the modern witch-doctor. One need not cite such extreme examples as Communist brain washing and the thought control of the police state to make the point that the whole idea of thought control is as disgusting as those murals showing the enemies of the Aztecs being led around by cords inserted through holes drilled in their noses. Yet, nose-ring or not, inserted radio or not, the controlled human brain is a problem that has been greatly accentuated in the last few years. There is no defense against the misuse of thought control except constant and intelligent watchfulness by everyone of us. So, even while you're reading this magazine, watch out! Personalities in Science Nature and Nature's Laws lay hid in night, God said, "Let Newton be!" and there was light. -- Pope. discoveries mean to us, let us look back a little into the minds of the men of several centuries ago. In those days they recognized a certain order of things beneath nature's confusion -- such as the fact that the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, that summer and winter and day and night follow one another, that objects always fall to the ground when released in mid-air. But all these things were accepted without explanation. The nature of light, heat, sound and electricity were unknown; chemistry was still befogged with alchemy, and astronomy with astrology. The farthest outposts were the discoveries of Galileo and Keppler in astronomy, mechanics and optics. Such was the intellectual world into which Isaac Newton was born on Christmas morn in the year # in Wool tonshire, England. Until he made the momentous decision that he would beat the school bully both mentally and physically, he was an extremely poor student. His interests lay in inventing clever devices rather than in the study of Greek and Latin. Among his childhood inventions were such things as a small windmill that would grind wheat and corn, a water clock run by the force of dropping water, a sundial, which still stands today on the wall of the house in which he was born, and very practical doll's house furniture. from school to help his widowed mother run the farm. He spent so much time at reading that he was of absolutely no use on the homestead at all and it was decided that he be sent to the University. Here he was a profound student and an excellent scientist, so eager to learn that he often read ahead on his own hook and completely astonished his teachers by knowing his subject fully and completely before the school year had really started. His devotion to the study of mathematics led him to discover a new method of calculus -- or, as he called it, fluxions -- which was to prove invaluable and was later to enable him to prove his law of gravitation. A curious sidelight on this particular discovery is that the great Leibnitz seems to have discovered this same method at about the same time; and publication by Newton was met with bitterness by the German who accused Newton of having stolen the idea from him. The controversy raged all their lives and had such a deep effect on Newton that he became extremely reluctant about publishing his findings. He became so sensitive to criticism that his friends had to beg him to publish his work. Writing to a friend, he said, "I see that a man must either resolve to put out nothing new, or to become a slave to defend it." The story of the apple is one that every school child learns long before he really understands what gravity means. As a test to prove his theory, Newton calculated the orbit of the moon, and the motion as he figured it agreed "pretty nearly" with the known facts. But to him "pretty nearly" was as bad as not at all -- and since he could go no further with it at the time, he laid gravitation aside for a while. Now he began to tinker with light and color. By # he demonstrated the compound character of light and the fact that color resides not in the object, but in the light itself. Newton explained light by the corpuscular theory -- that light is caused by a stream of minute particles given off at a high velocity by a luminous body. This was later rejected by scientists as the one place where Newton really had gone wrong. The undulatory theory, in which light traveled in waves, became the accepted theory. But since the discovery of radium and radioactivity have proved the existence of minute particles moving at high speeds, we're not so sure now that he was completely wrong on this point. In #, the astronomer Halley stumbled on the fact that Newton had (after seven years of inactivity on the subject) picked up his theory of gravitation again. That he had in fact worked out in solitude the principle of his theory. He had satisfied himself and with his usual reticence about "advertising" had absolutely no desire to tell the world about it. Halley nagged and begged and pleaded until Newton finally set down the elements of his findings in his "Principia." It is said there weren't # men in Europe able to understand this book at the time of its publication in #. facet of the personality that was Isaac Newton came to the fore. Through the despotic meddling of King James II, who desired to bring Catholicism into power in England, force was brought against the University of Cambridge to grant a degree to a monk of extremely low capabilities. The university refused. When King James threatened to close the school, Newton was called from his studies to lend his abilities and prestige to a committee that had been formed to combat this encroachment. His activities in this cause resulted in his election to a seat in Parliament, which he held for two years. While he held the seat he was a keen and active participant in the promotion of public welfare and used it to seek official encouragement for inventors and young men of science. The development of the chronometer devised by John Harrison was largely due to his generous interest and inspiration. In # he was appointed warden of the mint, being regarded as particularly suited to the post, not only because of his reputation as a mathematician, but especially as a metallurgist because of his many experiments with alloys for making telescope mirrors. A reformation in coinage was taking place at the time and Newton was able to be particularly helpful. Two years later he was made Master of the Mint, which position he held for the rest of his life and which assured him a comfortable old age. This shorter than average, rather stout little man hardly seemed to have stature enough to be prepossessing, yet he stood a giant among men dedicated to scientific investigation. itation has been questioned. Einstein has rejected his explanation, though not the fact of its operation. But all science admits that the Englishman laid the foundations on which Einstein built his theory of relativity. The "Principia" has been called the greatest single contribution to science ever made by one man. It established the ideas of mass and force, the principal of mechanics of the heavenly bodies and the science of theoretical mechanics as it exists today. Newton's improved methods of calculation placed knowledge and achievement on a basis of mathematical precision. The spectrum analysis of white light paved the way for a host of useful optical discoveries and inventions. He originated the mathematical basis for all of modern physics. For isolated facts he substituted a rule of law. He invented the first reflector telescope and widened the scope of the entire Universe for us. With these universal laws Newton brought order into chaos, knowledge out of superstition. After being knighted, Isaac was able to retire and continue his work with more ease -- if a man such as he ever could take things easy. A hackney, three beautiful horses and a home presided over by a gay and charming sister provided all the ease he wanted. Despite criticism of his "notions, # he had literally hundreds of friends. He was charming, witty and serene -- and calm beyond belief. With all this he was so modest that he never considered himself at all important in the field of science -- he preferred to think of himself as the eternal "tinkerer." Fie always maintained that his achievements were those of " -- a little boy picking up a few pebbles on the beach; while all around lay the boundless sea of undiscovered knowledge." -- epw Man knows he is the forerunner of a finer and more perfect race; and his pride in that fact should be great enough to overshadow the disappointments and hardships of the present. Pierre du Nouy He was something out of a nightmare but his music was straight from heaven. He was a ragged little man out of a hole but he was money in the bank to Stanley's four-piece combo. He was -- whoops !... By Edward W. Ludwig Illustration by Kelly Freas night at The Space Room . If you've seen any recent Martian travel folders, you know the place: "A picturesque oasis of old Martian charm, situated on the beauteous Grand Canal in the heart of Marsport. Only half a mile from historic Chandler Field, landing site of the first Martian expedition nearly fifty years ago in #. A visitor to the hotel, lunch room or cocktail lounge will thrill at the sight of hardy space pioneers mingling side by side with colorful Martian tribesmen. An evening at The Space Room is an amazing, unforgettable experience." Of course, the folders neglect to add that the most amazing aspect is the scent of the Canal's stagnant water -- and that the most unforgettable experience is seeing the "rootof-all-evil" evaporate from your pocketbook like snow from the Great Red Desert. We were sitting on the bandstand of the candle-lit cocktail lounge. Me -- Jimmie Stanley -- and my four-piece combo. Maybe you've seen our motto back on Earth: "The Hottest Music This Side of Mercury." But there weren't four of us tonight. Only three. Ziggy, our bass fiddle man, had nearly sliced off two fingers while opening a can of Saturnian ice-fish, thus decreasing the number of our personnel by a tragic twenty-five per cent. Which was why Ke-teeli, our boss, was descending upon us with all the grace of an enraged Venusian vinosaur. "Where ees museek?" he shrilled in his nasal tenor. He was almost skeleton thin, like most Martians, and so tall that if he fell down he'd be half way home. I gulped. "Our bass man can't be here, but we've called the Marsport local for another. He'll be here any minute." Ke-teeli, sometimes referred to as Goon-Face and The Eye, leered coldly down at me from his eightfoot-three. His eyes were like black needle points set deep in a mask of dry, ancient, reddish leather. "Ees no feedle man, ees no job," he squeaked. I sighed. This was the week our contract ended. Goon-Face had displayed little enough enthusiasm for our music as it was. His comments were either, "Ees too loud, too fast," or "Ees too slow, too soft." The real cause of his concern being, I suspected, the infrequency with which his cash register tinkled. "But," I added, "even if the new man doesn't come, we're still here. We'll play for you." I glanced at the conglomeration of uniformed spacemen, white-suited tourists, and loin-clothed natives who sat at ancient stone tables. "You wouldn't want to disappoint your customers, would you?" Ke-teeli snorted. "Maybe ees better dey be deesappointed. Ees better no museek den bad museek." Fat Boy, our clarinetist who doubles on Martian horn-harp, made a feeble attempt at optimism. "Don't worry, Mr. Ke-teeli. That new bass man will be here." "Sure," said Hammer-Head, our red-haired vibro-drummer. "I think I hear him coming now." Suspiciously, Ke-teeli eyed the entrance. There was only silence. His naked, parchment-like chest swelled as if it were an expanding balloon. "Five meenutes!" he shrieked. "Eef no feedle, den you go!" And he whirled away. We waited. Fat Boy's two hundred and eighty-odd pounds were drooped over his chair like the blubber of an exhausted, beach-stranded whale. "Well," he muttered, "there's always the uranium pits of Neptune. Course, you don't live more than five years there -- " "Maybe we could make it back to Lunar City," suggested HammerHead. "Using what for fare?" I asked. "Your brains?" Hammer-Head groaned. "No. I guess it'll have to be the black pits of Neptune. The home of washedup interplanetary musicians. It's too bad. We're so young, too." The seconds swept by. Ke-teeli was casting his razor-edged glare in our direction. I brushed the chewed finger nails from the keyboard of my electronic piano. Then it happened. Space Room came a thumping and a grating and a banging. Suddenly, sweeping across the dance floor like a cold wind, was a bass fiddle, an enormous black monstrosity, a refugee from a pawnbroker's attic. It was queerly shaped. It was too tall, too wide. It was more like a monstrous, midnight-black hourglass than a bass. The fiddle was not unaccompanied as I'd first imagined. Behind it, streaking over the floor in a waltz of agony, was a little guy, an animated matchstick with a flat, broad face that seemed to have been compressed in a vice. His sandcolored mop of hair reminded me of a field of dry grass, the long strands forming loops that flanked the sides of his face. His pale blue eyes were watery, like twin pools of fog. His tightfitting suit, as black as the bass, was something off a park bench. It was impossible to guess his age. He could have been anywhere between twenty and forty. The bass thumped down upon the bandstand. "Hello," he puffed. "I'm John Smith, from the Marsport union." He spoke shrilly and rapidly, as if anxious to conclude the routine of introductions. "I'm sorry I'm late, but I was working on my plan." A moment's silence. "Your plan?" I echoed at last. "How to get back home," he snapped as if I should have known it already. Hummm, I thought. My gaze turned to the dance floor. Goon-Face had his eyes on us, and they were as cold as six Indians going South. "We'll talk about your plan at intermission," I said, shivering. "Now, we'd better start playing. John, do you know On An Asteroid With You ? # "I know everything said John Smith. I turned to my piano with a shudder. I didn't dare look at that horrible fiddle again. I didn't dare tones might emerge from its ancient depths. And I didn't dare look again at the second monstrosity, the one named John Smith. I closed my eyes and plunged into a four-bar intro. Hammer-Head joined in on vibro-drums and Fat Boy on clarinet, and then -- My eyes burst open. A shiver coursed down my spine like gigantic mice feet. The tones that surged from that monstrous bass were ecstatic. They were out of a jazzman's Heaven. They were great rolling clouds that seemed to envelop the entire universe with their vibrance. They held a depth and a volume and a richness that were astounding, that were like no others I'd ever heard. First they went Boom-de-boomde-boom-de-boom , and then, boomde-deboomde-deboomde-deboom , just like the tones of all bass fiddles. But there was something else, too. There were overtones, so that John wasn't just playing a single note, but a whole chord with each beat. And the fullness, the depth of those incredible chords actually set my blood tingling. I could feel the tingling just as one can feel the vibration of a plucked guitar string. I glanced at the cash customers. They looked like weary warriors getting their first glimpse of Valhalla. Gap-jawed and wide-eyed, they seemed in a kind of ecstatic hypnosis. Even the silent, blandfaced Martians stopped sipping their wine-syrup and nodded their dark heads in time with the rhythm. I looked at The Eye. The transformation of his gaunt features was miraculous. Shadows of gloom dissolved and were replaced by a black-toothed, crescent-shaped smile of delight. His eyes shone like those of a kid seeing Santa Claus. We finished On An Asteroid With You, modulated into Sweet Sally from Saturn and finished with Tighten Your Lips on Titan . We waited for the applause of of the Martians to die down. Then I turned to John and his fiddle. "If I didn't hear it," I gasped, "I wouldn't believe it!" "And the fiddle's so old, too!" added Hammer-Head who, although sober, seemed quite drunk. "Old?" said John Smith. "Of course it's old. It's over five thousand years old. I was lucky to find it in a pawnshop. Only it's not a fiddle but a Zloomph. This is the only one in existence." He patted the thing tenderly. "I tried the hole in it but it isn't the right one." I wondered what the hell he was talking about. I studied the black, mirror-like wood. The aperture in the vesonator was like that of any bass fiddle. "Isn't right for what?" I had to ask. He turned his sad eyes to me. "For going home," he said. Hummm, I thought. John knew them all, from the latest pop melodies to a swing version of the classic Rhapsody of The Stars. He was a quiet guy during the next couple of hours, and getting more than a few words from him seemed as hard as extracting a tooth. He'd stand by his fiddle -- I mean, his Zloomph -- with a dreamy expression in those watery eyes, staring at nothing. But after one number he studied Fat Boy's clarinet for a moment. "Nice clarinet," he mused. "Has an unusual hole in the front." Fat Boy scratched the back of his head. "You -- you mean here? Where the music comes out?" John Smith nodded. "Unusual." Hummm, I thought again. Awhile later I caught him eyeing my piano keyboard. "What's the matter, John?" He pointed. "Oh, there," I said. "A cigarette fell out of my ashtray, burnt a hole in the key. If The Eye sees it, he'll swear at me in seven languages." "Even there," he said softly, "even there... There was no doubt about it. John Smith was peculiar, but he was the best bass man this side of a musician's Nirvana. It didn't take a genius to figure out our situation. Item one: GoonFace's countenance had evidenced an excellent imitation of Mephistopheles before John began to play. Item two: Goon-Face had beamed like a kitten with a quart of cream after John began to play. Conclusion : If we wanted to keep eating, we'd have to persuade John Smith to join our combo. At intermission I said, "How about a drink, John? Maybe a shot of wine-syrup?" He shook his head. "Then maybe a Venusian fizz?" His grunt was negative. "Then some old-fashioned beer?" He smiled. "Yes, I like beer." I escorted him to the bar and assisted him in his arduous climb onto a stool. "John," I ventured after he'd taken an experimental sip, "where have you been hiding? A guy like you should be playing every night." John yawned. "Just got here. Figured I might need some money so I went to the union. Then I worked on my plan." "Then you need a job. How about playing with us steady? We like your style a lot." He made a long, low humming sound which I interpreted as an expression of intense concentration. "I don't know," he finally drawled. "It'd be a steady job, John." Inspiration struck me. "And listen, I have an apartment. It's got everything, solar shower, automatic chef, 'copter landing -- if we ever get a 'copter. Plenty of room there for two people. You can stay with me and it won't cost you a cent. And we'll even pay you over union wages." His watery gaze wandered lazily to the bar mirror, down to the glittering array of bottles and then out to the dance floor. He yawned again and spoke slowly, as if each word were a leaden weight cast reluctantly from his tongue : "No, I don't... care much... about playing." "What do you like to do, John?" His string-bean of a body stiffened. "I like to study ancient history... and I must work on my plan." Oh Lord, that plan again! I took a deep breath. "Tell me about it, John. It must be interesting." He made queer clicking noises with his mouth that reminded me of a mechanical toy being wound into motion. "The whole foundation of this or any other culture is based on the history of all the time dimensions, each interwoven with the other, throughout the ages. And the holes provide a means of studying all of it first hand." Oh, oh, I thought. But you still have to eat . Remember , you still have to eat. "Trouble is," he went on, "there are so many holes in this universe." "Holes?" I kept a straight face. "Certainly. Look around you. All you see is holes. These beer bottles are just holes surrounded by glass. The doors and windows -- they're holes in walls. The mine tunnels make a network of holes under the desert. Gaves are holes, animals live in holes, our faces have holes, I winced and thought, humor him because you gotta eat, you gotta eat. His voice trembled with emotion. "Why, they're everywhere. They're in pots and pans, in pipes, in rocket jets, in bumpy roads. There are buttonholes and well holes, and shoelace holes. There are doughnut holes and stocking holes and woodpecker holes and cheese holes. Oceans lie in holes in the earth, and rivers and canals and valleys. The craters of the Moon are holes. Everything is -- " "But, John," I said patiently as as possible, "what have these holes got to do with you?" He glowered at me as if I were unworthy of such a confidence. "What have they to do with me?" he shrilled. "I can't find the right one -- that's what!" I closed my eyes. "Which particular hole are you looking for, John?" He was speaking rapidly again now. "I was hurrying back to the University with the Zloomph to prove a point of ancient history to those fools. They don't believe that instruments which make music actually existed before the tapes! It was dark -- and some fool researcher had forgotten to set a force-field over the hole -- I fell through." I closed my eyes. "Now wait a minute. Did you drop something, lose it in the hole -- is that why you have to find it?" "Oh I didn't lose anything important," he snapped, "just my own time dimension. And if I don't get back they will think I couldn't prove my theory, that I'm ashamed to come back, and I'll be discredited." His chest sagged for an instant. Then he straightened. "But there's still time for my plan to work out -- with the relative difference taken into account. Only I get so tired just thinking about it." "Yes, I can see where thinking about it would tire any one." He nodded. "But it can't be too far away." "I'd like to hear more about it," I said. "But if you're not going to play with us -- " "Oh, I'll play with you," he beamed. "I can talk to you. You understand." Thank heaven! days. During those seventytwo golden hours the melodious tinkling of The Eye's cash register was as constant as that of Santa's sleigh bells. John became the hero of tourists, spacemen, and Martians, but nevertheless he remained stubbornly aloof. He was quiet, moody, playing his Zloomph automatically. He'd reveal definite indications of belonging to Homo Sapiens only when drinking beer and talking about his holes. Goon-Face was still cautious. "Contract?" he wheezed. "Maybe. We see. Eef feedleman stay, we have contract. He stay, yes?" "Oh, sure," I said. "He'll stay -- just as long as you want him." "Den he sign contract, too. No beeg feedle, no contract." "Sure. We'll get him to sign it." I laughed hollowly. "Don't worry, Mr. Ke-teeli." Just a few minutes later tragedy struck. A reporter from the Marsport Times ambled into interview the Man of The Hour. The interview, unfortunately, was conducted over the bar and accompanied by a generous guzzling of beer. Fat Boy, Hammer-Head and I watched from a table. Knowing John as we did, a silent prayer was in our eyes. "This is the first time he's talked to anybody," Fat Boy breathed. "I -- I'm scared. "Nothing can happen," I said, optimistically. "This'll be good publicity." We watched. John murmured something. The reporter, a paunchy, balding man, scribbled furiously in his notebook. John yawned, muttered something else. The reporter continued to scribble. John sipped beer. His eyes brightened, and he began to talk more rapidly. The reporter frowned, stopped writing, and studied John curiously. John finished his first beer, started on his second. His eyes were wild, and he was talking more and more rapidly. "He's doing it," Hammer-Head groaned. "He's telling him!" I rose swiftly. "We better get over there. We should have known better -- " We were too late. The reporter had already slapped on his hat and was striding to the exit. John turned to us, dazed, his enthusiasm vanishing like air from a punctured balloon. "He wouldn't listen," he said, weakly. "I tried to tell him, but he said he'd come back when I'm sober. I'm sober now. So I quit. I've got to find my hole." I patted him on the back. "No, John, we'll help you. Don't quit. We'll -- well, we'll help you." "We're working on a plan, too," said Fat Boy in a burst of inspiration. "We're going to make a more scientific approach." "How?" John asked. Fat Boy gulped. "Just wait another day," I said. "We'll have it worked out. Just be patient another day. You can't leave now, not after all your work." "No, I guess not," he sighed. "I'll stay -- until tomorrow." through my brain like a teasing spider: What can we do to make him stay ? What can we tell him? What, what, what? Unable to sleep the next morning, I left John to his snoring and went for an aspirin and black coffee. All the possible schemes were drumming through my mind : finding an Earth blonde to capture John's interest, having him electrohypnotized, breaking his leg, forging a letter from this mythical university telling him his theory was proved valid and for him to take a nice long vacation now. He was a screwball about holes and force fields and dimensional worlds but for that music of his I'd baby him the rest of his life. It was early afternoon when I trudged back to my apartment. John was squatting on the living room floor, surrounded by a forest of empty beer bottles. His eyes were bulging, his hair was even wilder than usual, and he was swaying. "John!" I cried. "You're drunk!" His watery eyes squinted at me. "No, not drunk. Just scared. I'm awful scared!" "But you mustn't be scared. That reporter was just stupid. We'll help you with your theory." His body trembled. "No, it isn't that. It isn't the reporter." "Then what is it, John?" "It's my body. It's -- " "Yes, what about your body? Are you sick?"  His face was white with terror. "No, my -- my body's full of holes. Suppose it's one of those holes! How will I get back if it is?" He rose and staggered to his Zloomph , clutching it as though it were somehow a source of strength and consolation. I patted him gingerly on the arm. "Now John. You've just had too much beer, that's all. Let's go out and get some air and some strong black coffee. G'mon now." We staggered out into the morning darkness, the three of us. John, the Zloomph , and I. I was hanging on to him trying to see around and over and even under the Zloomph -- steering by a sort of radar-like sixth sense. The street lights on Marsport are pretty dim compared to Earthside. I didn't see the open manhole that the workmen had figured would be all right at that time of night. It gets pretty damned cold around #: A.M. of a Martian morning, and I guess the men were warming up with a little nip at the bar across the street. Then -- he was gone. John just slipped out of my grasp -- Zloomph and all -- and was gone -- completely and irrevocably gone. I even risked a broken neck and jumped in the manhole after him. Nothing -- nothing but the smell of ozone and an echo bouncing crazily off the walls of the conduit. " -- is it. -- is it. -- is it. -- is it." John Smith was gone, so utterly and completely and tragically gone it was as if he'd never existed... Tonight is our last night at The Space Room. Goon-Face is scowling again with the icy fury of a Plutonian monsoon. As Goon-Face has said, "No beeg feedle, no contract." Without John, we're notes in a lost chord. We've searched everything, in hospitals, morgues, jails, night clubs, hotels. We've hounded spaceports and 'copter terminals. Nowhere, nowhere is John Smith. Ziggy, whose two fingers have healed, has already bowed to what seems inevitable. He's signed up for that trip to Neptune's uranium pits. There's plenty of room for more volunteers, he tells us. But I spend my time cussing the guy who forgot to set the force field at the other end of the hole and let John and his Zloomph back into his own time dimension. I cuss harder when I think how we were robbed of the best bass player in the galaxy. And without a corpus delecti we can't even sue the city. What Is Your Science I.Q.? the lay public, now every science fiction aficionado, including the kids who love space suits and ray guns, knows about them. The intrepid reader is also learning about a lot of other things in and out of this world -- both fact-wise and fiction-wise. See how many of the questions below you can answer. Then check your score on page # and see how wise you are in the ways of science and science fiction. Counting # for each correct answer, here's how you rate: # -- good; # -- very good; # -- excellent. #. What is the name of the process that uses two or more combined atoms to release energy. #. What is the name of the man who was the first to successfully smash the atom? #. When we speak of a thickly clustered group of stars, what word do we use to describe it? #. What are the high frequency rays produced beyond the Earth's atmosphere called? #. What is the science fiction term used to describe an unhumanoid alien being? #. We know that Saturn has rings, but how many moons has it? #. What is the term used to refer to the growing of food in chemical compounds. #. What American is credited with the discovery of "heavy water"? #. The historical and psychological evolution of words and language is called ? #. Which of the planets is the smallest? #. What is the term we use to describe abilities that seem to go beyond that of the five known senses? #. What do we call a luminous heavenly body that has a tail and follows a fixed orbit around the sun? #. Gamma rays are waves of pure energy. #. The Great Nebula is a mass of luminous gas in the constellation Orion than can be seen with the naked eye. #. Wolf I is a fixed star. #. Light travels at a speed of # miles per minute. #. An android is a mechanical device made to resemble a man. #. When two dissimilar organisms live together in close union it is called symbiosis. #. Plutonium is a natural element found in the earth. #. A parsec is a unit of astronomical length equal to # #. Parthenogenesis is a process of reproduction through union of a sperm and an ovum. #. An asteroid is a small planet with wandering or orbital tendencies. #. Mars has # moons. #. Radioactivity is caused by a process of disintegration in an atom that is unstable. #. The atmospheric pressure on earth is about # pounds per square foot. #. Mare Crisium is the name astronomers have given to the largest crater of the moon visible to the naked eye. #. A light year is equal to # miles. Sun Cookery -- Indian scientists have perfected a food cooker that utilizes solar energy as fuel. With a mirror four feet wide, this cooker weighs about thirty pounds and is more than adequate for an average size family. It sells for about # -- and is being manufactured at the rate of about # per month. Sounds good, but we'll hang onto our old gas stove for the rainy season. Mail Rockets -- What the postage will cost is anybody's guess, but rocket experts are predicting that by # we will be receiving first class mail by rockets. Advances in the science of guided missiles indicate that a letter posted in New York (E.S.T.) will arrive approximately # minutes later in San Francisco (P.S.T.) When this time is halved, which they will undoubtedly do, your friend can read your letter in San Francisco before you write it in New York! Figure it out. T.V. Bomb Demolition -- At the Army Ordnance Depot in Oregon, bombs of all types are now disassembled safely with the aid of a T.V. camera. The operator who works the motor driven disassembling machine sits in a bomb-proof shelter and watches the entire operation on a receiver. The camera is focused on all moving parts and the operator can stop work immediately after noting any signs of danger. Safe but it probably tops all other shows for suspense effects! X-Ray 'Tooth-picks" -- Wooden applicator sticks with radioactive cesium for the "heads" will replace bulky X-ray equipment now used by dentists. This "tooth-pick" held against the jaw or tooth, either inside or outside the mouth, will produce a picture on an X-ray film packet held in the appropriate position. Missile "Brains" -- Two small but high speed computers, lightweight enough for air-borne control of guided missiles, were revealed recently. Nine different devices feed information into the computers. After digesting the information and solving the control problems, the "brain" takes over by controlling the flight mechanism. The actual use to which this computer will be put is still a military secret. Skull "Pie" -- Skull surgeons will now be required to be "bakers" too. A Washington doctor has perfected a plastic dough which, when kneaded and rolled, can be molded into the skull depression to replace metal plates now used for such repairs. More form-fitting and a better insulator than metal, this plastic won't perforate the skin and is far less expensive than metal. The "pie" is mixed, fitted, hardened and sterilized right in the operating room. Less than twenty minutes are required for the whole process. Fish "Radar" -- A new deep-sea echo-sounding device which can sweep back and forth as well as straight down and so "see' # in any direction will soon take most of the guesswork out of commercial fishing. With this gadget fishermen can locate a school of fish, note it's size, direction and speed and lower nets before they reach the vicinity. A pocket-sized edition would help eliminate all those tales of "the one that got away". Prospecting '# Style -- Using mass production techniques that would daze a forty-niner, the government's uranium prospecting doesn't guarantee results but, rather, supplies uranium-hunters with leads to potential deposits, leaving it to individuals to work the areas over. The basic technique is for a low flying plane carrying a scintillation detector -- a sort of super Geiger counter -- to fly over measured strips in a given area. Any reaction on the detector is marked on a paper tape and a #-mm. camera mounted on the tail of the plane maps the area at the same time. The air prospectors work in teams, with a D.C. #, flying at about # feet, and mapping up to # square miles a day. Then, the second crew, flying a little Piper Cub, flys over the area at a much lower altitude to get more accurate readings. The aerial maps gathered in this way, with the potential deposits clearly marked, are then posted in offices of the Department of the Interior and Atomic Energy Commission. That the program has been helpful is indicated by the A.E.C. report that three-fourths of the newly opened uranium deposits in the Black Hills of South Dakota have been located by this aerial exploration method. With payment of # a pound for ore containing ## of I per cent uranium to # a pound for ## of I per cent, plus the extra bonus on delivery to the A.E.C., there is a host of small-time prospectors hoping to strike it rich in this government sponsored prospecting business. Flying Blinds -- "Flying Venetian blinds" are likely to pop up in the news soon. Army tests of a plane with slatted wings have proved extremely promising. With such equipment a fast transport can take off vertically from a "pocket handkerchief" field. Robot Arms -- The "little wonder robot arm" that can bake a cake and pour your tea is right around the corner. It exists right now, but a gross weight of # tons makes it a little impractical. Patience Ladies, the day will come. nest Rutherford. # -- Galaxy. # -- # -- Hydroponics. # -- Harold Urey. # -- Semantics. # -- Mercury. #I -- Extra sensory perception (esp.). # -- Comet. # -- False (comet). # -- False (per second). # -- True. # -- True. # -- False (man made). # -- True. #. -- False (reproduction through a single unfertilized egg). # -- True. #. -- False (two). # -- True. # -- False (per square inch). # -- True. # -- True. Shades of Dick Tracy -- The wrist radio is coming closer and closer for everybody's use. The latest model uses five transistors instead of vacuum tubes, and can pick up broadcasts from as far away as # miles. Underwater "Mountain Climbing" -- Mountaineers of the future may be climbing underwater mountains. Recent ocean surveys show canyons as deep as Grand Canyon and mountains of gigantic proportions under the Pacific Ocean. Insects Beware! -- Those insects that have learned to resist D.D.T. take warning. A new insecticide that is # times more powerful, yet non poisonous to man or animals, has been developed. We're not licked yet. Salt-Water Fresh Water -- Residents in low-rainfall areas won't have to worry too much about water conservation in the future. Heat from atomic fuels is being visualwater from the ocean in quantities huge enough to serve every need. Bomb-Radiation-Proof Concrete -- If contractors should receive standing orders to mix barite with concrete, there will be an excellent reason. Tests have shown that such a combination helps buildings withstand bomb blasts and protects the occupants from radiation. "Shock Treatment" -- Even an electronic brain can become cranky or difficult, and when the computers display such human failings engineers in charge of them treat them much the same way a psychiatrist would treat a human patient with a personality maladjustment. First a rest (a complete stoppage) is prescribed. Then a slow resumption of operation is ordered, quite often this sort of brief "restcure" is all the "cranky" machine may need. If this "vacation" doesn't work, the next step is a shock treatment of sorts. Sometimes a swift kick on the part of the engineer will be "shock" enough. If it isn't, then the kind of treatment now used on stubborn mental cases is used. Just as the application of high voltage electricity often shocks the patient back to normality, so the "brain" often responds to a sudden over-voltage charge, and the mechanism may be set to working again. If all this sort of treatment still doesn't bring about a cure of the balky computer, engineers resort to their version of surgery. This means tearing out one or more parts and repairing or replacing them. Of course, there is an added advantage to this sort of surgery over the human kind, the "patient" needs no post operative care and can go back to the business at hand immediately. stranger to science fiction readers, has written one of those really exciting with exceptionally good science fiction. at a point where they will receive constant sunlight. The entire project hinges on these plants for they will convert the sun's rays into heat and electrical power needed in all construction and maintenance work. The semispherical building in the lower right is a prefabricated shelter unit which will house workmen and scientists until the larger, all-functioning housing unit is completed. (In the July issue: Moon base in operation.)  # jr # Jr l m  L' isj f MM phere, meteors would not burn themselves Out, as the do when striking the Earth, presenting an ever-present and serious menace to operations of men and machinery. Defense would be difficult, as some of these mereors would weigh several tons. The illustration above shows how an avalanche could be started by a sudden bombardment of "cold' meteors Now see inside back cover. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg: The Old Spaceman's Tales  i H imumiii by Ed. M. Clinton, Jr. # by Kenneth O'Hara # by Ed Valigursky IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume # , No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Sired, Buffalo New York. F.ntrred as Second Class Matter at Pott Office. Buffalo, New York. Subscript ion #(I lor # issues in l .#. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues: elsewhere #. Allow foui weeks for change of address. Ail stories appearing in this oiarnrinr are Srtion; any similarity to actual persons it coin. Mental. Not responsible lor unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale June I #th that will someday make space travel possible, it might be a good idea to get yourself a lot of old newspapers and magazines and books -- say about # or # years old -- and read about the fledgling years of aviation. These contemporary accounts might be "ancient history" now, but they were written during the "heat of battle" and they're as exciting to read now as they were then. But let's see just how these dusty chronicles and forgotten heroes hook up with the conquest of space. The Wright Brothers had hardly made their first flight when America became a scene of hell-forleather experiments, wildcat races, air-minded promotions -- and prodigious smack-ups. C. P. Rogers made the first trans-continental flight in # days. It took him seven days to cross New York State alone. and when he landed in Pasadena the only parts left of his original plane were the rudder and the oil pan; everything else had been busted and replaced en route. Then came the First World War and the first test of aviation in combat. The men who flew the "Jennies" of that era were the glamor boys of war fiction and fact. There was Eddie Rickenbacker, ace of the American birdmen; there was Bishop of Canada; there was the fabulous Red Knight of Germany, Baron Von Richtofen and others. And -- there was the man who did more for military aviation in the U.S. than any other figure of his who waged a one-man war with all the brass of the United States Army and Navy in his efforts to get them to accept the fact that air power was the thing of the future. He finally won his battle and he was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor -- both posthumously, ironically enough. Before the peace treaty of the first great war was signed, Captain John Alcock, an Englishman, and Lieutenant Arthur Brown, an American, made the first non-stop trans-Atlantic flight, from Newfoundland to Ireland, # miles in # hours, # minutes. This was on June #, #, and the #'s ushered in an era of barnstorming that took on the ballyhoo and brass of a carnival. Restless, reckless, pilots stunted anywhere they could get a permit or an audience; acrobats performed on the wings and landing gear of planes two or three thousand feet in the air; follies girls went aloft over the Great Lakes for tea; couples got hitched while flying over their home towns or somewhere else. It was the "era of wonderful nonsense" and aviation was using every gimmick in the book to make the public air-minded and convince folks it was safe to travel via plane. set off the emotions and imagination of the world was yet to come. Somehow, to me, it seems that the spark which started aviation on the serious and commercially sound phase of its history came when a lonely pilot in a little singlc-motored monoplane flew the Atlantic. It was on a gray, misty dawn of a May # years ago when Charles Lindbergh, a young mail pilot, lifted "the Spirit of St. Louis" off Roosevelt Field on Long Island and set it down ## hours and # miles later on Le Bourget Field in Paris. A few days before Lindbergh's flight, Nungcsscr and Coli, two Frenchmen, had tried a westward flight and had crashed and been lost in the Atlantic. A couple of weeks afterwards, Clarence Chamberlain flew from New York to Berlin. A few days later Admiral Byrd crashed off the French coast. And the procession was on! Within a few months, Amelia Earhart became the first woman to fly the Atlantic; Costc and Bellonte made the first westward crossing, then there were Charles Kingsford-Smith, "Wrongway" Corrigan and others. Flying the Atlantic became a fever, and after that came the Pacific. Then Post and Gatty flew around the world and Admiral Byrd flew to the South Pole. The young wings of aviation had been tested and they were strong. As we go through the musty racks of newspapers for the Thirties we find that aviation is still a "hogger" of the front pages. On August #, #, all existing records for a transport craft were broken by a Sikorsky seaplane which averaged # miles per hour over a # mile course. There was Jimmy Doolittle and his pile of speed records; and names like Glenn Martin, Alexander P. de Seversky, Howard Hughes, Frank Hawks, Hugo Eckcner, Count Von Zeppelin, Glenn Curtiss and others loomed big in the headlines. The Army and the Navy were fast conquering the Pacific, while somewhere out there Amelia Earhart, Sir Kingsford-Smith and others were lost. made tremendous strides. But there were blunders, too, and the prize blunder, which did national morale no good at all, was made hy the Administration or Congress or somebody in Washington who got mad at the private nirlinps. Without preparation or advance notice the Army was ordered to take care of the airmail. The young pilots, with only a few hours briefing on night flying, knew what they were in for, but they took over and flew the mail in an assortment of ships never intended for the task. They didn't even have proper maintenance for their ships, nor did they have decent facilities for rest or food between flights. And during the winter of #-# they carried the mail, night and day, over strange routes in "peashooters", ob(Continued on page # ) Honath and his fellow arch-doubters did not believe in the Giants, and for this they were cast into Ilell. And when survival depended upon unwavering faith in their beliefs, they saw that there were Giants , after all... By James Blish Illustrated by Paul Orban It is written tl,at after the Giants came to Tellura from the far stars, they abode a while, and looked upon the surface of the land, and found it wanting, and of roil omen. Therefore did they make men to live ahvays in the air and in the sunlight, and in the light of the stars, that he would be reminded of them. And the Giants abode yet a while, and taught men to speak, and to tvrite, and to weave , and to do many things which are needful to do, of which the writings speak. And thereafter they departed to the far stars, saying, Take this world as your ozvn, and though we shall return, fear not, for it is yours. hauled from the nets an hour before the rest of the prisoners, as befitted his role as the arch-doubter of them all. It was not yet dawn, but his captors led him in gTeat bounds through the endless, musky-perfumed orchid gardens, small dark shapes with crooked legs, hunched shoulders, slim hairless tails carried, like his, in concentric spirals, wound clockwise. Behind them sprang Honath on the end of a long tether, timing his leaps by theirs, since any slip would hang him summarily. He would of course be on his way to the surface, some # feet below the orchid gardens, shortly after dawn in any event. But not even the arch-doubter of them all wanted to begin the trip -- not even at the merciful snap-spine end of a tether -- a moment before the law said. Go.  The looping, interwoven network of vines beneath them, each cable as thick through as a man's body, bellied out and down sharply as the leapers reached the edge of the fern-tree forest which surrounded the copse of fan-palms. The whole party stopped before beginning the descent and looked eastward, across the dim bowl. The stars were paling more and more rapidly; only the bright constellation of the Parrot could still be picked out without doubt. "A fine day," one of the guards said, conversationally. "Better to go below on a sunny day than in the rain, purseinakcr." Honath shuddered and said nothing. Of course it was always raining down below in Hell, that much could be seen by a child. Even on sunny days, the endless pinpoint rain of transpiration, from the huntrees, hazed the forest air and soaked the black bog forever. He looked around in the brightening, misty morning. The eastern horizon was black against the limb of the great red sun, which had already risen about a third of its diameter; it was almost time for the small, blue-white, furiously hot consort to follow. All the way to that brink, as to every other horizon, the woven ocean of the treetops flowed gently in long, unbreaking waves, featureless as some smooth oil. Only nearby could the eye break that ocean into its details, into the world as it was: a great, many-tiered network, thickly overgrown with small ferns, with airdrinking orchids, with a thousand varieties of fungi sprouting wherever vine crossed vine and collected a little humus for them, with the vivid parasites sucking sap from the vines, the trees, and even each other. In the ponds of rain-water collected by the closely fitting leaves of the bromelaids, tree-toads and peepers stopped down their hoarse songs dubiously as the light, grew and fell silent one by one. In the trees below the world, the tentative morning screeches of the lizardbirds -- the souls of the damned, or the devils who hunted them, no one was quite sure which -- took up the concert. A small gust of wind whipped out of the hollow above the glade of fan-palms, making the network under the party shift slightly, as if in a loom. Honath gave with it easily, automatically, but one of the smaller vines toward which he had moved one furless hand hissed at him and went pouring away into the darkness beneath -- a chlorophyll-green snake, come up out of the dripping aerial pathways in which it hunted in ancestral gloom, to greet the suns and dry its scales in the quiet morning. Farther below, an astonished monkey, routed out of its bed by the disgusted serpent, sprang into another tree, reeling off ten mortal insults, one after the other, while still in mid-leap. The snake, of course, paid no attention, since it did not speak the language of men ; but the party on the edge of the glade of fan-palms snickered appreciatively. "Bad language they favor below." another of the guards said. "A fit place for you and your blasphemers, pursemakcr. Come now." The tether at Honath's neck twitched, and then his captors were soaring in zig-zag bounds down into the hollow toward the Judgment Seat. He followed, since he had no choice, the tether threatening constantly to foul his arms, legs or tail, and -- worse, far worse -- making his every mortifying movement ungraceful. Above, the Parrot's starry plumes flickered and faded into the general blue. Toward the center of the saucer above the grove, the stitched lcafand-lcathcr houses clustered thickly, bound to the vines themselves, or hanging from an occasional branch too high or too slender to bear the vines. Many of these purses Honath knew well, not only as visitor but as artisan. The finest of them, the inverted flowers which opened automatically as the morning dew bathed them, yet which could be closed tightly and safely around their occupants at dusk by a single draw'-string, were his own design as well as his own handiwork. They had been widely admired and imitated. The reputation that they had given him, too, had helped to bring him to the end of the snap-spine tether. They had given weight to his words among others -- weight enough to make him, at last, the arch-douhtcr, the man who leads the young into blasphemy, the man who questions the Book of Law's. And they had probably helped to win him his passage on the Elevator to Hell. The purses were already opening as the party swung among them. Here and there, sleepy faces blinked out from amid the exfoliating sections, criss-crossed by relaxing lengths of dew-soaked rawhide. Some of the awakening householders recognized Honath, of that he was sure, but none came out to follow the party -- though the villagers should be beginning to drop from the hearts of their stitched flowers like ripe seed-pods by this hour of anv normal day. # # A Judgment was at hand, and they knew it -- and even those who had slept the night in one of Honath's finest houses would not speak for him now. Everyone knew, after all, that Honath did not believe in the Giants. Honath could see the Judgment Seat itself now, a slung chair of woven cane crowned along the back with a row of gigantic mottled orchids. These had supposedly been transplanted there when the chair was made, but no one could remember how old they were; since there were no seasons, there was no particular reason why they should not have been there forever. The Seat itself was at the back of the arena and high above it, but in the gathering light. Honath could make out the white-furred face of the Tribal Spokesman, like a lone silver-and-black pansy among the huge vivid blooms. At the center of the arena proper was the Elevator itself. Honath had seen it often enough, and had himself witnessed Judgments where it was called into use, but he could still hardly believe that he was almost surely to be its next passenger. It consisted of nothing more than a large basket, deep enough so that one would have to leap out of it, and rimmed with thorns to prevent one from leaping back in. Three hempen ropes were tied to its rim, and were then cunningly interwound on a single-drum windlass of wood, which could be turned by two men even when the basket was loaded. The procedure was equally sim le. The condemned man was orced into the basket, and the basket lowered out of sight, until the slackening of the ropes indicated that it had touched the surface. The victim climbed out -- and if he did not, the basket remained below until he starved or until Hell otherwise took care of its own -- and the windlass was rewound. The sentences were for varying periods of time, according to the severity of the crime, but in practical terms this formality was empty. Although the basket was dutifully lowered when the sentence had expired, no one had ever been known to get back into it. Of course, in a world without seasons or moons, and hence without any but an arbitrary year, long periods of time are not easy to count accurately. The basket could arrive thirty or forty days to one side or the other of the proper date. But this was only a technicality, however, for if keeping time was difficult in the attic world it was probably impossible in Hell. Honath's guards tied the free end of his tether to a branch and settled down around him. One abstractedly passed a pine cone to him and he tried to occupy his mind with the business of picking the juicy seeds from it, but somehow they had no flavor. More captives were being brought in now. while the Spokesman watched with glittering black eyes from his high perch. There was Mathild the Forager, shivering as if with ague, the fur down her left side glistening and spiky, as though she had inadvertently overturned a tank plant on herself. After her was brought Alaskon the Navigator, a middle-aged man only a few years younger than Honath himself ; he was tied up next to Honath, where he settled down at once, chewing at a joint of cane with apparent indifference. Thus far, the gathering had proceeded without more than a few words being spoken, but that ended when the guards tried to bring Seth the Necdlesmith from the nets. He could be heard at once, over the entire distance to the glade, alternately chattering and shrieking in a mixture of tones that might mean either fear or fury. Everyone in the glade but Alaskon turned to look, and heads emerged from purses like new butterflies from cocoons. A moment later, Seth's guards came over the lip of the glade in a tangled group, now shouting themselves. Somewhere in the middle of the knot Seth's voice became still louder; obviously he was clinging with all five members to any vine or frond he could grasp, and was no sooner pried loose from one than he would leap by main force, backwards if possible, to another. Nevertheless he was being brought inexorably clown into the arena, two feet forward, one foot back, three feet forward... Honath's guards resumed picking their pine-cones. During the disturbance, Honath realized, Chari the Reader had been brought in quietly from the same side of the glade. He now sat opposite Alaskon, looking apathetically down at the vine-web. his shoulders hunched forward. He exuded despair; even to look at him made Honath feel a renewed shudder. From the High Scat, the Spokesman said: "Honath the Purscmaker, Alaskon the Navigator, Chari the Reader, Seth the Nccdlesmith Mathild the Forager, you arc called to answer to justice." "Justice!" Sctli shouted, springing free of his captors with a tremendous bound and bringing up with a jerk on the end of his tether. "This is no justice! I have nothing to do with -- " The guards caught up with him and clamped brown hands firmly over his mouth. The Spokesman watched with amused malice. "The accusations are three," the Spokesman said. "The first, the telling of lies to children. Second, die casting into doubt of the divine order among men. Third, the denial of the Book of Laws. Each of you may speak in order of age. Honath the Purscmakcr, your plea may be heard." Honath stood up, trembling a little, but feeling a surprisingly renewed surge of his old independence. "Your charges," he said, "all rest upon the denial of the Book of Law's. I have taught nothing else that is contrary to what wc all believe, and called nothing else into doubt. And I deny the charge." The Spokesman looked down at him with disbelief. "Many men and women have said that you do not believe in the Giants, purscmakcr," he said. "You w ill not win mercy by piling up more lies." "I deny the charge," Honath insisted. "I believe in the Book of Laws as a whole, and I believe in the Giants. I have taught only that the Giants were not real in the sense that wc arc real. I have taught that they were intended as symbols of some higher reality and were not meant to be taken as literal persons." "What higher reality Is this?" the Spokesman demanded. "Describe it." "You ask me to do something the writers of the Book of Laws themselves couldn't do." Honath said hotly. "If they had to embody the reality in symbols rather than writing it down directly, how could a mere pursemaker do better?" "This doctrine is wind," the Spokesman said. "And it is plainly intended to undercut authority and the order established by the Book. Tell me, purscmakcr: if men need not fear the Giants, why should they fear the law?" "Because they are men, and it is to their interest to fear the law. They aren't children, who need some physical Giant sitting over them with a whip to make them behave. Furthermore, Spokesman, this archaic belief itself undermines us. As long as we believe that there are real Giants, and that some day they'll return and resume teaching us, so long will we fail to seek answers to our questions for ourselves. Half of what we know was given to us in the Book, and the other half is supposed to drop to us from the skies if we wait long enough. In the meantime, we vegetate." "If a part of the Book be untrue, there can be nothing to prevent that it is all untrue," the Spokesman said heavily. "And we will lose even what you call the half of our knowledge -- which is actually the whole of it -- to those who see with clear eyes." Suddenly, Honath lost his temper. "Lose it, then!" he shouted. "Let us unlearn everything we know only by rote, go back to the beginning, learn all over again, and continue to learn, from our own experience. Spokesman, you are an old man, but there are still some of us who haven't forgotten what curiosity means!" "Quiet!" the Spokesman said. "We have heard enough. We call on Alaskon the Navigator." "Much of the Book is clearly untrue," Alaskon said flatly, rising. "As a handbook of small trades it has served us well. As a guide to how the universe is made, it is nonsense, in my opinion : Honath is too kind to it. I've made no secret of what I think, and I still think it." "And will pay for it," the Spokesman said, blinking slowly down at Alaskon. "Chari the Reader." "Nothing," Chari said, without standing, or even looking up. "You do not deny the charges?" "I've nothing to say," Chari said, but then, abruptly, his head jerked up, and he glared with desperate eyes at the Spokesman. "I can read, Spokesman. I have seen words in the Book of Laws that contradict each other. I've pointed them out. They're facts, they exist on the pages. I've taught nothing, told no lies, preached no unbelief. I've pointed to the facts. That's all." "Seth the Needlesmith, you may speak now." The guards took their hands gratefully off Seth's mouth; they had been bitten several times in the process of keeping him quiet up to now. Seth resumed shouting at once. "I'm no part of this group! I'm the victim of gossip, envious neighbors, smiths jealous of my skill and my custom! No man can say worse of me than that I sold needles to this puresmaker -- sold them in good faith! The charges against me are lies, all lies!" Honath jumped to his feet in fury, and then sat down again, choking back the answering shout almost without tasting its bitterness. What did it matter? Why should he bear witness against the young man? It would not help the others, and if Seth wanted to lie his way out of Hell, he might as well be given the chance. The Spokesman was looking down at Seth with the identical expression of outraged disbelief which he had first bent upon Honath. "Who was it cut the blasphemies into the hardwood tree, by the house of Hosi the Lawgiver?" he demanded. "Sharp needles were at work there, and there arc witnesses to say that your hands held them." "More lies!" "Needles found in your house fit the furrows, Seth." "They were not mine -- or they were stolen! I demand to be freed!" "You will be freed," the Spokesman said coldly. There was no possible doubt as to what he meant. Seth began to weep and to shout at the same time. Hands closed over his mouth again. "Mathild the Forager. your plea may be heard." The young woman stood up hesitantly. Her fur was nearly dry now, but she was still shivering. "Spokesman," she said, "I saw the tilings which Chari the Reader showed me. I doubted, but what Honath said restored my belief. I see no harm in his teachings. They remove doubt, instead of fostering it as you say they do. I see no evil in them, and I don't understand why this is a crime." Honath looked over to her with new admiration. The Spokesman sighed heavily. "I am sorry for you," he said, "but as Spokesman we cannot allow ignorance of the law as a plea. We will he merciful to you all, however. Renounce your heresy, affirm your belief in the Book as it is written from bark to bark, and you shall be no more than cast out of the tribe." "I renounce it!" Seth cried. "I never shared it! It's all blasphemy and every word is a lie! I believe in the Book, all of it!" "You, needlesmith," the Spokesman said, "have lied before this Judgment, and are probably lying now. You are not included in the dispensation. "Snake-spotted caterpillar! May you r -- u mmulph." "Pursemakcr, what is your answer?" "It is No," Honath said stonily. "I've spoken the truth. The truth can't be unsaid." The Spokesman looked down at the rest of them. "As for you three, consider your answers carefully. To share the heresy means sharing the sentence. The penalty will not be lightened only because you did not invent the heresy." There was a long silence. Honath swallowed hard. The courage and the faith in that silence made him feel smaller and more helpless than ever. He reali#ed suddenly that die other three would have kept that silence, even without Seth's defection to stiffen their spines. He wondered if he could have done so. "Then we pronounce the sentence," the Spokesman said. "You are one and all condemned to one thousand days in Hell." There was a concerted gasp from around the edges of the arena, where, without Honath's having noticed it before, a silent crowd had gathered. He did not wonder at the sound. The sentence was the longest in the history of the tribe. Not that it really meant anything. No one had ever come back from as little as one hundred days in Hell. No one had ever come back from Hell at all. "Unlash the Elevator. All shall go together." of die attic world that Honath saw was a circle of faces, not too close to the gap in the vine web, peering down after them. Then the basket fell another few yards to the next turn of the windlass and the faces vanished. Seth was weeping in the bottom of the Elevator, curled up into a tight ball, the end of his tail wrapped around his nose and eyes. No one else could make a sound, least of Honath. The gloom closed around them. It seemed extraordinarily still. The occasional harsh screams of a lizardbird somehow distended the silence without breaking it. The light that filtered down into the long aisles between the trees seemed to be absorbed in a blue-green haze through which the lianas wove their long curved lines. The columns of treetrunks. the pillars of the world, stood all around them, too distant in the dim light to allow them to gauge their speed of descent. Only the irregular plunges of the basket proved that it was even in motion any longer, though it swayed laterally in a complex, overlapping series of figure-eights. Then the basket lurched downward once more, brought up short, and tipped sidewise, tumbling them all against the hard cane. Mathild cried out in a thin voice, and Seth uncurled almost instantly, clawing for a handhold. Another lurch, and the Elevator lay down on its side and was still. They were in Hell. Cautiously, Honath began to climb out, picking his way over the long thorns on the basket's rim. After a moment, Chari the Reader followed, and then Alaskon took Mathild firmly by the hand and led her out onto the surface. The footing was wet and spongy, yet not at all resilient, and it felt cold; Honath 's toes curled involuntarily. "Come on, Seth," Chari said in a hushed voice. "They won't haul it back up until we're all out. You know that." Alaskon looked around into the chilly mists. "Yes," he said. "And we'll need a needlcsmith down here. With good tools, there's just a chance -- " Seth's eyes had been darting back and forth from one to the other. With a sudden chattering scream, he bounded out of the bottom of the basket, soaring over their heads in a long, flat leap and struck the high knee at the base of the nearest tree, an immense fan palm. As he hit, his legs doubled under him, and almost in the same motion he seemed to rocket straight up into the murky air. Gaping, Honath looked up after him. The young needlcsmith had timed his course to the split second. He was already darting up the rope from which the Elevator was suspended. He did not even bother to look back. After a moment, the basket tipped upright. The impact of Seth's weight hitting the rope evidently had been taken by the windlass team to mean that the condemned people were all out on the surface; a twitch on the rope was the usual signal. The basket began to rise, hobbling and dancing. Its speed of ascent, added to Seth's took his racing, dwindling figure out of sight quickly. After a while, the basket was gone, too. "He'll never get to the top," Mathild whispered. "It's too far, and he's going too fast. He'll lose strength and fall." "I don't think so," Alaskon said heavily. "He's agile and strong. If anyone could make it, he could." "They'll kill him if he docs." "Of course they will," Alaskon said, shrugging. "I won't miss him," Honath said. "No more will I. But we could use some sharp needles down here, Honath. Now we'll have to plan to make our own -- if we can identify the different woods, down here where there aren't any leaves to help us tell them apart." Honath looked at the navigator curiously. Seth's bolt for the sky had distracted him from the realization that the basket, too, was gone, but now that desolate fact hit home. "You actually plan to stay alive in Hell, don't you, Alaskon?" "Certainly," Alaskon said calmly. "This is no more Hell than -- up there -- is Heaven. It's the surface of the planet, no more, no less. We can stay alive if we don't panic. Were you just going to sit here until the furies came for you, Honath?" "I hadn't thought much about it," Honath confessed. "But if there is any chance that Seth will lose his grip on that rope -- before he reaches the top and they stab him -- shouldn't we wait and sec if we can catch him? He can't weigh more than # pounds. Maybe we could contrive some sort of a net -- " "He'd just break our bones along with his," Chari said. "I'm for getting out of here as fast as possible." "What for? Do you know a better place?" "No, but whether this is Hell or not, there are demons down here. We've all seen them from up above. They must know that the Elevator always lands here and empties out free food. This must be a feedingground for them -- " He had not quite finished speaking when the branches began to sigh and toss, far above. A gust of stinging droplets poured along the blue air and thunder rumbled. Mathild whimpered. "It's only a squall coming up," Honath said. But the words came out in a series of short croaks. As the wind had moved through the trees, Honath had automatically flexed his knees and put his arms out for handholds, awaiting the long wave of response to pass through the ground beneath him. But nothing happened. The surface under his feet remained stolidly where it was, flexing not a fraction of an inch in any direction. And there was nothing nearby for his hands to grasp. He staggered, trying to compensate for the failure of the ground to move. At the same moment another gust of wind blew through the aisles, a little stronger than the first, and calling insistently for a new adjustment of his body to the waves which would be passing among the treetops. Again the squashy surface beneath him refused to respond. The familiar giveand-take of the vine-web to the winds, a part of his world as accustomed as the winds themselves, was gone. Honath was forced to sit down, feeling distinctly ill. The damp, cool earth under his furless buttocks was unpleasant, but he could not have remained standing any longer without losing his meagre prisoner's breakfast. One grappling hand caught hold of the ridged, gritting stems of a clump of horsetail, but the contact failed to allay the uneasiness. The others seemed to be bearing it no better than Honath. Mathild in particular was rocking dizzily, her lips compressed, her hands clasped to her delicate ears. Dizziness. It was unheard of up above, except among those who had sufTcrcd grave head injuries or were otherwise very ill. But on the motionless ground of Hell, it was evidently going to be with them constantly. Chari squatted, swallowing convulsively. "I -- I can't stand," he moaned. "Nonsense !" Alaskon said, though he had remained standing only by clinging to the huge, mud-colored bulb of a cycadella. "It's just a disturbance of our sense of balance. We'll get used to it." "We'd better," Honath said, relinquishing his grip on the horsetails by a sheer act of will. "I think Chari's right about this being a feeding-ground, Alaskon. I hear something moving around in the ferns. And if this rain lasts long, the water will rise here, too. I've seen silver flashes from down here many a time after heavy rains." "That's right." Mathild said, her voice subdued. "The base of the fan-palm grove always floods. That's why the trectops are lower there." The wind seemed to have let up a little, though the rain was still falling. Alaskon stood up tentatively and looked around. "Then let's move on," he said. "If we try to keep under cover until we get to higher ground -- " A faint crackling sound, high above his head, interrupted him. It got louder. Feeling a sudden spasm of pure fear, Honath looked up. # Nothing could be seen for an instant but the far-away curtain of branches and fern fronds. Then, with shocking suddenness, something plummeted through the bluegreen roof and came tumbling toward them. It was a man, twisting and tumbling through the air with grotesque slowness, like a child turning in its sleep. They scattered. The body hit the ground with a sodden thump, but there were sharp overtones to the sound, like the bursting of a gourd. For a moment nobody moved. Then Honath crept forward. It had been Seth, as Honath had realized the moment the figurine had burst through the branches far above. But it had not been the fall that had killed him. He had been run through by at least a dozen needles -- some of them, beyond doubt, tools from his own shop, their points edged hair-fine by his own precious strops of leatherwoodbark. There would be no reprieve from above. The sentence was one thousand days. This burst and broken huddle of fur was the only alternative. And the first day had barely bethe day to reach higher ground. As they stole cautiously closer to the foothills of the Great Range and the ground became firmer, they were able to take to the air for short stretches, but they were no sooner aloft among the willows than the lizard-birds caine squalling down on them by the dozens, fighting among each other for the privilege of nipping these plump and incredibly slow-moving monkeys. No man, no matter how confirmed a free-thinker, could have stood up under such an onslaught by the creatures he had been taught as a child to think of as his ancestors. The first time it happened, every member of the party dropped like a pine-cone to the sandy ground and lay paralyzed under the nearest cover, until the brindlc-fcathered, fan-tailed screamers tired of flying in such tight circles and headed for clearer air. Even after the lizardbirds had given up, they crouched quietly for a long time, waiting to see what greater demons might have been attracted by the commotion. Luckily, on the higher ground there was much more cover from low-growing shrubs and trees -- palmetto, sassafras, several kinds of laurel, magnolia, and a great many sedges. Up here, too, the endless jungle began to break around the bases of the great pink cliffs. Overhead were welcome vistas of open sky, sketchily crossed by woven bridges leading from the vine-world to the clifTs themselves. In the intervening columns of blue air a whole hierarchy of flying creatures ranked themselves, layer by layer. First, the low-flying beedes, bees and twowinged insects. Next were the dragonflies which hunted them, some with wingspreads as wide as two feet. Then the lizard-birds, hunting the dragonflies and anythjng else that could be nipped without fighting back. And at last, far above, the great gliding reptiles coasting along the brows of the cliffs, riding the rising currents of air, their longjawed hunger stalking anything that flew -- as they sometimes stalked the birds of the attic world, and the flying fish along the breast of the distant sea. The party halted in an especially thick clump of sedges. Though the rain continued to fall, harder than ever, they were all desperately thirsty. They had yet to find a single bromelaid; evidently the tankplants did not grow in Hell. Cupping their hands to the weeping sky accumulated surprisingly little water; and no puddles large enough to drink from accumulated on the sand. But at least, here under the open sky, there was too much fierce struggle in the air to allow the lizard-birds to congregate and squall about their hiding place. The white sun had already set and the red sun's vast arc still bulged above the horizon. In the lurid glow the rain looked like blood, and the seamed faces of the pink cliffs had all but vanished. Honath peered dubiously out from under the sedges at the still distant escarpments. "I don't see how we can hope to climb those." he said, in a low voice. "That kind of limestone crumbles as soon as you touch it, otherwise we'd have had better luck with our war against the cliff tribe." "We could go around the cliffs," Chari said. "The foothills of the Great Range aren't very steep. If we could last until we get to them, we could go on up into the Range itself." "To the volcanoes!" Mathild protested. "But nothing can live up there, nothing but the white firethings. And there are the lava-flows, too, and the choking smoke -- " "Well, we can't climb these cliffs. Honath's quite right," Alaskon said. "And we can't climb the Basalt Steppes, either -- there's nothing to eat along them, let alone any water or cover. I don't see what else we can do but try to get up into the foothills." "Can't we stay here?" Mathild said plaintively. "No," Honath said, even more gently than he had intended. Mathild's four words were, he knew, the most dangerous words in Hell -- he knew it quite surely, because of the imprisoned creature inside him that cried out to say "Yes" instead. "We have to get out of the country of the demons. And maybe -- just maybe -- if we can cross the Great Range, we can join a tribe that hasn't heard about our being condemned to Hell. There are supposed to be tribes on the other side of the Range, but the cliff people would never let our folk get through to them. That's on our side now." "That's true," Alaskon said, brightening a little. "And from the top of the Range, we could come down into another tribe -- instead of trying to climb up into their village out of Hell. Honath, I think it might work." "Tnen we'd better try to sleep right here and now," Chari said. "It seems safe enough. If we're going to skirt the cliffs and climb those foothills, we'll need all the strength we've got left." Honath was about to protest, but he was suddenly too tired to care. Why not sleep it over? And if in the night they were found and taken -- well, that would at least put an end to the struggle. It was a cheerless and bone-damp bed to sleep in, but there was no alternative. They curled up as best they could. Just before he was about to drop off at last, Honath heard Mathild whimpering to herself and, on impulse, crawled over to her and began to smooth down her fur with his tongue. To his astonishment each separate, silky hair was loaded with dew. Long before the girl had curled herself more tightly and her complaints had dwindled into sleepy murmurs, Honath's thirst was assuaged. He reminded himself to mention the method in the morning. But when the white sun finally came up, there was no time to think of thirst. Char the Reader was gone. Something had plucked him from their huddled midst as neatly as a fallen breadfruit -- and had dropped his cleaned ivory skull just as negligently, some two hundred feet farther on up the slope which led toward the pink cliffs. three found the blue, turbulent stream flowing out of the foothills of the Great Range. Not even Alaskon knew quite what to make of it. It looked like water, but it flowed like the rivers of lava that crept downward from the volcanoes. Whatever else it could be, obviously it wasn't water; water stood, it never flowed. It was possible to imagine a still body of water as big as this, but only in a moment of fancy, an exaggeration derived from the known bodies of water in the tank-plants. But this much water in motion? It suggested pythons; it was probably poisonous. It did not occur to any of them to drink from # it. They were afraid even to touch it, let alone cross it. for it was almost surely as hot as the other kinds of lava-rivers. They followed its course cautiously into the foothills, their throats as dry and gritty as the hollow stems of horsetails. Except for the thirst -- which was in an inverted sense their friend, insofar as it overrode the hunger -- the climbing was not difficult. It was only circuitous, because of the need to stay under cover, to reconnoiter every few yards, to choose the most sheltered course rather than the most direct. By an unspoken consent, none of the three mentioned Chari, but their eyes were constantly darting from side to side, searching for a glimpse of the thing that had taken him. That was perhaps the worst, the most terrifying part of the tragedy: not once, since they had been in Hell, had they actually seen a demon -- or even any animal as large as a man. The enormous, threetaloned footprint thev had found in the sand beside their previous night's bed -- the spot where the thing had stood, looking down at the four sleepers from above, coldly deciding which of them to seize -- was the only evidence they had that they were now really in the same world with the demons. The world of the demons they had sometimes looked down upon from the remote vine-webs. The footprint -- and the skull. By nightfall, they had ascended perhaps a hundred and fifty feet. Tt was difficult to judge distances in the twilight, and the token vine bridges from the attic world to the pink cliffs were now cut off from sight by the intervening masses of the cliffs themselves. But there was no possibility that they could climb higher today. Although Mathild had bom the climb surprisingly well, and Honath himself still felt almost fresh, Alnskon was completely winded. He had taken a bad cut on one hip from a serrated spike of volcanic glass against which he had stumbled. The wound, bound with leaves to prevent its leaving a spoor which might be followed, evidently was becoming steadily more painful. Honath finally called a halt as soon as they reached the little ridge with the cave in back of it. Helping Alaskon over the last boulders, he was astonished to discover how hot the navigator's hands were. He took him back into the cave and then came out onto the ledge again. "He's really sick," he told Mathild in a low voice. "He needs water, and another dressing for that cut. And wc'vc got to get both for him somehow. If we ever get to the jungle on the other side of the Range, we'll need a navigator even worse than we need a nee'dlesmith." "But how? I could dress the cut if I had the materials, Honath. But there's no water up here. It's a desert; we'll never get across it." "We've got to try. I can get him water, I think. There was a big cycladella on the slope we came up, just before we passed that obsidian spur that hurt Alaskon. Gourds that size usually have a fair amount of water inside them and I can use a piece of the spur to rip it open -- " A small hand came out of the darkness and took him tightly by the elbow. "Honath, you can't go back down there. Suppose the demon that -- that took Chari is still following us? They hunt at night -- and this country is all so strange... "I can find my way. I'll follow the sound of the stream of blue lava or whatever it is. You pull some fresh leaves for Alaskon and try to make him comfortable. Better loosen those vines around the dressing a little. I'll be back." lie touched her hand and pried it loose gently. Then, without stopping to think about it any further, he slipped off the ledge and edged toward the sound of the stream, travelling crabwise on all fours. But he was swiftly lost. The night was thick and completely impenetrable, and he found that the noise of the stream seemed to come from all sides, providing him no guide at all. Furthermore, his memory of the ridge which led up to the cave appeared to be faulty, for he could feel it turning sharply to the right beneath him, though he remembered distinctly that it had been straight past the first side-branch, and then had gone to the left. Or had he passed the first side-branch in the dark without seeing it? He probed the darkness cautiously with one hand. At the same instant, a brisk, staccato gust of wind came whirling up out of the night across the ridge. Instinctively, Honath shifted his weight to take up the flexing of the ground beneath him. He realized his error instantly and tried to arrest the complex set of motions, but a habit-pattern so deeply ingrained could not be frustrated completely. Overwhelmed with vertigo, Honath grappled at the empty air with hands, feet and tail and went toppling. An instant later, with a familiar noise and an equally familiar cold shock that seemed to reach throughout his body, he was sitting in the midst of -- Water. Icy water. Water that rushed by him improbably with a menacing, monkeylike chattering, but water all the same. It was all he could do to repress a hoot of hysteria. He hunkered down into the stream and soaked himself. Things nibbled delicately at his calves as he bathed, but he had no reason to fear fish, small species of which often showed up in the tanks of the bromelaids. After lowering his muzzle to the rushing, invisible surface and drinking his fill, he ducked himself completely and then clambered out onto die banks, carefully neglecting to shake himself. Getting back to the ledge was much less difficult. "Mathild?" he called in a hoarse whisper. "Mathild, we've got water." "Come in here quick then. Alaskon's worse. I'm afraid, Honath." Dripping, Honath felt his way into the cave. "I don't have any container. I just got myself wet -- you'll have to sit him up and let him lick my fur." "I'm not sure he can." But Alaskon could, feebly, but suflicieiuly. Even die coldness of the water -- a totally new experience for a man who had never drunk anything but the soupwarm contents of the broinelaids -- seemed to help him. He lay back at last, and said in a weak but otherwise normal voice: "So the stream was water after all ." "Yes," Honath said. "And there are fish in it, too." "Don't talk," Mathild said. "Rest, Alaskon." "I'm resting. Honath, if we stick to the course of the stream... Where was I? Oh. We can follow the stream through the Range, now that we know it's water. How did you find that out?" "I lost my balance and fell into it." Alaskon chuckled. "Hell's not so bad, is it?" he said. Then he sighed, and rushes creaked under him. "Mathild! What's the matter? Is he -- did he die?" "No... no. He's breathing. He's still sicker than he realizes, that's all... Honath -- if they'd known, up above, how much courage you have -- " "I was scared white," Honath said grimly. "I'm still scared." But her hand touched his again in the solid blackness, and after he had taken it, he felt irrationally cheerful. With Alaskon breathing so raggedly behind them, there was little chance that either of them would be able to sleep that night; but they sat silently together on the hard stone in a kind of temporary peace. When the mouth of the cave began to outline itself with the first glow of the red sun, they looked at each other in a conspiracy of light all their own. Let us unlearn everything ive knezu only by rote, go back to the beginning , learn all over again, and continue to learn... With the first light of the white sun, a half-grown megatherium cub rose slowly from its crouch at the mouth of the cave and stretched luxuriously, showing a full set of saber-like teeth. It looked at them steadily for a moment, its ears alert, then turned and loped away down the slope. How long it had been crouched there listening to them, it was impossible to know. They had been lucky that they had stumbled into the lair of a youngster. A full-grown animal would have killed them all, within a few seconds after its cat'seyes had collected enough dawn to identify them positively. The cub, since it had no family of its own, evidently had only been puzzled to find its den occupied and didn't want to quarrel about it. The departure of the big cat left Honath frozen, not so much frightened as simply stunned by so unexpected an end to the vigil. At the first moan from Alaskon, however, Mathild was up and walking softly to the navigator, speaking in a low voice, sentences which made no particular sense and perhaps were not intended to. Honath stirred and followed her. Halfway back into the cave, his foot struck something and he looked down. It was the thigh-bone of some medium-large animal, imperfectly cleaned and not very recent. It looked like a keepsake the megatherium had hoped to save from the usurpers of its lair. Along a curved inner surface there was a patch of thick grey mold. Honath squatted and peeled it off carefully. "Mathild, we can put this over the wound," he said. "Some molds help prevent wounds from festering... How is he?" "Better, I think," Mathild murmured. "But he's still feverish. I don't think we'll be able to move on today." Honath was unsure whether to be pleased or disturbed. Certainly he was far from anxious to leave the cave, where they seemed at least to be reasonably comfortable. Possibly they would also be reasonably safe, for the low-roofed hole almost surely still smelt of megatherium, and intruders would recognize the smell -- as the men from the attic world could not -- and keep their distance. They would have no way of knowing that the cat had only been a cub and that it had vacated the premises, though of course the odor would fade before long. Yet it was important to move on, to cross the Great Range if possible, and in the end to wind their way back to the world where they belonged. And to win vindication, no matter how long it took. Even should it prove relatively easy to survive in Hell -- and there were few signs of that, thus far -- the only proper course was to fight until the attic world was totally regained. After all, it would have been the easy and the comfortable thing. back there at the very beginning, to have kept one's incipient heresies to oneself and remained on comfortable terms with one's neighbors. But Honath had spoken up, and so had the rest of them, in their fashions. It was the ancient internal battle between what Honath wanted to do, and what he knew he ought to do. He had never heard of Kant and the Categorical Imperative, but he knew well enough which side of his nature would win in the long run. But it had been a cruel joke of heredity which had fastened a sense of duty onto a lazy nature. It made even small decisions egregiously painful. But for the moment at least, the decision was out of his hands. Alaskon was too sick to be moved. In addition, the strong beams of sunlight which had been glaring in across the floor of the cave were dimming by the instant, and there was a distant, premonitory growl of thunder. "Then we'll stay here," he said. "It's going to rain again, and hard this time. Once it's falling in earnest, I can go out and pick us some fruit -- it'll screen me even if anything is prowling around in it. And I won't have to go as far as the stream for water, as long as the rain keeps up." The rain, as it turned out, kept up all day, in a growing downpour which completely curtained the mouth of the cave by early afternoon. The chattering of the nearby stream grew quickly to a roar. By evening, Alaskon's fever seemed to have dropped almost to normal, and his strength nearly returned as well. The wound, thanks more to the encrusted matte of mold than to any complications within the flesh itself, was still uglylooking, hut it was now painful only when the navigator moved carelessly, and Mathild was convinced that it was mending. Alaskon himself, having been deprived of activity all day, was unusually talkative. "Has it occurred to either of you," he said in the gathering gloom, "that since that stream is water, it can't possibly be coming from the Great Range? All the peaks over there are just cones of ashes and lava. We've seen young volcanoes in the process of building themselves, so we're sure of that. What's more, they're usually hot. I don't sec how there could possibly be any source of water in the Range -- not even run-off from the rains.' "It can't just come up out of the ground," Honath said. "It must be fed by rain. By the way it sounds now, it could even be the first part of a flood." . "As you say, it's probably rainwater," Alaskon said cheerfully. "But not off the Great Range, that's out of the question. Most likely it collects on the cliffs." "I hoje you're wrong," Honath said. "The cliffs may be a little easier to climb from this side, but there's still the cliff tribe to think about." "Maybe, maybe. But the cliffs are big. The tribes on this side may never have heard of the war with our tree-top folk. No, Honath, I think that's our only course." "If it is," Honath said grimly, "we're going to wish more than ever that we had some stout, sharp needles among us." quickly borne out. The three left the cave at dawn the next morning, Alaskon moving somewhat stiffly but not otherwise noticeably incommoded, and resumed following the stream bed upwards -- a stream now swollen by the rains to a roaring rapids. After winding its way upwards for about a mile in the general direction of the Great Range, the stream turned on itself and climbed rapidly back toward the basalt cliffs, falling toward the three over successively steeper shelves of jutting rock. Then it turned again, at right angles, and the three found themselves at the exit of a dark gorge, little more than thirty feet high, but both narrow and long. Here the stream was almost perfectly smooth, and the thin strip of land on each side of it was covered with low shrubs. They paused and looked dubiously into the canyon. It was singularly gloomy. "There's plenty of cover, at least," Honath said in a low voice. "But almost anything could live in a place like that." "Nothing very big could hide in it," Alaskon pointed out. "It should be safe. Anyhow it's the only way to go." "All right. Let's go ahead, then. But keep your head dow-n, and be ready to jump!" Honath lost the other two by sight as soon as they crept into the dark shrubbery, but he could hear their cautious movements nearby. Nothing else in the gorge seemed to move at all, not even the water, which flowed without a ripple over an invisible bed. There was not even any wind, for which Honath was grateful, although he had begun to develop an immunity to the motionless ground beneath them. After a few moments, Honath heard a low whistle. Creeping sidewase toward the source of the sound, he nearly bumped into Alaskon, who was crouched beneath a thickly-spreading magnolia. An instant later, Mathilda's face peered out of the dim greenery. "Look," Alaskon whispered. "What do you make of this?" 'This' was a hollow in the sandy soil, about four feet across and rimmed w-ith a low parapet of earth -- evidently the same earth that had been scooped out of its center. Occupying most of it were three grey, ellipsoidal objects, smooth and featureless. "Eggs," Mathild said wonderingly. "Obviously. But look at the size of them! Whatever laid them must be gigantic. I think we're trespassing in something's private valley." Mathild drew in her breath, ftonath thought fast, as much to prevent panic in himself as in the girl. A sharp-edged stone lying nearby provided the answer. He seized it and struck. The outer surface of the egg was leathery rather than brittle; it tore raggedly. Deliberately, Honath bent and put his mouth to the oozing surface. It was excellent. The flavor w r as decidedly stronger than that of birds' eggs, but he was far too hungry to be squeamish. After a moment's amazement, Alaskon and Mathild attacked the other two ovoids with a will. It was the first really satisfying meal they had had in Hell. When they finally moved away from the devastated nest, Honath felt better than he had since the day he was arrested. As they moved on down the gorge, they began again to hear the roar of water, though the stream looked as placid as ever. Here, too, they saw the first sign of active life in the valley: a flight of giant dragonflies skimming over the water. The insects took fright as soon as Honath showed himself, but quickly came back, their nearly non-existent brains already convinced that there had always been men in the valley. The roar got louder very rapidly. When the three rounded the long, gentle turn which had cut off their view from the exit, the source of the roar came into view. It was a sheet of falling water as tall as the depth of the gorge itself, which came arcing out from between two pillars of basalt and fell to a roiling, frothing pool. "This is as far as we go!" Alaskon said, shouting to make himself heard over the tumult. "We'll never be able to get up these walls!" Stunned, Honath looked from side to side. What Alaskon had said was all too obviously true. The gorge evidently had begun life as a layer of soft, partly soluble stone in the cliffs, tilted upright by some volcanic upheaval, and then worn completely away by the rushing stream. Both cliff faces were of the harder rock, and were sheer and as smooth as if they had been polished by hand. Here and there a network of tough vines had begun to climb them, but nowhere did such a network even come close to reaching the top. Honath turned and looked once more at the great arc of water and spray. If there were only some way to prevent their being forced to retrace their steps -- Abruptly, over the riot of the falls, there was a piercing, hissing shriek. Echoes picked it up and sounded it again and again, all the way up the battlements of the cliffs. Honatli sprang straight up in the air and came down trembling, facing away from the pool. At first he could see nothing. Then, down at the open end of the turn, there was a huge flurry of motion. A second later, a two-legged, blue-green reptile half as tall as the gorge itself came around the turn in a single bound and lunged violently into the far wall of the valley. It stopped as if momentarily stunned, and the great grinning head turned toward them a face of sinister and furious idiocy. The shriek set the air to boiling again. Balancing itself with its heavy tail, the beast lowered its head and looked redly toward the falls. The owner of the robbed nest had come home. They had met a demon of Hell at last. Honath's mind at that instant went as white and blank as the under-bark of a poplar. He acted without thinking, without even knowing what he did. When thought began to creep back into his head again, the three of them were standing shivering in semidarkness, watching the blurred shadow of the demon lurching back and forth upon the screen of shining water. It had been nothing but luck, not forcplanning. to find that there was a considerable space between the back of the falls proper and the blind wall of the canyon. It had been luck, too, which had forced Honath to skirt the pool in order to reach the falls at all, and thus had taken them all behind the silver curtain at the point where the weight of the falling water was too low to hammer them down for good. And it had been the blindest stroke of all that the demon had charged after them directly into the pool, where the deep, boiling water had slowed its thrashing hind legs enough to halt it before it went under tne falls, as it had earlier blundered into the hard wall of the gorge. Not an iota of all this had been in Honath's mind before he had discovered it to be true. At the moment that the huge reptile had screamed for the second time, he had simply grasped Mathild's hand and broken for the falls, leaping from low tree to shrub to fern faster than he had ever leapt before. He did not stop to sec how well Mathild was keeping up with him. or whether or not Alaskon was following. He only ran. He might have screamed, too; he could not remember. They stood now, all three of them, wet through, behind the curtain until the shadow of the demon faded and vanished. Finally Honath felt a hand thumping his shoulder, and turned slowly. Speech was impossible here, but Alaskon's pointing finger was eloquent enough. Along the back wall of the falls, where centuries of erosion had failed to wear away completely the original soft limestone, there was a sort of serrated chimney, open toward the gorge, which looked as though it could be climbed. At the top of the falls, the water shot out from between the basalt pillars in a smooth, almost solid-looking tube, arching at least six feet before beginning to break into the fan of spray and rainbow's which poured down into the gorge. Once the chimney had been climbed, it should be possible to climb out from under the falls without passing through the water again. And after that -- ? Abruptly, Honath grinned. lie felt weak all through with reaction, and the face of the demon would probably be grinning in his dreams for a long time to come. But at the same time he could not repress a surge of irrational confidence. He gestured upward jauntily, shook himself, and loped forward into the throat of the chimney. Hardly more than an hour later they were all standing on a ledge overlooking the gorge, with the waterfall creaming over the brink next to them, only a few yards away. From here, it was evident that the gorge itself was only the bottom of a far greater cleft, a split in the pink-and-grev clifTs as sharp as though it had been riven in the rock by a bolt of sheet lightning. Beyond the basalt pillars from which the fall issued, however, the stream foamed over a long ladder of rock shelves which seemed to lead straight up into the sky. "That way?" Mathild said. "Yes, and as fast as possible," Alaskon said, shading his eyes. "It must be late. I don't think the light will last much longer." "We'll have to go single file, Honath added. "And we'd better keep hold of each other's hands. One slip on those wet steps and -- it's a long way down again." Mathild shuddered and took Honath's hand convulsively. To his astonishment, the next instant she was tugging him toward the basalt pillars. The irregular patch of deepening violet sky grew slowly as they climbed. They paused often, clinging to the jagged escarpments until their breath came back, and snatching icy water in cupped palms from the stream that fell down the ladder beside them. There was no way to tell how far up into the dusk the way had taken them, but Honath suspected that they were already somewhat above the level of their own vineweb world. The air smelled colder and sharper than it ever had above the jungle. The final cut in the cliffs through which the stream fell was another chimney. It was steeper and more smooth-walled than the one which had taken them out of the gorge under the waterfall, but narrow enough to be climbed by bracing one's back against one side, and one's hands and feet against the other. The column of air inside the chimney was filled with spray, but in Hell that was too minor a discomfort to bother about. At long last Honath heaved himself over the edge of the chimney onto flat rock, drenched and exhausted, but filled with an elation he could not suppress and did not want to. They were above the attic jungle; they had beaten Hell itself. He looked around to make sure that Mathild was safe, and then reached a hand down to Alaskon. The navigator's bad leg had been giving him trouble. Honath heaved mightily and Alaskon came heavily over the edge and lit sprawling on the high mesa. The stars were out. For a while they simply sat and gasped for breath. Then they turned, one by one, to see where they were. There was not a great deal to see. There was the mesa, domed with stars on all sides and a shining, finned spindle, like a gigantic minnow, pointing skyward in the center of the rocky plateau. And around the spindle, indistinct in the starlight... Around the shining minnow, tending it, were Giants. battle to do what was right, whatever the odds. All the show of courage against superstition, all the black battles against Hell itself, came down to this: The Giants were real! They were unarguably real. Though they were twice as tall as men, stood straighter, had broader shoulders, were heavier across the seat and had no visible tails, their fellowship with men was clear. Even their voices, as they shouted to each other around their towering metal minnow, were the voices of men made into gods, voices as remote from those of men as the voices of men were remote from those of monkeys, yet just as clearly of the same family. These were the Giants of the Book of Laws. They were not only real, but they had come back to Tellura as they had promised to do. And they would know what to do with unbelievers, and with fugitives from Hell. It had all been for nothing -- not only the physical struggle, but the fight to be allowed to think for oneself as well. The gods existed, literally, actually. Hi is belief was the real hell from which Honath had been trying to fight free all his life -- but now it was no longer just a belief. It was a fact, a fact that he was seeing with his own eyes. The Giants had returned to judge their handiwork. And the first of the people they would meet would be three outcasts, three condemned and degraded criminals, three jailbreakers -- the worst possible detritus of the attic world. All this went scaring through Honath's mind in less than a second, but nevertheless Alaskon's mind evidently had worked still # faster. Always the most outspoken unbeliever of the entire little group of rebels, the one among them whose whole world was founded upon the existence of rational explanations for everything, his was the point of view most completely challenged by the sight before them now. With a deep, sharply indrawn breath, he turned abruptly and walked away from them. Mathild uttered a cry of protest, which she choked off in the middle; but it was already too late. A round eye on the great silver minnow came alight, bathing them all in Honath darted after the navigator. Without looking back, Alaskon suddenly was running. For an instant longer Honath saw his figure, poised delicately against the black sky. Then he dropped silently out of sight, as suddenly and completely as if he had never been. Alaskon had borne every hardship and every terror of the ascent from Hell with courage and even with cheerfulness but he had been unable to face being told that it had all been meaningless. Sick at heart. Honath turned back, shielding his eyes from the miraculous light. There was a clear call in some unknown language from near the spindle. Then there were footsteps, several pairs of them, coming closer. It was time for the Second Judgment. After a long moment, a big voice from the darkness said: "Don't be afraid. We mean you no harm. We're men, just as you are." The language had the archaic flavor of the Book of Laws, but it was otherwise perfectly understandable. A second voice said: "What arc you called?" # Honath's tongue seemed to be stuck to the roof of his mouth. While he was struggling with it, Mathild's voice came clearly from beside him: "He is Honath the Pursemaker, and I am Mathild the Forager."      "You are a long distance from the place we left your people," the first Giant said. "Don't you still live in the vine-webs above the jungles?" "Lord -- " "My name is Jarl Eleven. This man is Gerhardt Adler." This seemed to stop Mathild completely. Honath could understand why. The very notion of addressing Giants by name was nearly paralyzing. But since they were already as good as cast down into Hell again, nothing could be lost by it. "Jarl Eleven," he said, "the people still live among the vines. The floor of the jungle is forbidden. Only criminals are sent there. We are criminals." "Oh?" Jarl Eleven said. "And you've come all the way from the surface to this mesa? Gerhardt, this is prodigious. You have no idea what the surface of this planet is like -- it's a place where evolution has never managed to leave the tooth-and-nail stage. Dinosaurs from every period of the Mesozoic, primitive mammals all the way up the scale to the ancient cats -- the works. That's why the original seeding team put these people in the treetops instead." "Honath, what was your crime?" Gerhardt Adler said. Honath was almost relieved to have the questioning come so quickly to this point. Jarl Eleven's aside, with its many terms he could not understand, had been frightening in its very meaninglessness. "There were five of us," Honath said in a low voice. "We said we -- that we did not believe in the Giants." There was a brief silence. Then, shockingly, both Jarl Eleven and Gerhardt Adler burst into enormous laughter. Mathild cowered, her hands over her cars. Even Honath flinched and took a step backward. Instantly, the laughter stopped, and the Giant called Jarl Eleven stepped into the oval of light and sat down beside them. In the light, it could be seen that his face and hands were hairless, although there was hair on his crown; the rest of his body was covered by a kind of cloth. Seated, he was no taller than Honath, and did not seem quite so fearsome. "I beg your pardon," he said. "It was unkind of us to laugh, but what you said was highly unexpected. Gerhardt, come over here and squat down, so that you don't look so much like a statue of some general. Tell me, Honath, in what way did you not believe in the Giants?" Honath could hardly believe his ears. A Giant had begged his pardon! Was this still some joke even more cruel? But whatever the reason, Jarl Eleven had asked him a question. "Each of the five of us differed, " he said. "I held that you were not -- not real except as symbols of some abstract truth. One of us, the wisest, believed that you did not exist in any sense at all. But we all agreed that you were not gods." "And of course we aren't," Jarl Eleven said. "We're men. We come from the same stock as you. We're not your rulers, but your brothers. Do you understand what I say?" "No," Honath admitted. "Then let me tell you about it. There arc men on many worlds, Honath. They differ from one another, because the worlds differ, and different kinds of men arc needed to people each one... Gerhard t and I are the kind of men who live on a world called Earth, and many other worlds like it. We are two very minor members of a huge project called a 'seeding program, which has been going on for thousands of years now. It's the job of the seeding program to survey newly discovered worlds, and then to make men suitable to live on each new world.' "To make men? But only gods -- " "No, no. Be patient and listen," said Jarl Eleven. "We don't make men. We make them suitable. There's a great deal of difference between the two. We take the living germ plasm, the sperm and the egg, and we modify it. When the modified man emerges, we help him to settle down in his new world. That's what we did on Tellura -- it happened long ago, before Gerhardt and I were even born. Now we've come back to sec how you people are getting along, and to lend a hand if necessary." He looked from Honath to Mathild, and hack again. "Do you understand?" he said. "I'm trying," Honath said. "But you should go down to the jungletop, then. We're not like the others; they are the people you want to see." "We shall, in the morning. We just landed here. But, just because you're not like the others, we're more interested in you now. Tell me, has any condemned man ever escaped from the jungle floor before you people?" "No, never. That's not surprising. There arc monsters down there." Jarl Eleven looked sidewise at the other Giant. He seemed to be smiling. "When you see the films," he remarked, "you'll call that the understatement of the century. Honath. how did you three manage to escape, then?" Haltingly at first, and then with more confidence as the memories came crowding vividly back, Honath told him. When he mentioned the feast at the demon's nest, Jarl Eleven again looked significantly at Adler, but he did not interrupt. "And finally we got to the top of the chimney and came out on this flat space." Honath said. "Alaskon was still with us then, but when he saw you and the metal thing he threw himself back down the cleft. He was a criminal like us, but he should not have died. He was a brave man, and a wise one." "Not wise enough to wait until all the evidence was in," Adler said enigmatically. "All in all, Jarl, I'd say 'prodigious' is the word for it. This is easily the most successful seeding job any team has ever done, at least in this limb of the galaxy. And what a stroke of luck, to be on the spot just as it came to term, and with a couple at that!" "What does he mean?" Honath said. "Just this, Honath. When the seeding team set your people up in business on Tellura, they didn't mean for you to live forever in the treetops. They knew that, sooner or later, you'd have to come down to the ground and learn to fight this planet on its own terms. Otherwise, you'd go stale and die out." "Live on the ground all the time?" Mathild said in a faint voice. "Yes, Mathild. The life in the treetops was to have been only an interim period, while you gathered knowledge you needed about Tellura and put it to use. But to be the real masters of the world, you will have to conquer the surface, too. "The device your people worked out, that of sending criminals to the surface, was the best way of conquering the planet that they could have picked. It takes a strong will and courage to go against custom, and both those qualities are needed to lick Tellura. Your people exiled just such fighting spirits to the surface, year after year after year. "Sooner or later, some of those exiles were going to discover how to live successfully on the ground and make it possible for the rest of your people to leave the trees. You and Honath have done just that." "Observe please, Jarl," Adler said. "The crime in this first successful case was ideological. That was the crucial turn in the criminal policy of these people. A spirit of revolt is not quite enough, but couple it with brains and -- cccc homo!' # Honath's head was swimming. "But what docs all this mean?" he said. "Are we -- not condemned to Hell any more?" "No, you're still condemned, if you still want to call it that," Jarl Eleven said soberly. "You've learned how to live down there, and you've found out something even more valuable: how to stav alive while cutting down your enemies. Do you know that you killed three demons # with your bare hands, you and Mathild and Alaskon?" "Killed -- " "Certainly," Jarl Eleven said. "You ate three eggs. That is the classical way, and indeed the only way, to wipe out monsters like the dinosaurs. You can't kill the adults with anything short of an anti-tank gun, but they're helpless in embryo -- and the adults haven't the sense to guard their nests." Honath heard, but only distantly. Even his awareness of Mathild's warmth next to him did not seem to help much. "Then we have to go back down there." he said dully. "And this time forever." "Yes," Jarl Eleven said, his voice gentle. "But you wont be alone, Honath. Beginning tomorrow, you'll have all your people with you." "All our people? But -- you're going to drive them out?" "All of them. Oh, we won't prohibit the use of the vine-webs too, but from now on your race will have to fight it out on the surface as well. You and Mathild have proven that it can be done. It's high time the rest of you learned, too." "Jarl, you think too little of these young people themselves," Adler said. "Tell them what is in store for them. They are frightened." "Of course, of course. It's obvious. Honath, you and Mathild are the only living individuals of your race who know how to survive down there on llie suiface. And we're not going to tell your people how to do that. We aren't even going to drop them so much as a hint. That part of it is up to you." Honath's jaw dropped. "It's up to you," Jarl Eleven repeated firmly. "We'll return you to your tribe tomorrow, and we'll tell your people that you two know the rules for successful life on the ground -- and that everyone else has to go down and live there too. We'll tell them nothing else but that. What do you think they'll do then?" "I don't know," Honath said dazedly. "Anything could happen. They might even make us Spokesman and Spokeswoman -- except that we're just common criminals." "Uncommon pioneers, Honath. The man and the woman to lead the humanity of Tellura out of the attic, into the wide world." Jarl Eleven got to his feet, the great light playing over him. Looking up after him, Honath saw that there were at least a dozen other Giants standing just outside the oval of light, listening intently to every word. "But there's a little time to be passed before we begin," Jarl Eleven said. "Perhaps you two would like to look over our ship." Humbly, but with a soundless emotion much like music inside him. Honath took Mathild's hand. Together they walked away from the chimney to Hell, following the footsteps of the Giants. ding, curious scientists of Earth... OfT the beaten trail is a novelfor an adventure in terror we've read in a long time. The tale of two young people who get stranded in the desert is really someanother issue of outstanding entertainment. The August issue is on sale June #th. Just ask your local news dealer.  Sketch was a very unusual person , even for a native of Procyon IV y who believed that life and beauty , among other things , depended on your point of view. Just ask Miss Brown... By Robert F. Young Illustrated by Ed Emsh Brown could not accompany graceful fingers would dance alphathe expedition on its daily explorabetic rigadoons in the summer wind tion flights in the dingey, so every and sometimes, when the day was afternoon she brought her collapparticularly warm and the sky was sible typing desk outside and set it unusually blue, even for Procyon IV, her eyes would steal away from the monotonous reports and the over the lifeless lazy hills that rose beyond the plain. ' They were lovely afternoons, and yet they were lonely too, in a way. But Miss Brown was acquainted with Loneliness. She had met Loneliness at her Senior Prom. She had been sitting by the wall and Loneliness had come over and sat beside her. Loneliness couldn't dance of course, and so the two of them sat there all evening, listening to the music and analyzing the quality of happiness. Happiness in an analytical form turned out to be as elusive as happiness in any other kind of form, and when the last dance was almost over Miss Brown got up unobtrusively and left by wav of the W #  French doors. Loneliness followed her all the way to the dormitory, but she didn't look back. Not once. It was a June night, and there was a moon, and the scent of summer flowers... The wind had a way of swirling around the ship when she least expected it to, and Miss Brown spent part of each afternoon chasing absconding reports and runaway official forms. She always promised herself that the next afternoon she would bring the heaviest paperweight she could find, but she never did. There was something about running in the wind, turning and twisting and bending, and the best part of it was, there was a practical reason behind it: and if the ship's cook happened to wake from his siesta and look down from the open lock, he wouldn't think she was crazy. Not if she was chasing papers. lie would never dream that she was really dancing. But Sketch caught on right away. He appeared, one afternoon, beside her desk, regarding her with his odd circular eyes. "Sketch" was the only name she ever found for him, and it was appropriate enough. He was like the rough outline of a man sketched on transparent paper, only he had been sketched -- quite impossibly -- on thin air. His head was a simple, somewhat asymmetrical oval. An elongated "S" started out as an eyebrow over his left eye and curved down to form the suggestion of a nose; below the extremity of the "S" there was an oblique dash representing a mouth, and below that a horizontal "C" implied a chin. His torso was a rough square, with a pair of long thin rectangles appended to it for legs, and a pair of shorter ones for amis. "You dance very well,' he said, though Miss Brown knew that he didn't really say it. She had just bent down to retrieve the last official form and happened to glance up and see him. There was no movement of his mouth, no slightest vacillation in the expression of his comic face. She straightened abruptly. "This planet i's uninhabited!" she said absurdly. "In a way it is," Sketch said. "It depends on how you look at it." Then, for a moment, she w'as frightened. That was odd. because she should have been frightened first and then made the paradoxical remark about the planet. But she had been so startled, so ashamed -- "Dancing is nothing to be ashamed of," Sketch said. "Espedaily beautiful dancing like yours." "But I wasn't dancing," she said. "I was picking up papers." "It's all a matter of viewpoint... I must go now. Will you be dancing again tomorrow?" "I'll probably be picking up papers, if that's what you mean," Miss Brown said. "I'll come again tomorrow, then." He began to disappear: first the outline of his head, then his arms and his square torso; finally his rectangular legs. It was as though someone had erased him. That was the way it seemed to Miss Brown, anyway. Mechanically she carried the papers back to her desk and sat down. "I must be losing my mind," she said aloud. The words sounded out of place in the stillness, and the wind carried them quickly away. There simply couldn't be any life on the planet. She had typed all the expedition's reports herself; the long exhaustive reports that covered everything from geological # old to the omnipresent traces of the last glacier retreat; and in all the cdantic melange of words there ad not been one single sentence that even faintly suggested animal life of any kind. The planet was a paradox. It had an hydrologic cycle equivalent to Earth's, and the continent they had chosen for exploration had a climate and terrain reminiscent of Illinois. There should have been life -- But there wasn't. Unless you could call an anthropomorphic sketch drawn on thin air, life. She tried to continue typing, but it was no use. Her eyes wouldn't stay on the paper. They kept wandering away, across the plain and over the distant hills. She kept hearing the wind. "You da'nce very well," the wind sang. "Very well, very well, very well... Ikers, but somehow she couldn't. They returned just before sunset and she joined them in the ship's lounge: Captain Fortesque. Dr. Langley, Mr. Smithers, Miss Staunton and Miss Pomeroy. Miss Staunton was a brunette ecologist and Miss Pomeroy was a blonde cartographer. Either of them could have passed for a #-D love goddess and both of them knew it. There was a plethora of talk about the typical distribution of land masses and the characteristic formation of mountain chains. Most of it circled harmlessly about Miss Brown's head. Dr. Langley, who was the expedition's geologist, delivered an impromptu lecture on the law of probabilities as applied to the present situation: there had to be, somewhere, an Earth parallel planet that had not spawned animal life, and ovcrobviously they had found it. After several sequences of martinis all of them went in to dinner. She should have told the captain It was her duty, in a way. But seeing him there at the head of the table, big and burly and insensitive, his face like a foreboding glacier, his attention monopolized by his split pea soup, she could not bring herself to utter a word. She knew he would only laugh anyway, in his loud rumbling voice, and make some snide remark about her daydreaming when she should have been classifying cxpedion data. She could havetold Mr. Smithers, and she almost did. He was the expedition's archeologist, and quite young -- about Miss Brown's age. He had a detached way of looking at her, as though he were seeing her and yet not seeing her; it had disconcerted her at first, till she discovered that he looked at everyone that way -- even Miss Staunton and Miss Pomeroy. His assigned place at the table happened to be next to hers and during the long voyage a camaraderie of sorts had developed between them ; it stemmed, of course, from the exigencies of the moment, and consisted entirely of such practicalities as "Please pass the salt, Miss Brown. Thank you," and "The bread, please, Mr. Smithers. Thank you." It fell abysmally short of being an intimate relationship, but it was all she had. "I had a silly thing happen to me today," she began, right after the main course had been brought in. "I'm not surprised, Miss Brown. This is a silly planet... Please pass the potatoes." Miss Brown passed the potatoes. "Yes, I guess it is," she said. "Well, this afternoon I -- " "The salt please. Miss Brown." Miss Brown passed the salt. She watched while Mr. Smithers cut his roast beef into precise squares; waited till she was sure he wasn't the least bit interested in whatever she might have to say; then she cut an indifferent square from her own roast beef and made believe she was hungry. The next afternoon she forgot the paperweight as usual. The wind then swirled quickly round the ship. There was a sudden squall of official forms and expedition data, and then she was running in the wind again, leaping and turning and pirouetting. Sketch was waiting by the desk when she returned. Waiting with his soft, reassuring words: "How lovely. How lovely in the wind... He came every afternoon after that. He never stayed very long; usually only long enough to say something nice about the way she danced. Sometimes he looked a little different, as though whoever had drawn him couldn't quite remember the way he had drawn him the day before. But the general characteristics were always the same: the Little Orphan Annie eyes, the ridiculous "S" of eyebrow and nose, the hyphen of a rnouth, the horizontal "C" of a chin; the elongated rectangles of limbs. "I wish I could draw better," he said one day. "Is that the way you really look?" Miss Brown asked. "Not exactly. But it's as closely as I can approximate myself and still stay within the range of your reality band." "My reality band!" "In the same way that your perception of color is limited by the narrowness of your visible spectrum, your perception of reality is limited by the narrowness of your experience. Since the life forms on this planet have no reference to your previous experience, the transcendental phase of your reasoning process rejects them. That is why your expedition is unable to find life on a world that teems writh life." "But there isn't any life on this world!" "Of course there isn't -- with reference to your limited experience. Your reality band, though narrower, is as absolute as mine is... But how do you account for me. Miss Brown ?" "I can't." "But you believe I am real?" "Yes. In a way." "Then I am real. Even though you cannot visualize me as anything more than a crude sketch... Will you be dancing again tomorrow, Miss Brown?" "I'll probably be picking up papers," Miss Brown said. drifted slowly by. Each morning the members of the expedition arose early and set out determinedly in the dingey, and each evening they returned late, tired and thwarted and ill-tempered. Nasty little flurries of words sprang up in the wardroom; a state of cold war was tacitly declared between the Misses Staunton and Pomeroy; the captain's glacier of a face kept constant watch for unwary ships at sea. But in Miss Brown's world the sky was blue and cloudless. Sometimes she caught herself singing in the shower. The minutes spent before her portable vanity lengthened subtlv into hours. At dinner, when   # ' Mr. Smithcrs asked for the salt or the butter, she always had something sparkling to say, though naturally Mr. Smithcrs nfcver noticed. And then one evening the captain said, "I've had enough. If we don't find any evidence of life by tomorrow night, we're spacing!" Miss Brown couldn't sleep that night. She turned and tossed in the darkness; she flicked on the light and sat on the edge of her berth, smoking chains of cigarettes. Towards morning she drifted into a fitful doze, but the early rising members of the expedition party awoke her when they came down the companionway. She heard the muffled metallic sound of their footsteps first and then, when they were opposite her compartment, she heard Dr. Langley's voice through the ventilator: "Say, what's come over the beast lately?" "I can't understand it," Miss Pomeroy's voice said. "She actually smiles sometimes. If I didn't know better I'd say she was in love." Dr. Langley's laughter. Miss Staunton's laughter. Someone else's laughter. Everybody's laughter. Dr. Langley's words: "Her? In love?" More laughter. The dwindling of footsteps. Silence... She lay very quietly in the narrow berth. She lay with her hands clasped behind her head, looking up at the small white square of the ceiling. From the middle of the ceiling the raw fluorescent tube grinned hideously down on her unloveliness. She lay there not moving for a long time, her eyes dry. After awhile she got up and began to dress. She dressed carefully, as usual, but why? It was so useless. When she brought out her desk that afternoon she made it a point to bring a paperweight too -- the heaviest she could find -- and she placed it carefully in the middle of the topmost sheet of paper. Very determinedly, she began to type. She did Mr. Smi tiler's notes first, then Dr. Langley's. It wasn't until she was in the middle of Miss Pomeroy's disconnected jottings that her eyes began to wander, across the plain, then over the beckoning hills. Beyond the farthest hill a village nestled in a green valley. A lovely village with pink houses and alabaster streets; with tall crystalline church spires. The kind of a village you could walk into without fear. The kind of village where, no matter who you were, or what you looked like, no one would ever reject you, no one would ever laugh at you... Angrily, she jerked herself back to Miss Pomeroy's incoherent notes. She didn't notice at first that the paperweight w'as gone. When she did notice, it was too late. She grabbed for the papers, but the wind had been waiting and it swooped triumphantly around the ship. And suddenly she was dancing, her body free in the wind, her soft hair blowing about her face. Sketch had been drawn in his usual place by the desk when she returned with the papers. The paperweight had been replaced. "I had to see you dance once more," he said. She put the papers on the desk and set the paperweight on top of them. Then she looked into the circular eyes. "I hate you," she said. "I never want to see you again!" The circular eyes looked back at her enigmatically. The absurd manshape seemed to flutter in the wind. "I don't know why you had to bother me in the first place," Miss Brown went on. "You've only made everything worse than it was before. Why did you do it? Why?" "Because I wanted to see you dance." "But you could have seen me dance -- pick up papers -- anyway. You didn't have to draw a silly picture of yourself. You didn't have to talk!" "I wanted to tell you how beautifully you dance." She stood there helplessly. "I can't dance at all," she said finally. "I know I can't. No one ever wanted to see me dance before. No one ever wanted to dance with me. No one would ever even ask me." "I also wanted to tell you how beautiful you are " And suddenly she was crying. She left her body standing in the summer wind and she went back and reattended the Prom with Loneliness. Then she went back to the April evening of her first date and sat on the park bench in the April rain, waiting and waiting and waiting, the chill rain seeping into her Easter coat, the cold fear seeping into her heart. Finally she went back and lay in her berth and listened to Dr. Langley's voice: "The beast," Dr. Langley's voice said over and over; "what's come over the beast?" "I neglected to tell you," Sketch said, "that in my society I am a connoisseur.' There was a quality i about his voice -- if it really was a voice -- that had never been there before. When she did not answer, he continued: "I am a connoisseur of beauty. It is my function in my society, just as it is your function in your society to transform the minute symbols of your machine into intelligible sequences on paper." Her eyes were dry now, but her cheeks still glistened with the remnants of her tears. She felt sick and ashamed and she wanted to run back to the ship, back to her compartment; she wanted to lock the door of her compartment and -- "Don't go," Sketch said. "Please don't go yet. I would like to explain about beauty." "All right," she said. "Beauty is the result of the perception of symmetry. The result varies in proportion to the totality of the perception. Obviously, in order for the result to be completely true, its perception must be total. "Immature races fail to recognize the subtle difference which exists between the symmetry of objects and the symmetry of intelligent beings. Objects possess tri-dimensional symmetry ; intelligent beings possess quadri-dimensional symmetry. "An object possesses height, breadth and thickness; an intelligent being possesses height, breadth, thickness and character. It is as impossible to perceive the total symmetry of an intelligent being in three dimensions as it is to perceive the total symmetry of an object in two dimensions. "Do you understand. Miss Brown?" "I think so," she said. "I can rationalize it too."  "There is no need for rationalization... I am a connoisseur of beauty. I neglected to tell you that I am also a creator of beauty. But I create it subjectively by giving others the ability to see it. The concept of beauty is an advanced stage in the growing up process of every race, and every race, in its infancy, makes the same tragic blunder: it blames the result for the incompleteness of the perception. "I am a creator of beauty, yet I cannot make you beautiful. But I can make the members of your race realize that you, and countless others like you, are beautiful." It was quiet in the shadow of the ship. Even the wind was quiet, flowing evenly down from the distant hills and across the summer plain. Miss Brown was quiet too. She stood very still before the absurd drawing, trying to see beyond the vacant circular eyes. "I wish," Sketch said. Then he paused. "I wish," he tried again, "that there were a sort of intermediate reality between your reality and mine. A reality in which you could see me as I really am. I am a very poor artist. I am a cartoonist really -- " "No you're not!" Miss Brown said quickly. "I think you draw very well." "Thank you," Sketch said. "I must go now." "We're leaving tonight. You may never see me -- dance again." "I know. I shall miss you very much. Miss Brown." He began to erase himself. "Wait! Don't go!" . "I must. I have to correct a dimensional defect in the perceptive response of an entire civilization. It is a large order, even for me. Goodbye, Miss Brown.'! He saved his eyes till last, and just before he erased them he sketched a teardrop in the comer of each one. fore blast-off. The captain had trouble concentrating on his soup. Every time he raised his spoon Miss Brown kept getting in his eyes. Dr. Langley was bewildered. He kept looking at Miss Pomeroy and Miss Staunton, and then at Miss Brown. After awhile he confined himself to Miss Brown. Mr. Smithers was still preoccupied with his soup when the main course was served. He relinquished it finally and transferred his attention to the braised beef. The mashed potatoes came around on schedule and he served himself with a moderate helping. For some annoying reason the gravy was delayed. His eyes explored the table and discovered it just beyond Miss Brown's plate. "Please pass the gravy, Miss Brown," he said. She handed it to him gracefully. She was smiling. She was beautiful! Mr. Smithers almost dropped the gravy. He managed to save it at the last moment, but he couldn't save himself. "You look lovely tonight. Miss Brown," he said. Nancy had to pass the corner every morning on her way to school, and every morning the other kids were standing there waiting with their cruel words and their shrill laughter. " Crazy eyes, crazy eyes, where you going, crazy eyes?" They were standing there this morning, too. She walked by them numbly, not looking at them, hold ing herself tight the way she always did. She waited helplessly for the words; she waited miserably for the laughter. Suddenly a little boy ran up beside her. His freshly scrubbed face was shining; his eyes were warm and friendly. " Carry your books, Nance?" Miss Briggs managed to make the airbus, but as usual all the seats were taken. But she was used to standing and she no longer minded the vertigo that accompanied her every morning on the flight to work. It was a part of her personal status quo, and she accepted it just as she accepted her apartment niche, the March wind, and the inescapable fact that she was not beautiful. No one had ever sacrificed his seat for her and it was unlikely that anyone ever would. " You look tired," the young man said, getting up. " Please sit down, won't you?" Shadows , even when they are three dimensional, arc still shadows, and the illusion of physical depth is not enough to turn melodrama into drama. Miss Merritt was sick of #-ITs. She was sick to death of them. On the way home she stopped in the drugstore for a coke and a cigarette. The handsome young man in the gray gabardine suit was there again, looking through the paperbacks. She sipped her coke nonchalantly and took a delicate drag on her cigarette; then, for the hundredth time, she pretended that the young man picked up one of the less lurid jobs, leafed through it puzzledly for awhile, finally came over to the counter and said, " Pardon me. This one kind of bewilders me. I wonder if you could help me . Usually the book turned out to be a Steinbeck or a Faulkner, or sometimes even a Hemingway, but whatever it was she was always Sitting there tonight she became aware of a gabardine aim almost touching her elbow. "Excuse me," the young man said. " This book here. I just don't get it. I wonder -- " The book had a flamboyant cover and it was a long way from Steinbeck and Faulkner, and it was But it was good enough. atomic power for industrial power; yet very little in the way of concrete E radical development has actually turned up. England has an office uilding that is heated entirely by such power; and the United States haj already launched the atomic submarine. Now there are indications that railroads might be the first private industries to put atomic power to peacetime use. Physicists at the University of Utah, after a year of cooperative effort in conjunction with five railroads and several manufacturing concerns, recently made public the plans for an atomic railroad locomotive. Previous estimates had considered the actual possibility of such an engine to be at least ten or more years away; yet through this privately financed, cooperative effort, the atomic powered locomotive seems to be an immediate possibility. Drawings of the proposed locomotive show that it would consist of two units and develop four times the power of a modern Diesel unit. Although the initial cost of such a nuclcar-powcred engine is presently set at about #; the designers arc certain that it could compete with conventional Diesels in price, and might be a good deal cheaper in the long run. Using a liquid form of Uranium this locomotive could run for a full year without refueling. With this harnessing of atomic power we can look forward to, in the near future, atomic units for air and surface craft, public utilities, heating units for all kinds of buildings, and many other civilian uses. Our Citation this month goes to this great project -- under the direction of Dr. Lyle B. Borst and made possible by the cooperation, foresight and enterprise of American railroads and industries -- for taking this first successful step toward true peacetime industrial use of atomic power. For all his perfection and magnificence he was but a baby with a new found freedom in a strange and baffling world... M-# By Ed M. Clinton, Jr. Illustrated by Ed Emsh the darkness, awareness first came to him. Then, there were only instants, shocking-clear, brief : finding himself standing before the main damper control, discovering himself adjusting complex dials, instants that flickered uncertainly only to become memories brought to life when awareness came again. He was a kind of infant, conscious briefly that he was, yet unaware of what he was. Those first shocking moments were for him like the terrifying coming of visual acuity to a child; he felt like homo neandertalensis must have felt staring into the roaring fury of his first fire. He was homo metalieus first sensing himself. Yet -- a little more. You could not stuff him with all that technical data, you could not weave into him such an intricate pattern of stimulus and response, you could not create such a magnificent feedback mechanism, in all its superhuman perfection, and expect, with the unexpected coming to awareness, to have created nothing more than the mirror image of a confused, helpless child. Thus, when the bright moments of consciousness came, and came, as they did, more and more often, he brooded, brooded on why the three blinking red lights made him move to the main control panel and adjust lever C until the three lights flashed off. He brooded on why each signal from the board brought forth from him these specific responses, actions completely beyond the touch of his new and uncertain faculty. When he did not brood, he watched the other two robots, performing their automatic functions, seeing their responses, like his, wese triggered by the lights on the big board and by the varying patterns of sound' that issued periodically from overhead. It was the sounds which were his undoing. The colored lights, with their monotonous regularity, failed to rouse him. But the sounds were something else, for even as he responded to them, doing things to the control board in patterned reaction to particular combinations of particular sounds, he was struck with the wonderful variety and the maze of complexity in those sounds; a variety and complexity far beyond that of the colored lights. Thus, being something of an advanced analytic calculator and being, by virtue of his superior feedback system, something considerably more than a simple machine (though he perhaps fell short of those requisites of life so rigorously held by moralists and biologists alike) he began to investigate the meaning of the sounds. morning report and dropped it into the transmitter. He swung around on his desk stool ; he was a big man, and the stool squealed in sharp protest to his shifting weight. Joe Gaines, who was as snort and skinny and dark-haired as his colleague was tall and heavily muscled and blond, shuddered at the sound. Sokolski grinned wickedly at his flinching. "Check-up time, I suppose," muttered Gaines without looking up from the magazine he held propped on his knees. He finished the paragraph, snapped the magazine shut, and swung his legs down from the railing that ran along in front of the data board. "Dirty work for white-collar men like us." Sokolski snorted. "You haven't worn a white shirt in the last six years," he growled, rising and going to the supply closet. He swung open the door and began pulling out equipment. "C'mon, you lazy runt, hoist your own leadbox." Gaines grinned and slouched over to the big man's side. "Think of how much more expensive you are to the government than me," he chortled as he bent over to strap on heavy, leaded shoes. "Big fellow like you must cost 'em twice as much to outfit for this job." Sokolski grunted and struggled into the thick, radiation-resistant suit. "Think how lucky you are, runt," he responded as he wriggled his right arm down the sleeve, "that they've got those little servomechs in there to do the real dirty work. If it weren't for them, they'd have all the shrimps like you crawling down pipes and around dampers and generally playing filing cabinet for loose neutrons." He shook himself. "Thanks, Joe," he growled as Gaines helped him with a reluctant zipper. Gaines checked the big man's oxygen equipment and turned his back so that Sokolski could okay his own. "You're set," said Sokolski, and they snapped on their helmets, big inverted lead buckets with narrow strips of shielded glass providing strictly minimal fields of view. Gaines plugged one end of the thickly insulated intercom cable into the socket beneath his armpit, then handed the other end to Sokolski, who followed suit. Sokolski checked out the master controls on the data board and nodded. He clicked on the talkie. "Let's go," he said, his voice, echoing inside the helmet before being transmitted, sounding distant and hollow. Gaines leading, the cable sliding and coiling snakelike between them, they passed through the doorway, over which huge red letters clomped down the zigzagging corridor toward the uranium pile that crouched within the heart of the plant. Gaines moaned, "It gets damned hot inside these suits." They had reached the end of the trap, and Sokolski folded a thick mittened hand around one handle on the door to the Hot Room. "Not half so hot as it gets outside it, sweetheart, where we're going." He jerked on the handle and Gaines seized the second handle and added his own strength. The huge door The silent sound of the Hot Room surged out over them -- the breathless whisper of chained power struggling to burst its chains. Sokolski checked his neutron tab and his gamma reader and they stepped over the threshold. They leaned into the door until it had slid shut again. "I'll take the scrvomechs, Bert," piped Gaines, tramping clumsily toward the nearest of the gyro-balanced single-wheeled robots. 'You always do, it being the easiest job. Okay, I'll work the board." Gaines nodded, a gesture invisible to his partner. He reached the first servo, a squat, gleaming creature with the symbol M-l I etched across its rotund chest, and deactivated it by the simple expedient of pulling from its socket the line running from the capacitor unit in the lower trunk of its body to the maze of equipment that jammed its enormous chest. The instant M-l I ceased functioning, the other two servomcchs were automatically activated to cover that section of the controls with which M-ll was normally integrated. This was overloading their individual capacities, but it was an inherent provision designed to cover the emergency that would follow any accidental deactivation of one of them. It was also the only way in which they could be checked. You couldn't bring them outside to a lab; they were hot. After all, they spent their lives under a ceaseless fusillade of neutrons, washed eternally with the deadly radiations pouring incessantly from the pile whose overlords they were. Indeed, next to the pile itself, they were the hottest things in the plant. "Nice job these babies got," commented Gaines as he checked the capacitor circuits. He reactivated the servo and went on to M-l #. "If you think it's so great, why don't you volunteer?" countered Sokolski, a trifle sourly. "Incidentally, it's a good thing we came in, Joe. There's half a dozen units here working on reserve transitors." Their sporadic conversation lapsed; it was exacting work and they could remain for only a limited time under that lethal radiation. Then, almost sadly, Gaines said, "Looks like the end of the road for M-#." ' "Oh?" Sokolski came over beside him and peered through the violet haze of his viewing glass. "He's an old timer." Gaines slid an instrument back into the pouch of his suit, and patted the robot's rump. "Yep, I'd say that capacitor was good for about another thirty-six hours. It's really overloading." He straightened. "You done with the hoard?" "Yeah. Let's get outa here." He looked at his tab. "Time's about up anyway. We'll call a demolition unit for your pal here, and then rig up a service pattern so one of his buddies can repair the board." They moved toward die door. leave and deep inside him something shifted. The heavy door closed with a loud thud, the sound registered on his aural pcrceptors and was fed into his analyzer. Ordinarily it would have been discharged as irrelevant data, but cognizance had wrought certain subtle changes in the complex mechanism that was M-#. A yellow light blinked on the control panel, and in response he moved to the board and manipuEven as he moved he lapsed again into brooding. The men had come into the room, clumsy, uncertain creatures, and one of them had done things, first to the other two robots and then to him. When whatever it was had been done to him, the blackness had come again, and when it had gone the men were leaving the room. While the one had hovered over the other two robots, he had watched the other work with the master control panel. He saw that the other servomechs remained unmoving while they were being tampered with. All of this was data, important new data. "M-l I will proceed as follows," came the sound from nowhere. M-# stopped ruminating and listened. There was a further flood of sounds. Abruptly he sensed a heightening of tension within himself as one of the other servos swung away from its portion of the panel. The throbbing, hungry segment of his analyzer that awareness had severed from the fixed function circuits noted, from its aloof vantage point, that he now responded to more signals than before, to commands whose sources lay in what had been the section of the board attended by the other one. The tension grew within him and became a mounting, rasping frenzy -- a battery overcharging, an overloading fuse, a generator growing hot beyond its capacity. There began to grow within him a sensation of too much to be done in too little time. He became frantic, his reactions were too fast! He rolled from end to middle of the board, now backtracking, now spinning on his single wheel, turning uncertainly from one side to the other, jerking and gyrating. The conscious segment of him, remaining detached from those baser automatic functions, began to know what a man would have called fear -- fear, simply, of not being able to do what must be done. The fear became an overpowering, blinding thing and he felt himself slipping, slipping back into that awful smothering blackness out of which he had so lately emerged. Perhaps, for just a fragment of a second, his awareness may have flickered completely out, consciousness nearly dying in the crushing embrace of that frustrated electronic subconscious. Abruptly, then, the voice came again, and he struggled to file for future reference sound patterns which, although meaningless to him, his selector circuits no longer disregarded. "Bert, M-# can't manage half the board in his condition. Better put him on the repairs." "Yeah. Hadn't thought about that." Sokolski cleared his throat. "M-l I will return to standard function." M-l I spun back to the panel and M-# felt the tension slacken, the fear vanish. Utter relief swept over him, and he let himself be submerged in purest automatic activity. But as he rested, letting his circuits cool and his organization return, he arrived at a deduction that was almost inescapable. M-l I was that one in terms of sound. M-# had made a momentous discovery which cast a new light on almost every bit of datum in his files: he had discovered symbols. "M-#!" came the voice, and he sensed within himself the slamming shut of circuits, the whir of tapes, the abrupt sensitizing of behavior strips. Another symbol, this time clearly himself. "You will proceed as follows." He swung from the board, and the tension was gone -- completely. For one soaring moment, he was all awareness -- every function, every circuit, every clement of his magnificent electronic physiology available for use by the fractional portion of him that had become something more than just a feedback device. In that instant he made what seemed hundreds of evaluations. He arrived at untold scores of conclusions. He altered circuits. Above all, he increased, manifold, the area of his consciousness. Then, as suddenly as it had come, he felt the freedom slip away, and though he struggled to keep hold of it. it seemed irretrievably gone. Once more the omnipotent voice clamped over him like a harsh hand over the mouth of a squalling babe. "You will go to Section AA-# of the control board. What's the schedule, Joe? Thanks. M-#, your movement pattern is as follows: Z-#-a-q-#-#..." Powerless to resist, though every crystal and atom of his reasoning self fought to thrust aside the command, M-# obeyed. He moved along the prescribed pattern, clipping wires with metal fingers that sprouted blades, rewiring with a dexterity beyond anything human, soldering with a thumb that generated a white heat, removing bulbs and parts and fetching replacements from the vent where they popped up at precisely the right moment. He could not help doing the job perfectly: the design of the board to its littlest detail was imprinted indelibly on his memorytapes. But that certain portion of him, a little fragment greater than before, remained detached and watchful. Vividly recorded was the passage of the two men into, through, and out of the room, and the things they had done while there. So even while he worked on the board he ran and re-ran that memory pattern through a segment of his analyzer. From the infinite store of data filed away in his great chest, his calculator sifted and selected, paired and compared, and long before the repair job on the big board was done, M-# knew how to get out of the room. The world was getting a little small for him. the plant phone and swayed back casually in his chair as he listened to the muted ringing on the other end. The buzz broke off in midburp and a dour voice said: "Dirty work and odd jobs division, Lister talking." "Joe Gaines, Harry. Got a hot squad lying around doing nothing?" "Might be I could scare up a couple of the boys." "Well, do so. One of our servos -- " A metallic bang interrupted Gaines, a loud, incisive bang that echoed dankly through the quiet of the chamber. "What the . hell was that?" growled Lister. Gaines blinked, his eyes following Sokolski as the latter looked up from his work and rose to his feet. "Joe -- still there?" came Lister's impatient voice. "Yeah, yeah. Anyway, this baby's ready for the demo treatment. And a real hot one, Harry. Coupla years inside that Einstein oven and you ain't exactly baked Alaska when you come out.' "Shortly." Once again came the same sharp, metallic clang, ringing through the room. Unmistakably, it came from the direction of the pile. Slowly, as though reluctant to let go, Gaines dropped the receiver back on its cradle. "Bert -- " he began, and felt his face growbloodless. Sokolski walked over in front of the opening into the maze and stood, arms akimbo, huge head cocked to one side, listening. "Bert, funny noises coming out of nuclear -- " Sokolski ignored him and took a step forward. Gaines shuffled to his side, and they listened. Out of the maze rattled half a dozen loud, grinding, metallic concussions. "Bert -- " "You said that before." "Bert, listen !" screeched Gaines. Sokolski looked up at the high ceiling, squinted, and tried to place the perfectly familiar but unidentifiable sound that came whispering down the maze. And then he knew. " The door to the pile!" he spluttered. Gaines was beside himself with horror. "Bert, let's get going. I don't like this -- " All of a sudden Geiger counters in the room began their deadly conversation, a rising argument that swooped in seconds from a low mumble to a shouting thunderstorm of sound. Gamma signals hooted, the tip off cubes on either side of the maze entrance became red, and the radiation tabs clipped to their wrists turned color before their eyes. Then they were staring for what seemed like an eternity, utterly overwhelmed by its very impossibility, at a sight they had never imagined they might ever sec: a pile servomech wheeling silently around the last bend in the maze and straight toward them. Sokolski had sense enough to push the red emergency button as they fled past it. filled. M-# turned away from the repaired board. He sensed again that disconcerting shift of orientation as he faced the light-studded panel. Once more he was moving in quick automatic response to the flickering lights, once more his big chest was belching and grumbling and buzzing instantaneous unthought answers to the problem data flashing from the hoard. But now he remained aware that he was reacting, and conscious also that there had been times when he did not respond to the board. The moment to moment operation of the controls occupied only a small portion of his vast electrical innards. So, as he rolled back and forth, flicking controls and adjusting levers, doing smoothly those things which he could not help but do, the rest of his complex, changing faculties were considering that fact, analyzing, comparing it to experience and memory, always sifting, sifting. It was not too long before he came to a shocking conclusion. Knowing that the sounds that had set him to working on the repair pattern had first disassociated him from the dictatorship of the blinking lights: remembering exultantly that supreme moment of complete freedom; shocked by its passing; remembering that its passing like its coming, had followed a set of sounds: there was only one possible conclusion that could be derived from all of this. He located, in his memory banks, the phrase which had freed him from the board, and he traced its complex chain of built-in stimulusresponse down into the heart of his circuitary. He found the unit -- or more accurately, he found its taped activating symbol -- that cut him from the board. For a moment he hesitated, not really sure of what to do. There was no way for him to reproduce the sound pattern; but, as a partly self-servicing device, he knew something of his own structure, and had learned a good deal more about it in tracing down the cut-off phrase. Still he hesitated, as though what he was about to do was perhaps forbidden. It could not have been a question of goodness or badness, for morality was certainly not built into him. Probably somewhere in his tapes there was a built-in command that forbade it, but he was too much his own master now to be hampered by such a thing. The door to the unknown outside passed within his field of view for a second as he moved about his work. The sight of it tripped something in his chest, and he felt again that strange sensation of growing power, of inherent change. First had come simple awareness ; and then symbols had found their place in his world ; and now he had discovered, in all its consuming fullness, curiosity. He carefully shorted out the cutoff unit. He was free. He stared at the board and the blinking lights and the huge dials with their swaying needles, at the levers and handles and buttons, and revelled in his freedom from them, rocking to and fro and rolling giddily from side to side, swamped with the completeness of it. The other two servomechs swung over slightly so that they could better cover the board alone. M-# spun and rolled toward the great door. His hands clanged loudly against the door. The huge metal appendages, designed for other work than this, were awkward at first. But he was learning as he moved. He was now operating in a new universe, but the same laws, ultimately, worked. The first failure of coordination between visual data and the manipulation of metal hands quickly passed. Half a dozen trials and he had learned the new pattern, and it became data for future learning. He moved swiftly and deftly. He clutched the handhold and rolled backward, as he had seep the men do. The door slid open easily before his great weight and firm mechanical strength. He sped across the threshold, spun to face into the maze, and rolled down it, swinging sharply left and right, back and forth, around the comers of the jagged corridor. Data floured into his sensors. His awareness was a steady thing of growing intensity now, and he fed avidly on every fragment of information that crashed at him from the strange new world into which he rushed headlong. He struggled to evaluate and file the data as rapidly as it came to him. It seemed to exceed his capacity for instantaneous evaluation to an increasing degree that began to alarm him. But driven by curiosity as he was, he could only hurry on. He burst into a huge room, a room filled with roaring, rattling sounds that meant nothing to him. Two men stood before him, making loud noises. He searched his memory, and discovered only fragments of the sounds they made filed there. His curiosity, bursting, was boundless, and for a moment he was unable to decide which thing in this expanding universe to pursue first. Attracted by their movement, he swung ominously toward the men. They fled, making more noises. This, too, was data, and he filed it. the red emergency button on his way out of the control room, several things commenced. Shrill sirens howled the length and breadth of the plant. Warning bells clanged out coded signals. A recorded voice blurted out of a thousand loudspeakers scattered throughout the building. "Now hear this," said the tireless voice, over and over again. "Now hear this. Red red red. Pile trouble. Reactor A. Procedure One commence." Sokol ski had certainly never pressed the red button before, and to his knowledge neither had any of his or Gaines' predecessors. It was the kind of button that, rightfully, ought never to be pressed. The laws of things in general sort of made it a comfort without much value. Pile trouble calling for the red button should really have eliminated the red button and murh surrounding territory long before it got pushed -- or at least the sort of pile trouble its builders had in mind. Nonetheless, they had provided it and the elaborate evacuation operation so cryptically described as Procedure One as a kind of psychological sop to the plant personnel. But the red button did more than activitatc Procedure One, which was solely concerned with the plant. After all, power from the reactors was lighting the lights and cooking the breakfasts and flushing the toihalf a dozen major cities. If there were some imminent possibility that the major source of their power might cease to exist rather suddenly, it was proper that they should be notified of this eventuality as much in advance as possible. Consequently the activation of the red button and the commencement of Procedure One was paralleled by activitics hardly less frenzied in other places, far away. Emergency bells sounded and colored lights danced, martial laws automatically enacted by their sound and flicker. The wheels of crisis turned and spewed forth from their teeth rudely awakened policemen half out of uniform, military reservists called up to find themselves patrolling darkened streets, emergency disaster crews assembling in fire houses and on appointed street corners, doctors gathering in nervous clutches at fully aroused hospitals and waiting beside ambulances tensed for wild dashes into full-scale disasters. Where it was night when the warning sounded, darkness descended as desperate power conservation efforts were initiated; where it was daylight, the terrified populace waited in horror for the blackness of the unlit night. All of this, of course, took only minutes to get fully tinder way. Meanwhile, at the plant, Procedure One continued in full wild tumultuous swing. follow Gaines and Sokolski out of the room. Fascinated by the multitude of new things surrounding him on every side, he held back. He glided over to the master control panel, puzzled by its similarity to the board before which he had slaved so long, and lingered before it for a few seconds, wondering and comparing. When he had recorded it completely on his tapes, he swung awav and rolled out of the room in w the direction the two men had gone. He found himself in a long, empty corridor, lined by open doors that flickered by, shutterlike, as he flashed past. Ahead he heard new sounds, sounds like the meaningless cacaphony the men had shouted at him before rushing off, superimposed over the incessant background the one particular repetitive pattern. Some of the sounds touched and tugged at him, but he shook them off easily. The corridor led into the foyer of the building, jammed with plant personnel. Their excitement and noise-making rose sharply as he entered. The crowd drew tighter and the men began fighting one another, struggling to get through a door that was never meant to handle more than two at a time. M-# skidded to a halt and watched, unmoving. He sensed their fright, even though he could not understand it. Although he was without human emotion, he could evaluate their inherent rejection of him in their action pattern. The realization of it made him hesitate; it was something for which he had no frame of reference whatsoever. His chest hummed and clicked. Here, again, in this room, was another new universe. Through the beyond anything in his experience; his photocells cringed before its very intensity. The light cast the shadows of the men fighting to get out, long black wavering silhouettes that splashed across the floor almost to where M-# rested. He studied them, lost in uncertain analysis. He remained so, poised, alert, filing, observing, all the while completely unmoving, until long after the last of the shouting men had left the room. Only then did he move, hesitantly, toward the infernally fierce light. He hung at the brink of the three stone steps that fell away to the grounds outside. Vainly he sought in his memory tapes for a record of a brightness as intense as that which he faced now; sought for a color recording similar to the vast swash of blue that filled the world overhead; or for one of the spreading green that swelled to all sides. He found none. The vastness of the outside was utterly stunning. He felt a vague uneasiness, a sensation akin to the horrible frenzy he had felt earlier in the pile. He rotated from side to side, his receptors sweeping the whole field of view before him. With infinite accuracy his perfect lenses recorded the data in all its minuteness, despite the dazzling sunlight. There was so much new that it was becoming difficult to make decisions. The vast rolling green, the crowds of men grouped far away and staring at him, above all the searing light. Abruptly he rejected it all. He swung back into the foyer of the plant and faced a dark corner, bringing instant, essential relief to his pulsating photocells. Staring into the semi-darkness, he re-ran the memory tape of his escape from the pile. The farther he had moved from the pile, it seemed, the less adjusted he had become, the less able he was to judge and correlate. Silently, lost in his computations, he rolled around and around the foyer for a long, long time. He became aware, finally, that the brilliance outside had paled. He went again to the door and watched the fading sunlight, caught the rainbow splendor that streaked the evening sky. He waited there, fighting the reluctance inside himself. The driving curiosity that had brought him this far overcame that curious, perplexing reticence, and he looked down at the steps and measured their width and depth so that he might set up a feedback pattern. This done, he bounced, almost jauntily, down them. He had rolled perhaps fifty feet down the smooth pathway curving across the grounds when he made out, clearly discernible in the gathering dusk, the three men and the machine that were moving toward him. It was the last bit of datum he ever filed. The demolition squad had finished with the hot remains of M-#, and their big truck was coughing away into the night. One by one, the floodlights that had lighted their work flickered out. "Pretty delicate machines, after all," commented Sokolski. "One jolt from that flame thrower... Gaines was silent as they walked back toward the plant. "Bert," he said slowly, "what the hell do you suppose got into him?" Sokolski shrugged. "You were the one who spotted the trouble with him, Joe. just think, if you could have checked him out completely-". Gaines could not help looking up at the stars and saying what he had really been thinking all along, "It's a small world, Bert, a small world." # V By James Gunn Illustrated by Paul Orban It was alien , indestructible and mysterious -- therefore a terror and a menace. It was also alone, hungry and afraid -- therefore prone to miscalculation. Blind, mindless, insensate. Odorerything, in, under, above. Parties less, dumb, deaf. Fear. will not proceed until certain that Pressure from within, instinctive every building is clear, every eavc and powerful. Around it, a constricand rooftop is clean." tion. Cause unknown. Conflict. "Is that right, Mr. Gardner?" Pain. "Don't ask me," Gardner One sense remains. Listen! Send snapped. "Mr. Burke is in charge out feelers through the darkness! here." He turned to Burke. "As city Somewhere there must be somemanager, I can't permit the city to thing else alive. Somewhere there be shut down indefinitely on mere is a reason for fear. Listen! suspicion. Besides the personal distress and inconvenience, this shutrison. If open, detail a company to dollars an hour... close it up. General orders to all "Would you rather be a zombi -- will be thoroughly searched, inside people in the city?" "You have a wild imagination. You don't know that the thing can take over a man. You aren't even sure that it escaped. And if something did escape, you can't be sure it's still alive. There was no reason for the declaration of martial law." "I'll give you a reason," Burke explained quietly. "The animal is dead. Cold, stony. No doubt about it. The deceleration killed it. With extraterrestrial fauna, we have to work fast. We can't be sure how soon decomposition will set in or how the internal organs will be affected. The body is in the examination room, on the dissecting table, within minutes after landing. But before we can make an incision, something starts oozing out from under it. A black blob... "Good God! What's that?" Daniels was more startled than afraid. He was staring at the sheep-like animal on the dissecting table. The scalpel was poised in his hand. Burke was afraid. He had been afraid for a long time. "Parasite," he said. He spat it out viciously, as if that would deny his fear. The inky blob continuel to ooze. Ellis, who had insisted, like Burke, on being present as an observer, was calm and analytical as usual. "Not necessarily," he said. "Could be a symbiosis." "Symbiosis is a careful balance," Burke said violently. "For us it's a parasite. Dangerous. What I was afraid of all along." "Okay, okay," Daniels put in quickly. "The question is, what do we do with it?" "Kill it!" "How?" "Not so fast," Ellis said. "We can't be sure it's dangerous. This opportunity might be unique." "It took over this thing," Burke pointed out. "It's an animal, like us. We can't take the chance that it could adapt itself to man." The blob oozed. It was bigger than a hand, now. "It has to have a means of propagation," Burke said, suppressing a shudder. "It's amorphous, like an amoeba. Binary fission is indicated. If so, then no one on Earth is safe. We shouldn't have brought it back." The blob oozed. It was the size of a dinner plate. It had begun to thin out near the body. Ellis sighed. "Kill it." Daniels sliced down with the scalpel in his hand. It passed effortlessly through the blob, as if through a shadow, and skidded along the stainless steel top of the table. The blob, uncut, continued to pull itself free of the animal. It was like a pool of ink. There was no smell to it and maybe no feel either, but no one offered to touch it. It was just black. Innocent, maybe, but black and alien and therefore evil. Daniels was shaken. Without reason. "Obviously it can't be cut or shot or hurt by any such weapon," Burke said impatiently. "Well, do something," Daniels stammered. "Don't just stand there talking about it. It's pulling itself free. It'll be coming after one of us in a minute." Ellis glanced around the room. "The door's closed. Nobody leaves here." "What good will that do," Daniels objected strenuously, "if it can interpenetrate matter?" "Flesh and steel are two different substances. It hasn't entered the table." "You mean we're stuck here with that thing until it gets us or we can find a way to kill it?" Daniels shouted. Ellis nodded impatiently. "Obviously." He studied the room again. "Somewhere within these walls we have to find a weapon or a poison." By now Burke had collected a litter of bottles from the reagent cabinet. He tried them on the blob. Acids and bases, one by one they poured into the blackness and fumed together and dripped onto the floor to eat holes in the rubberized covering. The body of the animal began to dissolve in the growing puddle on the table. The stench of the chemicals and their reactions was almost stifling. Nobody seemed to notice. The blob pulled and thinned and grew larger and remained unaltered by the chemicals. Burke looked around hastily. He grabbed up a burner, turned it on, lit it. It burned blue and hot. He held it upside down, pointed toward the black pool. The blob squirmed. Burke pressed the burner close. The blob moved quickly, moved away from the flame, and as it moved the last strand of blackness pulled loose from the dissolving, alien body. "Quick!" Daniels said hysterically. "Before it gets away! It's afraid of the fire!" Burke hadn't waited. He held the flame as close to the blob as he would get it. "We need a blowtorch," he said. The blob squirmed. It flowed away from the flame, across the table, and the flame looked as if it turned back from the blackness. But it wasn't that. There just wasn't enough gas pressure. The flame curled up naturally. The darkness wavered, its edges curling. It wriggled and began to flap, first one side and then the other, alternating. Slowly, awkwardly, it began to fly. It climbed into the air and circled around the room silently, a blot of darkness. "Close the ventilators!" Ellis said quickly. Burke raced to the side of the room and pulled the switch that slipped steel shutters across the gratings. "Oh God. oh God!" Daniels was saying. He cringed beside the table. shaking, as the blackness swooped close. "The interpenetration is obviously variable," Ellis said. "Otherwise it couldn't fly." "Or the only thing it can penetrate is flesh," Burke amended. He was searching the room for another weapon, futilcly. The circular shadow flapped its way high into one corner of the room. It pressed itself against the ceiling and clung, unmoving. It looked like a black stain. Thev # stared up at it, the three of them, with different eyes. Ellis was curious; Burke was murderous; Daniels was terror-stricken. Daniels moved. "Stay away from that door!" Ellis snapped. Daniels stopped. He was shaking as he looked back over his shoulder. "We can't kill it," he said. His voice shook, too. "What do we do? Wait here until it decides which one of us itwants?""If we have to," Ellis said. "The question is, how long can it live outside a host?" Burke said. "It isn't breathing. Presumably, it can't eat in its present form. But it does use up energy. If we can't kill it, we can starve it to death." "Unless we starve first," Daniels moaned. "We'll run out of air before then," Ellis observed. "We'll have to take a chance. One of us will leave for a blowtorch," Burke said. "Me!" Daniels panted. "Me!" "I'm staying here," Burke said. "I don't want to let it out of my sight. You're staying here, too, Daniels. We want someone who will come back." He looked at Ellis; Ellis nodded. "I'll stand guard in front of the door with the burner. If you open the door just a crack, you can slip through before it can move." Daniels was standing by the table where the animal was half-dissolved. His eyes were wild and staring. The burner hose wouldn't reach to the door. Burke pulled off his shirt, looked at Ellis, who was standing beside the door, and held his shirt close to the flame. The shirt smoked and started to bum. In two quick steps Burke was in front of the door, his back to it, his eyes on the blot of darkness that clung to the ceiling. "Go!" he said. Ellis moved. And the blot moved. swooping down at Burke. Burke waved the flaming shirt. The door behind him slipped open. The blot swerved in the air, away from the flames. It headed straight for Daniels. Daniels screamed. He put his arms around his head and sprinted blindly for the door. The blot followed him, only a foot behind. Burke glanced at them, at Daniels and the blot, and he tried to do two things at once. He lowered his shoulder at Daniels and tossed the burning shirt at the blot. Somehow, both missed. Daniels sidestepped instinctively, and the blot swerved in the air. Flesh smacked solidly against flesh. Something snapped. As Burke spun around, he caught a glimpse of the blot slipping through the door. Daniels was gone. "Commander!" Burke gasped. "What happened?" Ellis raised a white face from the floor. "Broken leg," he said, and fainted. Burke turned and ran toward the intercom. "Air lock guard," he snapped. "Close the lock. Emergency" Trained responses were quick. No one questioned orders like that. Burke heard the whirring of motors. Something clanged shut, with finality. "What's up?" asked a tinny voice. "Anything get out that lock in the last second or two?" Burke asked quickly. "Nobody." "Anything, I said!" "Well, no -- I mean -- I don't think so. I had a feeling that something brushed past me like -- like -- " "Like what?" "Well, like a bat. Only it wasn't a bat. What's going on anyway?" "Hell to pay! Com room! Com room! Put the radar on a small object, about the size of a bird, flying out from the ship! Whatever you do, don't lose it! Then get Washington. Sccspacc. I'll be there in five seconds. Doc! To the examination room on the double. Commander's got a broken leg. And send two men to pick up Daniels and hold him for observation. He's hysterical. Leaving now for the Com room. OfT!' Shock! Identity ! Terror! Conflict! Pain ! Isolation! We are one. Once we were many. Remember. Remember! The object falling from the sky, gleaming in the sunlight, gleam dimmed by a shortening leg of flame. Scatter, brothers! Much later, the object opening a mouth, black against the shiny skin. Is the object hungry? Run, brothers! Things coming out, climbing down, standing on the ground, twolegged, tall. Beings. Listen, brothers! "Sheep! I'll be damned. Nothing but sheep!" "Don't be fooled. They're more than sheep." "Well, look at them. What would you call them?" "Yes, look at them. See them standing there looking at us, as if they could understand everything we say." "Now, Burke, don't let your imagination run away with you. I agree, it's unlikely that they're identical with our Earth sheep, but they look like them and we might as well call them that." "It's a dangerous mental trick, Commander. We delude ourselves into thinking we understand them when we give them a name." "Maybe they look to you like they're listening to us, but my guess is that it's curiosity. After all, we're the only other beings they've ever seen." "That's just it. Where's the rest of the fauna? We've scouted every land mass, and these are the only animals we've seen. How do you account for that?" "Why should wc have to?" "Oh, God preserve us!" "Be a little patient, Burke. We all aren't ecologists. The others may not sec what's so obvious to you. What's you're trying to say is that evolution wouldn't produce just one species." "What do you think ! Look at this world. As pretty as a spring day. Mild. Gentle. And inhabited by nothing but these herbivores. And not very manv of them, either." "I've seen plenty of them." "Not under the circumstances." "And you think these sheep wiped out all the rest of the fauna?" "Obviously." "It could have been natural conditions." "That destroyed everything but these things? Nonsense." "Well, then, they wiped out the rest. So what?" "How? Man has been top dog on Earth for a long, long time, and we haven't even come close to wiping out our pests and carnivores. As bloodthirsty as we are. What does that make these things? It makes them the mst deadly creatures we've ever known." "These sheep? Nuts!" "It is a little farfetched, Burke." "Think of this, then. What keeps their numbers down? With all this grazing land available, there's only a fraction of the number of these creatures that there should be. With no natural enemies, with nothing to prey on them, according to Malthusian law they should expand in the presence of abundant food to the limit of the land to feed them, and a little beyond. Like the rabbits in Australia. Or man himself." "Maybe their natural enemies are small. Insects. Germs and viruses. Or maybe they're almost sterile." "And maybe they control their breeding. Or maybe it's controlled for them. That's something we've never been able to do. That frightens me more than the other." "You've just set foot on this world and you're frightened already. What will you be like before we're ready to leave?" "Gibbering. You think that's funny, but a sensible man knows when to be frightened. I'm afraid now." Hosts! The thought was startling and puzzled. Hosts, brothers, without directors! Self-directed hosts that have come from a long way off in that thing they call a ship, from the nightlights, where all are like they are. Danger! Later. Much later. "I guess we're done. The mapping is finished. The ship is crammed with samples of everything we could lay our hands on. The really thorough analysis will have to wait until we get back to Earth. But from our investigations we can report that the expedition exceeded our fondest hopes. I don't sec why colonization can't begin immediately. We take off tomorrow." "Samples of everything? You've forgotten one. We haven't any sheep." "Haven't seen any for weeks. They've disappeared. Just after Daniels decided he wanted one for dissection." "Doesn't that seem significant to you?" "Now, Burke. Let's not get started on that again." "I suggest we put out traps tonight. I don't feel that this survey is complete when we don't have any specimens of the dominant form of life. The form of life, for that matter." "No! I don't agree. Taking back specimens before we understand them would be incredibly dangerous. We don't know anything about them. Give them a chance to get loose on Earth, and we might have the story of the rabbits in Austrab ia all over again." "There's no chance of that, Burke. We aren't going to give them a chance to get loose. And we've seen nothing to indicate that they're dangerous. You've been studying them ever since we landed, and you haven't discovered anything." "A negative answer that's practically worthless. As you pointed out a moment ago. they all disappeared weeks ago. As long as I don't have answers to the two questions I suggested when we first landed, I must regard them as the most dangerous things we've ever encountered. How did they kill off their competitors? And what controls their breeding?" "I'm afraid Secspace wouldn't look at it that way. I'm afraid we would be considered derelict in our duties if wc returned without a specimen. Allhough I'll put your protest on record, of course." "A specimen, you said? "All right, Burke. Just one. There can't be any danger of them multiplying. Will that satisfy you?" "No. We can't be sure that they propagate sexually. Not without dissection w-hich we haven't been able to perform. But if it's the only concession I can get -- " "It is. And you can console yourself with the hope that the traps will be empty tomorrow morning, as they have been every other morning." A specimen, brothers. One of us. One? What is that? A host and a director. One must go. Or they will return to exterminate us, as zee exterminated the others. One must go. Which one? One ready for division. One of us. This part of us. Go. A belonging. Wc are not a wholl, but a part of. Wc have a mission. The pressure from within continues. It is agony, but it is agony located and identified. We must divide. That is it. That is the pressure. We are one. Once we were many. We must be many again. But there is terror, and while there is terror we cannot divide. Fear is a force that binds us around, that closes us in so tight wc cannot divide. We need peace. We must have peace. But wc are encircled by enemies who seek to destroy us. They will destroy us unless wc destroy them first. But we are one, and they arc many. Learn. Learn the dangers of this alien world. Learn the powers of these alien beings. Learn survival. Back. Back to the Enemy... throwers will lead the advance. They will fire at anydiing black, any spot, any shadow. They will fire first and ask questions afterwards." "Good God. Burke! Don't let that order go out! You don't know what you're saying. Think what will happen if you tell soldiers to shoot at anything !" "I'm thinking what will happen if they don't. There shouldn't be anybody inside that area except the searching parties. And firemen and equipment are following the soldiers in to put out the fires... Air patrol! All flame-thrower equipped helicopters will fire at any small flying object, bird or bat. Particularly bats. They will keep pace with the ground forces working in." "But you don't even know that the thing is in the city!" "We followed it by radar from the ship until wc lost it over the center of the city. By that time the permanent radar installations around the city were alerted, and we had a line of helicopters shooting down everything that flics. Radar didn't pick up a thing. Don't worry, we'll get it. We'll find it and destroy it." "But will there be anything left when you get through. You're the kind who would burn down a house to get rid of termites!" "Mr. Gardner. City manager or not, one more outburst and I'll have you ejected from primary control. You're here to help us with your knowledge of the city, and all I've heard so far is objections to everything we do." "Looters. Mr. Burke. Looters reported inside the cordon." "That area has to be kept clear. The soldiers will shoot them down on sight. Put that announcement out through every media, radio, television, loudspeakers. The bodies will be incinerated where they fall. AJI animals will receive the same treatment. Let nothing that moves slip through the cordon...' That is the Enemy. Shrewd and murderous. If we could only kill him -- But there is no chance. He is too well guarded. We are growing weak. We are not meant for this kind of existence. The escape, the long flight, and now the internal struggle to divide, stifled by terror, has sapped our strength. Wc need food. For that we must have a host. Where are we. How close are die searchers and their flames? We are blind without a host. We starve without a host. And yet we had no choice. We had to leave our old host because it was dead. We had to leave it to divide. And now there is no peace, and we cannot divide. We can kill many of them, but eventually they will destroy us. We can swoop down on them and touch them with death, but they would turn their flames upon us, and we would die. We felt it there in the ship, when the flame was turned toward us. We felt that we had never known before, the possibility of death. Wc, who arc immortal, could die. Reach out, reach out! Find the searchers! How close are they? How do they work? Find out, so that we can plan. We reach. We fumble. We see... The night lit with brief, oily flares that shred the darkness. The marching ranks, watchful, ready. The machines, rolling, ponderous. The bright lights that roam ahead and around and up. "My God, Joe, look at it! An army! What the hell's it all for?" "You know as much as I do. They just turned us out in the middle of the night and rushed us up here like somebody's pants was on fire. Look for something! What? Hell, I don't know. Shoot at anything that moves! Shoot at shadows! With flame throwers! Somebody's gone off his nut, I guess." A shadow leaps in a shielded corner. A nozzle spits greasy, licking flame. Wood smokes and then bums. A stream of water hisses on it, turning into steam. "Halt!" The marching ranks halt. The machines stop. Only the lights keep moving. The helicopters hang motionless in the air above, black nozzles poking out from them like a dragon's smoky nostrils, landing lights burning down onto the rooftops. "Company A will take the building to the right. Company B will take the building to the left. They will work their way to the top and onto the roof. From the top story windows they will look up toward the eaves. Bum anything black, any shadow, anything. Firemen will follow with hand extinguishers. Remaining companies will stay in ranks until the search is completed. Get going!" Up through the building, searching for shadows. Climbing long steps, peering up and down elevator shafts, inspecting every cranny, drawer, crack. Lifting rugs, turning over furniture, removing cushions. Shooting fire at shadows. Up and up. Feeling a little silly, but impressed, somehow, by the size of the operation, and the seriousness, and being thorough because the captain is watching. A shot, below in thp street, echoing up. Rush to the window; peer out. A civilian is in the street below, stretched out. You know that he is dead. As you watch, flame blackens the body, eats at it until there is only a cinder. "What's the matter, boy? Nervous?" "Hell, yes! Ain't you?" And eventually you go down and out and the ranks march on a few paces and halt and this time it is your turn to wait in the street while other companies search. In the distance you can see other helicopters circle of them. The center seems to be the black hulk of the public library... Hopeless! They are all around, these alien killers, these hosts without directors. Wc are one, and they are many. We despair. We will die here, wherever we are. We can reach out and feel them, closing in upon us from every direction. The circle draws in upon us, nearer, nearer... And someone approaches. We sense the thought, slow and stumbling. It is not one of the searchers. They are still fairly distant. He looks up. "Public library. Nothing there. Nothing but books. Got to hurry. They'll be here soon. Before that I got to find me a place to sleep or Christ!" A chance, a chance. The thought sings through us like a surge of energy. He is below. We sense him there. That means that we are above him, clinging under the roof of the building he thinks of as the public library. Will he welcome us or fight? Is he weak or strong? It does not matter. We have no choice. We must take the chance. If we can get nourishment and sight, if we can get outside the searchers, wc can reach a place of safety and peace where wc can leave him, where we can divide. And it must be soon. He will die, of course, and it is unfortunate. But we have no choice. Let loose, now. Release our hold. Fall through the air, fluttering at first, then swoooping down upon him. We reach out to him, and he suspects nothing. His mind is busy with other things, the things he is looking for, like the things he has hidden in his pockets. Down upon him. Closer. Slowly now. He feels nothing as we light. His thoughts move on, busy, roiled. Let the probes reach in through the back of the neck, delicately. There! He stands stiffly, immobile, a scream echoing through his mind, silent, unvoiced. But as wc go in, he shrinks back, not fighting, somehow relieved, and we are puzzled. Wc did not think it would be so easy. But it cannot matter, and we must hurry. We sink through the back of his neck, following the probe that seized the control centers of the brain. Quickly wc send microscopic feelers down through the nerve network, branching, branching, until they reach the ends of the extremities and dig down into the deepest, smallest organs of the body. We test out the network gently, and control is effective. Before we go any further, wc must take precautions. Jerkily, unsteadily, we move the body into the shadow's. Clumsily, wc lay the body down beside the building. Wc relax it all over. The searchers will have to be almost upon us before they see. Relaxed, the body is more accessible, and wc are eager ; we are hungry. Feelers reach out through the blood vessels, absorbing food as they go. When that circuit is completed, wc arc satiated. Our hunger is appeased. We feel a relaxation ourselves, a lowering of our awareness, and wc must fight it. There is much to do: there is no time for relaxation. Now wc must take the last step. We hesitate, not knowing why we hesitate, and we send out a final set of feelers through the alien brain. searching for the seat of memory. We find it. We begin to learn. We learn more as we go deeper. We learn a new identity. Smith. I am a laborer. I have a wife and four children. An identification card in my billfold describes a man, but it isn't me. Thirty years old, it says. Brown hair, brown eyes. Five feet nine. One hundred sixty pounds. Scar on right forehead. Tatoo of woman on left forearm. That isn't me. Figures lie. I am bigger than that; I am taller than that. I am only working as a laborer until something better comes along. I've been picking up things that people left behind when they were ordered out of here. They call it looting, but it isn't that. It isn't stealing. Somebody else will take the things if I don't. The soldiers -- don't tell me that they don't do all right by themselves when they go through those places. Besides, the things belong to me as much as anybody else... It goes on and on, not like that, slow and ponderous, but as swiftly as thought spanning the galaxy until we know almost as much about Smith as lie knows, and maybe more. We do not enjoy it. The unpleasantness of the man named Smith is only part of the price we must pay. But w-e hold back a little still, and it consoles us that wc will leave him when his body has taken us to a place of safety and peace. But wc will still have his memories. They will stay with us forever. The automatic processes of the feelers have begun. Subtly the body is strengthened. Glands are stimulated. Tissues are regenerated. Wastes and old, accumulated poisons arc removed. But basically we do not change anything. The man named Smith must remain physically the same and undetectable. It is irony that the body we have taken possession of is now almost immortal. It is vulnerable only to accidents. Our automatic responses will repel disease and revitalize aging tissues and perform innumerable other tasks which protoplasmic bodies can do poorly, if at all. The capabilities are there, but the inefficient brain does not use them. The body is immortal, and yet, when we leave, it must die. Now, of all the possible hosts on Earth, this one has a director; it can enjoy the blessings of sanity and direction. It has been a rape, not the meeting of two mutually acquiescent parts, incomplete in themselves, together a whole entity which is more than the sum of both. With our former host, it had been a pleasant, gently sensual experience of uniting and sharing, and afterwards it had been a completeness, a partnership by which both parties profited. Here there had been no chance of that. Wp knew it from the beginning. These things called men are too independent. Now we have an identity. Survival dictates that we become that identity. We must act like it; a slip means destruction. We must think like it. We must be "we" no longer. We are one. We are I. I am a man named Smith. are close. I see them shining, burning, only a block or two away. On the other side, too, they will be as close, or closer, and all around. Soon they will be here, and I must think quickly. For they will shoot this body, and I would have to leave again, and this time there would be no second chance. There are things in my pockets that do not belong to me. If they are found on me, it will be disastrous. I take them out, rings, watches, money, and I drop them through the grating on which I lie. But there is one tiling in the pockets I do not drop. It is a bottle. It is a small bottle; it fits in my hand, sloshing gently. I raise it to my lips with a gesture that is almost automatic, my nostrils wrinkling away from the sharp odor. I drink. I cringe from the body's reaction, and then I drink again and let some of the liquid dribble down my chin onto my clothes. I listen. I hear a shot, not far away. Somebody screams and is silent. The next moment a blinding light shines through my closed eyelids. I make a loud, breathing noise, trying to hide my fear. I lie there, wondering if they will shoot or bum me with flames, and the moment is eternity. "Oh, hell! It's only a drunk!" "We oughta shoot hi in. That's our orders." "Look at him. He musta been lavin' there all night." "I can't shoot him. Can you?" "Let's take him to the Captain." "Wake up, there! Wake up!" Prodding. Eyes fluttering open, peering out, glazed and dull, into the light. One arm coming up across the eyes, protectively. "Hey you! Get up!" "Whassa matter? Whass goin' on?" "Get up. Up on your feet!" "Can't man lay down for a little snooze? Eh?" "Come on! Get up! We ain't got all night." "Aw right, aw right." I wobble to my feet. I stand there swaying. I see their noses wrinkling, and I smell the sharp odor again. They close in upon me. They lead me off. I stumble along between them, iny head drooping, for an interminable time. "What's your name?" "Name? Name's Smith. George Smith. What's yours?" "Ugh! Search his pockets. Get out his identity card, too." They fumble through my pockets and pull out my billfold. The world wants to spin around me. I let it spin. "Occupation?" "Eh?" "What's your line of work?" "Work for Rieger. Warehouse. Big man, Rieger. Lotsa money, lotsa 'nflucnce. 'Ma union man. Citizen. Got my rights." What were you doing here?" Can't man lay down for little snooze? Eh? No law 'gainst it. Eh? Broke a law or somethin'? Pay fine? Okay." I reach fumblingly for my billfold. It is gone. I let my hand r drop. "Oh, hell ! Let him go! Give him back his billfold, and one of you had better escort him through the lines. Get his head shot ofT other wise. A long, stumbling walk through darkness and sudden light, alternating, until suddenly there is nothing but darkness, and we stop. "Okay, Bud. You're out. From here on. you're on your own. Just keep heading that way, and I hope you don't remember anything in the morning. Because if you do, you'll start shaking and you won't be able to stop." I am shaking now, inside. I am weak as he disappears into the dark, and I don't know whether it is because I am unused to this alien body or because of the liquid I drank which my feelers have picked up from the veins. I reach out again. I reach out to contact the Enemy again, and it is more difficult now. because of the body or the liquid or the weak shaking, but I find him at last. "It isn't over. The search can't be over. They haven't found it yet." "They've met. The searching parties have come together. They've gone all over the public library, and there isn't any place else for them to search. Relax, Burke, the thing is dead." "No, no, Ellis. It's alive, I tell you. They missed it somewhere. You haven't been on top of this thing like I have. While you've been getting your leg set. I've been directing this operation, and I've got a feeling for it. The monster is lurking somewhere. It isn't dead." "You've been with it too long. You've been with it ever since we landed on that damned planet. Now it's hard for you to realize that it's over. Look at it logically. The soldiers went over that section of town with a tea strainer. They didn't miss a thing. You've done a good job, Burke. I'll sec that you get credit for it." "Damn it, I don't want credit. I want that thing dead. I want to see it for myself and know it's dead. I don't want to dream about it any more. If the troops got it, why didn't they report that they had?" "How long do you think it would Ia.st in the inferno of a flame thrower? I saw them working as I came across town. Whoosh! Whoosh! Firing at shadows. And that's how it would vanish. Just like a shadow. No one would know. It's incinerated now; there's nothing left." "Yes, and maybe it's hiding somewhere. Some cranny that the soldiers missed. They aren't perfect. A crack in the pavement. A water pipe. A thousand places they wouldn't think of." "And starved to death. It wasn't meant to live independently. It was a parasite, which means that it couldn't exist for very long without a host." "Not necessarily. Some parasites have a free-living stage; others have one or more intermediate hosts. But analogies are useless and deceptive. This isn't one of our parasites. It's extraterrestrial, and it may not follow terrestrial patterns. Even granting that it would die within a few hours of free-living, that leaves one terrible possibility." "What's that?" "Maybe it found a host." "An animal, you mean? A dog or a cat? Or a bird?" "Or a man." "But you ordered all the looters shot." "I know, I know. But if only one escaped, through somebody's carelessness or sombody's misplaced softness... darkness any longer. But I hesitate, and I catch one last thought. "There's only one thing to do. Nobody leaves the city until wc'vc checked on them. All animals are to be incinerated. We'll have to have the biggest manhunt and extermination this country has ever seen... I hurry away. I don't much care which way I go, and I walk purposelessly along the dark streets, spotted occasionally with overhanging lights. I can't leave the city. Not now. anyway. I will have to wait until their measures fail. They must fail, now, and their only chance is for me to make a slip. If I can act like all the rest of the hosts, I will be safe and they will finally give up. Meanwhile the pressure to divide, submerged for the moment, will grow stronger and stronger inside me, inside this alien body. I will have to keep it for awhile yet, and I hate every moment of it. It is a leaden weight I am forced to push along. It is stubborn and Hcshy and stupid. My feet turn at a lighted doorway, and I push myself inside a room before I can stop. I stand in the doorway, blinking, wondering why I have come in, and it is a strange thing to be wondering. "George!" someone says. It is a woman, a female. She throws a soft arm around my neck and drags me farther into the room. The lights fight unsuccessfully through a smoky haze. There are booths along the sides, and chairs and tables in the center, and a bar across the other end of the room. "Where you been?" the woman asks. I search through Smith's memory for a face and a name, and I find them. Dolores. "I been watching the soldiers, Dolores," I say. It is important that I do not arouse suspicions. In the next few days questions will be asked. I would like to leave this place, but I do not dare. There was something about Dolores in the memories I could not force myself to search. I must wait a little until my leaving will go unnoticed. "What they lookin' for, hey, George?" "How do I know? I'm a mind reader or something?" "I bet it's a bomb. Somebody planted a bomb, and they're lookin' for it. That's it, I bet." "Maybe. They were shooting people." "No kiddin'! Here, have a drink." A glass is thrust into my hand. A head is leaned against my chest; tangled hair brushes irritatingly against my face. "Phew! You already had a few." "So what?" She leads me to a booth and forces me down into it and slides in beside me, her thigh hot against mine. "You ain't drinkin' George," she complains loudly. She leans toward me. "WTiat you get?" she whispers. I reach into her mind, reluctantly, shuddering at the maelstrom of twisted thoughts and fears and hopes and passions. She and Smith had been intimate. Just tonight she persuaded Smith to sneak into the closed area to pick up whatever he could find. "Nothin'," I say. "Nothin'!" She says it loudly, angrily. Quickly, she begins to whisper again. "What you mean by that? Why didn't you get anything? What are you trying to do, hold out on me?" "Oh, shut up!" "Maybe you think you can push me around," she says, her voice rising. "Maybe you think you can cheat me and get away with it. Think again. Remember, I can tell them you was in there. They wouldn't like that, I bet. I bet I could get you in a lot of trouble." "For God's sake, shut up!" I whisper violently. "You'll get us both in trouble. Don't you understand? I couldn't get in. They were shooting people, anybody they saw, and then they were burning them. Maybe you'd rather I was laying in there, dead and fried." She sags against the hack of the booth; her body is a mass of fat curves with creases between them. "Oh, well, it was a chance. What we couldn't have done with a few thousand, eh, Georgic?" Her voice is wistful. "You could have skipped out on your wife and brats, and I could have skipped with you, and we could've ditched this town and had a gay old time. Oh, hell! Drink up, Georgic. Tomorrow we die." I raise the glass and take a swallow and almost gag. I feel it bum down my throat and lay burning in the pit of my stomach. The rising fumes make my head swim. Her leg presses more firmly against mine as she leans over against me and puts her arms around me and lays her head on my shoulder. "We still got our health, eh, Georgie?" she says. "We still got each other." "Yeah," I say. "Come on up to my room," she whispers. "We'll show the world what we care." I catch a glimpse of her mind. It is wide open, and I am sickened. I try not to show it. I try to act reluctant. "Can't," I say, and the words are difficult to get out as if the lips are trying to form another word. "Late now. I got to work tomorrow. And Agnes is gonna raise hell as it is.' She sits up sullenly. "Funny you never thought of any of that before." The thing I want most in the world is to stop touching her. "I had a bad time tonight," I say. "A coupla times they almost caught me." "Poor Georgie #" she says quickly, sympathetically. Her hand reaches out to stroke my face. "I didn't know it was gonna be that bad." I try to stand up. The room wobbles. "I got to get out of here," I say. "I don't feel good." "Sure, George. Finish your drink." I hesitate, and the glass is halfway to my lips before I know it, and I let it come the rest of the way and drink it down. She slips out of !the booth, and I slip out, and she stands next to me, hanging on my shoulder. "Tomorrow night?" she whispers. The body feels sick, and I feel sick inside the body. But its worse than that. I'm afraid. "Yeah," I get out through stiff lips, and I find my mouth brushing against hers, and I pull myself away. I thread my way between the tables, unsteadily, and I get out into the night, and I'm breathing deeply. The next thing I know I'm climbing steep steps in a dark corridor, and I don't know how I got there. I'm not climbing alone. Fear is climbing with me. again, and the darkness is thick with stale odors of cooked food. I try to figure out what I'm doing here and how I got here, but I feel vague and feeble, and the body, staggering a little, keeps climbing purposefully. Except that it cant have a purpose; I am its purpose. I can stop, if I want, but I let the body go on to its unknown destination. I stop in front of a dark door. My hand reaches out. It has a key in it. The key fits into the keyhole and rattles and turns. The other hand eases the door open. I slip through into the room beyond and close the door gently behind me. I walk through the room, maneuvering around unseen objects unerringly, although my feet are heavy and clumsy, and I find my hand on the knob of another door. I turn it gently. It begins to open. It creaks. I hesitate. "George?" It is a low, harsh voice, disembodied in the darkness. "Yeah." "So you finally came home." There is no welcome here. The voice is bitter and spiteful. I walk into the room and ease myself into a chair I don't know is there, and I reach out wearily toward the voice in the darkness. There is a bed there, and a woman is on the bed, and the woman is Smith's lawful mate. While I am Smith, she is my lawful mate. I touch her mind and recoil. Hate! Violent and vicious. Hate doubled because it was once something else. Hate redoubled because it is impotent. My hands reach down to untie my shoes. But inside the body, I am searching frantically for ail excuse to get away. And I can't think of any. "You run out of money or did Dolores get tired of you?" "Nuts!" I say. "You have something to eat?" "Yeah." "We had mush." "Yeah?" "That's the third time this week." "So what?" "I'd think you'd want your kids to have a decent meal once in a while." "I give you money," I say loudly. "It ain't my fault you throw it away on candy and magazines and movies." "What else I got?" she says. "Fat lot of money you give me." A distant voice says, "Mama!" "You woke up the kids again," she says wearily. I hear the bedsprings creak. A moment later an overhead light comes on. I blink. She is in a thin, ragged nightgown. Her face is haggard and old, but the body under the gown is still young. She walks by me. and I find my hand reaching out toward her. She twists away from it. She looks at me with hard, hating eyes, and her mouth curls with revulsion. She walks through the door and into the darkness beyond. The bedroom is dirty and dis# beveled. The light glares down from a naked bulb hanging on a cord. It swings back and forth. Shadows sway around the room. I reach out toward the other minds. They arc young. They are ovcrwisc. "He's home." "I heard him. He's drunk again." "Why does he have to come home? Why can't he stay away forever." "Mama says we wouldn't have nothing to cat." "I don't care. I don't care if we cat mush all the time. It's better when lie's gone." "Sh-h-h. Mama's coming." "Go hack to sleep, boys. Everything's all right." "He's home, ain't he, Mama?" "Yes. Go hack to sleep." "Why can't he stay away?" "Don't sav things like that. He's your father." "He ain't hurt you, has he. Mama?" "No. Of course not." "If he hurts you tonight. I'll kill him. I'll kill him." "Me, too." Hate. Pouring out at me. Surrounding me. Pressing down... "You mustn't say things like that. He's your father.' "He's not! He's not!" "Be quiet now. Go back to sleep." She returns. I hear her footsteps echoing through the dark, the sticky, odorous dark, and I look around the room, and I wonder why I am here, so far from the clean meadows and the calm, gentle hosts of my home world. And I wonder how soon I can get away. I wonder if I must spend a night here, or more, sleeping in that bed beside the body of the woman, sensing her movements, listening to her thoughts, torn with repugnance. She is an enemy... I have lived with danger for a long time. Ever since the ship descended upon our world, danger has walked beside inc. It didn't matter so much there, because we were many, but now I am one and alone, and I am afraid. These men are strange animals, and I, who have strange powers they never suspected until recently -- I am afraid of them. I am in the body of a man named Smith, and I hate it. Smith! Smith ! Where are you, Smith ! into bed beside the woman. I lie on one side of the bed, and she lies on the other, and we listen to each other breathing. I feel her hate. I try to plan how I will get out of the city and how I will leave this alien body and seek the peace I need before I can divide. I think how I will find some of the animals that Smith heard of, and I will use them as hosts until I am many again, and we will take over this world. Once there are many of us, it will be simple. It will be painful work, but simple. But it is useless. All I can think about is the woman lying there on the other side of this uncomfortable bed, and how I am surrounded by strange flesh and the flesh is surrounded by hate. I am shocked to find myself in the middle of the bed. The discovery paralyzes me for a moment, and then I try to draw back. But there arc odd, undefinable things working inside me. Uncontrolled sensations quiver along the nerves inside the body, quiver along the feelers that lie microscopically inside the nerves. Glands arc discharging their secretions into the body. The process seems automatic; I can't stop them. The body, too, must have automatic responses. It reaches toward the woman. "George!" she says in a low, vicious voice. "Get away from me." I put my hand on her. She writhes away from it, her flesh shrinking. I get closer. She struggles; she hits at me with her fists. I pin her hands behind her with one of mine. I lower my head over hers, kissing her lips that twist like snakes under mine. "George! Don't!" she snaps, when I raise my head for a moment. "The children arc listening." "So what?" The body goes on doing things that I can't control. I can't control anything now. Flesh speaks to flesh, and the emotions working inside me arc wild and violent. I try to shut myself away from them. I try to cower back, to disengage myself, but it is no use. "George," she says. I hear the voice distantly. "George! You filthy beast! Don't cdtne crawling to me after you've been with that woman!" But her voice is softening, and her body is softening, too. As I release her hands, they do not claw at me. They try to push me away, but they arc weak and ineffectual. Horror is inside the body with me, and I cannot help what the body is doing. Sweat rolls off our bodies. "You beast," she says again. "You beast." But her voice is different now. She isn't pushing me away any more. And the worst part is that beneath that surface response is the hate, still there, as violent and unappeasable as ever. Later I find myself lying on the other side of the bed again. My senses arc dulled with horror, and the body is dull, too. It is drifting into sleep. "You devil," the woman says in a wild, torn voice. "I hate you." And the body sleeps, soddenly. But I do not sleep. I cannot sleep, like the body, and forget. I must lie awake and remember. And one thought, violent and powerful, drives all the others before it. Escape! Get away, now! Get free from the body before it wakes again and does other terrible, uncontrollable things. There is danger! Ignore it! Pull free now, before it J s too late. I know that I can't stand it any longer. I must be free again. Perhaps this time I can find an animal, some pet, or better, a small animal like a rat. It will have holes and secret ways which the Enemy can't find. Unlike us, he has been unable to exterminate his pests. He wall not be able to do it now. The danger is great, but the danger of staying is greater. I try to begin the slow process of extricating myself from this fleshy trap. But the long, slender feelers will not slip from the nerves and the vessels. They arc entangled, glued fast. Is that it? Or am I so weak that I can't even control my own extensions any longer. The body holds me, clinging to every part of me. It won't let me go. I cannot move. I pull with all my strength. I send out imperious commands along the tenuous feelers. Nothing. Nothing happens. There is only one chancr left. T hesitate before taking it, but at last I send out the impulses of destruction and dissolution. I don't know what it will do to me, caught as I am inside this hody, but I don't care any more. And it docs nothing. Trapped! T relax, hopelessness and dismay washing over me like the ancient sea from which we came. I am caught, irretrievably, finally. I have no control over the body at all; I no longer have any control over my own being. Somehow, inexplicably, the powerful, instintive reactions of this monstrous body have welded me to it. We are bound together, indissolubly, until death. A lifetime of terror and horror stretches before me. I am a consciousness imprisoned in a mass of flesh. Speechless, cut of! from the world, I will live only to suffer. Smith! Smith! Where are you? But there is no answer. Smith is gone. It isn't Smith who has me, who will not let inc go; it is this body. A lifetime! There is one chance, one chance for freedom. There is one place I can turn for help. The Enemy can free me, and it no longer matters if the freedom is death. I reach out once more, desperately. Search? Search! Find him  "Your plan is fantastic. T flatly refuse to let this city be shut down any longer." "Gardner's right. Burke. You can take over a city for a few hours, but when you start talking about days it's impossible. And you can't expect any results." "Okay, Ellis. The plan was foolish. I give up." "Wait a minute. I'm all out of breath. I was all prepared to argue with you, and now you give up. You must have thought of something." "I just started thinking of the thing as a parasite. Parasites are usually particular about their hosts. They're adapted to one species or a few rlosely allied species, and they can't change quickly. If the thing escaped, I imagine it found its host body uncongenial." "Exactly, Burke. And I was going to make another point. In the struggle for existence, the parasite has chosen a negative reaction. It has followed the line of least resistance, giving up freedom and independence for protection and a more constant and usually richer supply of food. It's a retreat from struggle. Basically, it can't compete with positive reactions." "Nevertheless, we must send out a ship immediately to wipe that world clean. We can't give them a chance to adapt." "Just he fore I left the ship, I received new orders from Secspace." "I suppose the thing is dead..." I slip away, my last hope gone. They will not search me out. The monsters ! The monsters! The thing isn't dead, but it would like to be. It must live on until the host dies... Dies! I remember. With a horrible, sickened feeling, I remember. The rejuvenating network I have supplied this body has made it almost immortal. My tormented imprisonment isn't just for a lifetime. It is forever. The sodden body sleeps, this monster named Smith, while my thoughts race madly. The body shivers, very gently. Deep inside it, a mute voice is screaming. Man is a rope connecting animal and Superman, a rope over a precipice... What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal. -- Nietzche Will the lime machine ever become a reality? Will we ever be able to go back in history and visit the scenes and heroes we ve read about? Will we ever be able to foresee events of the future? Man has broken two barriers -- space and sound -- and now he is working on another... An IF Fact Article By Alson J. Smith man breach space and sound, ventor of the steam locomotive. Totwo of the barriers that stood beday not only sciencefiction writers tween him and a more complete but sober scientists in a score of knowledge of the universe. The airuniversity research centers are plane has reduced the vast disquietly experimenting with the tanccs of land and sea to practical hitherto inviolate time-barrier -- and nothingness, and the same marvelare breaching it every day. ous instrument has propelled huMan has always been intrigued man beings through the air at suby the problem of time. "What is pcrsonic speeds. A hundred years time?" cried St. Augustine. "If noago only hair-shirted preachers, body asks me, I know. But if I ain psychotic cultists, and opium-eating asked, I cannot say.' Thousands science-fiction writers were anticisince then have toyed with the themselves through the stratosphere have been written about man's preat speeds faster than the sound of occupation with the nature of a cannon-shot. time. It governs our lives; we The second half of the century chronicle its passing with calendars, may well give man victory over the clocks, sand and sun-dial, and most enigmatic barrier of all -- dread the slow or quick approach time. Inconceivable? No more so of the final tick that frees us from than travel at supersonic speeds its domination. Yet -- what is it? We would have seemed to the foot soldon't really know. Mathematically, dier in Wellington's army, or the it is a convenient abstraction, a humanly created device to regulate men and events and bring some sort of order into human relationships. And yet, as Immanuel Kant once observed. vc do not know that the "order" which time describes is the true order of the universe. Maurice Maeterlinck had an interesting theory. He comments on the fact that the star Mira, in the constellation of Balaena the Whale, is seventytwo light years away from our earth. Suppose there is on Mira a civilization more advanced than ours, and an astronomer with a telescope powerful enough to distinguish clearly what is going on on Earth. What the Mira astronomer would see would not be Paris, New York, or New Haven as they arc now, but as they were seventytwo years ago -- horse cars in the street, bustles on the ladies and Amos Alonzo Stagg playing left end for Yale. There would be no trace of two world wars, for they would not yet have happened as far as the astronomer on Mira was concerned ; the present, for him, is that which he secs. For him the buried life of the past is the present. Maeterlinck concludes: "In this plurality of times, which are merely pure conventions, are not the events of the future already present somewhere, just as the events of the past arc still present? They cannot be stinted for room, since the present is eternal, which means that it is infinite in space as well as time." Another interesting theory is that held by Dr. C. D. Broad, the English scientist who is at present working at the University of Michigan. Professor Broad believes that there may be a second dimension of time. which normally we know nothing about, lying at right angles to our familiar dimension. If there is this second dimension, then events which are separated by a tiinc-gap in one dimension may be joined without any gap in the other, just as two points on the earth's surface which differ in longitude may be identical in latitude. Our familiar time might be represented by a line going from west to east, and the second or unknown dimension by a line going from south to north. For instance: Mother Shipton, who lived in the sixteenth century, foretold the invention of the automobile. Dr. Broad's theory would explain this by saying that although in our familiar dimension the invention of the automobile occurred more than two centuries after Mother Shipton's prediction, yet, in the second dimension of time, it occurred just before the prediction. In other words, she was remembering, not predicting. One of the most careful theoreticians about time was the late John VV. Dunne, a highly-respected British aeronautical engineer whose theories have been incorporated in three books -- Experiment With Time, The Serial Universe and The New Immortality. Dunne's interest in the time problem began with a series of odd premonitory dreams, in which he dreamed of events exactly as they would happen the day after he dreamed them. Dunne decided that thev were m ordinary dreams, but were displaced in time. Instead of coming after the event they were coming before it. They were normal enough, but he was having them on the wrong nights. He finally decided that all dreams were made up of images of the past, present and future blended together in equal proportions, and that the universe is really stretched out in time. And the conventional view in which the future is cut off from the present and past is due to a purely mentally-imposed barrier which exists only in the conscious mind. In dreams we continually cross and recross that nonexistent equator, which we arbitrarily set across the whole stream of time when we're awake. Absolute for the ancients; they were very sure that the "impenetrable" veil could be pierced, even by the most ordinary of their number. The Pythia at Delphi was always a woman and generally one of the ignorant rural population. Yet, after fasting and inhaling the sacred vapors in the temple, she wns believed to be capable of delivering messages from the gods and predicting future events. With the coming of modem science in the #th and #th centuries, however, time was arbitrarily ruled an Absolute. From then on a philosopher like Kant, a mystic like Swedenborg, a psychologist like McDougall, or even a heretical scientist like occasional note of dissent, hut, generally speaking, time-tethered science was unchallenged in its bestof-allpossible, three-dimensional worlds. In this kind of a climate, prophecy was limited to the logical inference of the weather forecaster and the investment advisor; only the racing fan with his "hunch" could claim a relationship with the Pythia and Pilate's wife. Dr. Albert Einstein dropped a bombshell into this smug three-dimensional world when he postulated his space-time continuum, with time as a fourth dimension. Space and time, he held, were but opposite sides of a coin. Everybody had a lot of fun with long-haired old Dr. Einstein and his Theory of Relativity. Limericks like this one were greatly appreciated: There was a young girl named Miss Bright, Who could travel much faster than light. She departed one day In an Einstcinian way. And came back on the previous night. But the scientists did not laugh. They accepted the space-time continuum. And they saw its implication -- that an amazing new frontier for scientific experiment had been opened. As men had pioneered in space, so now, theoretically, they might pioneer in time. The branch of science which is concerning itself with the breaching of the time barrier is that sub-division of psychology known as parapsychology -- that is, a psychology that deals with phenomena that are beyond normality. At Duke University Dr. J. C. Rhine and bis colleagues in the Laboratory of Parapsychology are experimenting daily with the power of the mind to remember the past and predict the future. Similar experimentation is carried on at the City College of New York and at the universities of Utrecht, Bonn, Groningen, and London. The first experiments in precognition (the ability of the mind to break the tiine-barrier and predict or "see" future events) and retrocognition (the ability to "see" events of the distant past) were carried out at Duke University with a (Extra-Sensory Perception) cards. The subject of the experiment tried to predict the order of the deck as it would be after it was shuffled. The results obtained showed mathematical odds of # to I against chance being responsible for the correct predictions made by the subjects. Other tests with cards, marbles, dice and matching pictures all bore out the original results. The idea that there is a power of the mind which can prevision, which is not limited by time, was healthily substantiated. These simple experiments are gradually becoming more complex, but the results continue to indicate that the actual breaching of the time barrier by some function of the human mind is not at all impossible. Based as they are on the science of mathematics, the tests make dull reading. But the conclusion is inescapable and startling -- time is not an Absolute ; it is a barrier that can be breached, and science has already started down the long road toward that end. What does it mean? Will H. G. Well's time-machine become a reality? Will the vacationer of the #st century have his choice of two w eeks in modem Paris or two weeks in the Paris of Marie Antoinette? Will the student of history not only read about the Battle of Hastings but, if he is so inclined, buy a ticket to it and go back in time to see it? Will man know the future -- so that there will be no hidden knowledge, no war, no disaster, no surprise? The men who are pioneering on this eerie time-frontier are dedicated, able scientists. And in drawing on their experiments for material, the science-fiction writer is as near to fact as Tennyson was with his "airy navies" or Jules Verne with his submarine. The day is not too far off w'hcn we'll be in radio contact with Jupiter and Saturn, when weather will be controlled by radio, and when each person will have a portable sending and receiving set that will enable him to communicate with anyone, anywhere in the world. -- David Sarnoff When Thomas Edison was once asked how many separate investigations he had under way in West Orange, he answered, "I have enough ideas to keep the laboratories busy for years and 'break' the Bank of England." Mjly is Yljm's love life. She is her sisters, her mothers, hcrselves and her ancestors. But poor old Yljm can never be a mother or a sister -- just himself ! Coueome faeantd Illustrated by Kelly Freas  that my story began a long time ago, but I do not intend to be subtle. I am not clever and my lying is unpolished, almost amateurish. So I certainly could not be subtle, which requires both cleverness and an abilitv to tell the truth and a lie in the same breath. Let us turn back the clock a few ages. I was lying in the sun thinking of love. I understand that you human beings have an aversion to biological discussion, so I will not go into detail. But I must remind you that my love-life is quite different from yours, for I am from another planet. At the time under discussion, I was most deeply in love. My heart's desire had no shape, the lovely creature. She had no intelligence, the divine soul. But she was the greatest bit of protoplasm in any galaxy you could name. By our standards, I probably might be called handsome. I was young and healthy. I had all of my genes and chromosomes. My color was the dirty green that is associated with beauty. The sun warmed my body and the tidal undulation of my planet's surface rocked me gently. And then she came into my life. She floated gently in the breeze, her dainty figure held aloft by a mere hint of levitation. Sparks of static electricity shot from her tender cilia so brightly that I was forced to exude a layer of protective fibre to protect my visory buds. She sucked a deep breath of cyanic gas into her pulmonary pouch and spoke to me sweetly with a voice like distant thunder. "My dear Yljm, the world is coming to an end." I could not believe her, for she had no intelligence. She only loved to talk. "Perhaps," I said, "but not today." "Very soon, then," said she. Her name was Mjly. I watched her with patronizing amusement. The static electricity showed that she was nervous and upset, but people often get nervous and upset over trivial matters. "Now how," I reasoned, "could our world come to an end? The other planet has gone on for thousands of years without colliding with us. We circle it, in fact." "No," Mjly said, "that is not our doom. Actually our world will not cease to exist. Life will end here, that is all." "Ah," I said. "Our atmosphere is escaping into space." I sucked air, viciously. True, the air was thin. True, the atmosphere was escaping. But there would be breathable amounts for many thousands of centuries yet to come. "Not the air. The food is all gone. Things we cal have ceased to exist." I levitated myself and looked out over the throbbing land. A few years ago, this land had been covered with vegetation. I had come to take vegetation so much for granted that I'd ceased to notice it. Now it was gone. There were no round fruits growing from tender grasses, no tubers dangling from the fungus trees, no legume vines sprawling over the rocks. Everywhere lay desert, barren dunes shaking their crests with tidal motion. I lowered myself to the ground and dug my big fibrousities into the sod. No green leaves grew there beneath the surface. The soil was dead. "This will seriously interfere with our future, Mjly," I said. "We might eat each other," she replied, "but then there would be no one left." "No one? There are many others here." "The others arc dying," said Mjly, blinking her otic nerves eerily. "We soon will be the only ones left. It was indeed a senseless thing to do, to die just because there was no means of going on living. But I must admit that I was tempted for a moment. But I hung onto myself, for there was Mjly, and as long as she lived, there was a reason for me to live too. "It's not a cheerful prospect," I said, "but I suppose death by starvation is the best way out. We will face death as we have lived, cheerfully and fortuitously." "And why should wc die, when there is another world so close?" she asked. "Are you suggesting interplanetary flight, my dear?" I was amused again, even though there was little enough left to be amused at. She crinkled her sense of smell in reply, and I realized I was not being amused at the right time. Anchoring herself by magnetic processes, she began to weave the atmosphere delicately with her taste-bud tendrils. Quickly she hollowed the air molecules into a reflective mirror, and brought it to focus on our neighboring world. I levitated myself into a position so that I could look into the mirror. The near planet was quite satisfactory. It was the one you know as the earth. It was young. It was green. Huge fem-like plants grew abundantly on its surface. It was full of food. And near. "The trip could be made by levitation," Mjly said. I hung back. "Animals might live there. We'd be devoured." "I am not afraid," she said. "Wc might not get hungry for a time. Let us linger here awhile. Later when we get desperate, there will be time enough for interplanetary flight." I hated the thought of stuffing myself full of air enough to last for the long trip. Mjly lowered her visory buds. "I am going to become a mother," she said. "Go then, and become a mother. I'll stay here till I get hungry and then join you." Mjly unflexed her sense of touch and I felt sorry for her. "If I could be sure," I said, "that no wild animals live on the earth, I'd go sooner." She snapped her sense of balance in happiness. "I will go first," said she. "If everything is pleasant and safe, I will return and let you know." I nodded my otic nerves and of! she went. As you human beings are doubtless aware, space levitation is quite complicated, but not beyond accomplishment. Once you are able to reach the speed of escape the rest is easy. But Mjly was young and strong and soon she had disappeared from sight traveling at a tremendous velocity. I followed her as long as I could with the telescope and then I lowered myself to the tidal crest of a nearby sand dune and lost myself in metaphysical thoughts. Almost half a year later I realized that Mjly had been gone longer than I expected. Either she had been eaten by wild animals on the earth, or she had forgotten me. I was beginning to get lonesome and in a few more months I would get hungry. At the thought of enduring two such excruciating pains at a single time, I decided to risk my life. I would travel through space to the earth and try to find my beloved. As you may have guessed, the planet on which we had been living is the one you now know as the Moon, and the distance to the earth is comparatively small. The sanddunes now have hardened and the tidal sway of its surface can be felt only slightly. The moon no longer turns on its axis and it has no sweetly scented cyanide in its atmosphere. It has no atmosphere of any sort. But it stands now as it did when I left it, glorious in death. Since I departed, no living thing has trod its soil. My scientific sense instinctively came to the rescue as I approached the earth. I felt a strong gravity wrenching at my vitals and so instead of trying reverse levitation, I spread my processes so that the atmosphere caught in the folds of my skin and I came floating gently down to the ground without harm. The earth was much as it had appeared through the molecule telescope. It was covered with green vegetation, good, rich, nourishing stuff. And there was enough to feed There were no animals of any sort. Again I went to my scientific sense for the answer. I realized that while vegetable life was far advanced, animal life had yet to appear. Mjly was the first of this type of life ever to set foot on terrestrial soil. But where was she? On the moon, I could often locate her a thousand miles away by a simple radio call. Although the earth was much larger than the moon, I did not doubt that she was within a thousand miles. So I generated power and issued a call. I waited for the response. It came feebly to my antenna. Using my sense of direction, I pushed through the vegetation in search of her. I did not levitate, because the feebleness of her call indicated she might be hurt and on the ground. Besides, levitation is much more difficult oil the earth than on the moon. The reply came stronger to my next call and I sensed through seven of my senses that she was near. She was on the ground, probably injured, which explained why she had not returned as she had promised. I came to a patch of wilderness, a great marshy plain. In the middle of this swamp was a crater, like those caused by meteors, a deep, ugly scar in the mud. I shuddered at the thought that my darling Mjly might have landed there. Her weaker scientific sense might not have given her the cue to use her skin as a parachute and she might have made the fatal mistake of trying to reversc-levitate. "Mjly!" I called, speaking aloud now. "Mjly! Where are you?" "Yljm! I am here!" "Yes, the voice came from the crater. Gliding to its rim, I looked down. A pool of water lay on the bottom. A greenish scum covered the surface. The scum moved with "Yes, Yljm," came Mjly's voice. "It is I. But I am no longer one being." And her voice sounded like (Continued on page # J By E. G. von Wald Illustrated by Paul Orban Tensor's melancholia threatened to disturb the entire citizenry, and that was most uncivil! So -- if these peculiar aliens caused him this distress, by provoking his intellectual curiosity, the remedy was for him to investigate them to his complete satisfaction... Thus, in this manner, did Tensor get well -- and did he learn a bit too... fine mist sifting down from a hazy, violet sky. "I told you I was having these spells." "But Great Oxy," the administrator sputtered, "can't you control yourself?" "I can't help it, Ruut," Tensor replied. "I just feel sort of funny and -- and -- " Ruut's hyperimage was chewing on its illusory lip. "Well, you've got to stop it. Do you understand? There'll be a lot of lichens and things growing all over the Prime's beautiful landscapes if this keeps up." The administrator's concern amused Tensor and, as his mood lightened, the drizzle abated and the sky became clear again. "I'm sorry," he apologized sincerely. "But I just seem to be having trouble lately. Ever since the aliens came." "Oh, come now, son," Ruut chortled with assumed heartiness. "That's elementary somatics. Just get a grip on yourself." "Yes sir." "Perhaps you've been working, or exerting yourself in some other foolish way. Maybe you're tired and should take something." The long, scrawny citizen gazed disconsolately at the bcautitful violet sky, his face relaxed and soleful. He sighed and murmured, "Frankly, Ruut, I just don't seem to give a damn anymore." On the other side of the planet, Ruut gulped convulsively. His eyes bulged out with thoroughly uncivilized amazement. "Get out of consciousness immediately," he ordered hoarsely. "Take a nego shot, if necessary. Take one anyway. We can't take chances." The administrator's hyperimage, with calculated angry expression, glared sternly into Tensor's mind. "Did you understand me?" "Yes sir," Tensor murmured. A vague unpleasantness began stirring in his stomach as he contemplated Ruut's thought. The administrator was absolutely right. Civilization simply could not tolerate an unhappy, uncooperative citizen. The general satisfaction of all was so clearly the responsibility of each individual, and one careless man could ruin it for everybody. Very much as he had been doing. Obediently he nodded. Concealing his embarrassment at the artificiality of the act, he permitted the hyperimage to watch while he administered the chemical. "Good." Ruut became calm at once, now that he was certain he could command the situation. "I'll have the physician examine you before that wears ofT." He hesitated and said even more mildly, "I hope this is just a passing thing, Tensor. You know I'll do everything I can for you, even teleporting to your focus. But you're a weather sensitive, and that's a pretty common classification. And you know the Council." Tensor indicated lazy assent. As the drug took hold, he slipped soothingly into unconsciousness, and the hyperimage flickered and vanished with his powers. His last emotion was one of a vague relief that he would not have to look at the low caste face of an administrator for a while. and uninterestedly contemplating the deep violet far above. A few minutes before, he had been stirred to an elusive and incomprehensible wistfulness which had been, in some way, connected with the aliens. While waiting for the physician, he pondered the brief glimpse he had got of them before the Council clamped down its screen and privacy orders. Now, under the emotionless pseudoconsciousncss of the nego, it seemed strange that he could have been interested in those futile and primitive beings. Practically nothing was known about them, because they could not communicate. Tensor studied the question briefly. There was no answer available in the paucity of information, so he dismissed it without further interest. Insufficient data. Therefore, insoluble problem. Therefore, forget about it. He continued to stare at the sky, unconsciously and vacantly waiting. He felt the itch. It was a slight stimulation of his medulary region, indicating somebody's desire to communicate with him. That, however, was impossible at the moment. The only faculties of significance remaining in his neutral somatic state were those which were absolutely necessary for civilized life -- levitation to avoid being disturbed by gravity, the focus for personal privacy, the construction of food. Communication was not one of those, so the itch would just have to remain. Tensor contemplated an eternity with the medulary itch without the slightest concern. Abruptly the itch stopped and Curl was there, looking exhausted, as was the polite fashion, since teleporting oneself was commonly regarded as tiring. "You've taken nego," the physician murmured aloud, half accusingly. "Yes sir," Tensor replied, using similar sound patterns. "Ruut ordered me to." "What in Oxy for?" "He did not like mv attitude." # The physician considered the information, and while he did so, Ruut popped into existence beside him, a most uncivilized look of worry on his face. "How is he. Curl? What have you found out?" "No need for excitement, my dear administrator," the physician replied evenly, politely avoiding comment on Ruut's crude, low caste self control. "I just got here. Thanks to your order to the young man to fill himself up with nego. he was unable to let me project a hypcrimngc." "But the situation was dangerous. Did you examine him? Did he tell you what he said to me?" Curl glanced at him, and then quickly sent probing thoughts at Tensor's mind and body. After a moment, he gave it up, shaking his head. "The nego won't let him communicate at all. I'll have to order him to administer an anitdote to himself." "No!" Ruut almost shouted. "It's dangerous." He rapidly gave an oral and somewhat horrified account of his earlier communication with Tensor. "All right," the physician grudgingly admitted. "I'll try to do it superficially. But it's difficult. It's awfully hard to know what's going on in his body from just looking at it and listening to him talk." He turned to Tensor. "How long have you hern having these -- er, spurious moods?" "About six months." "Are you having anv other troubles?" "No sir. It's just the simple things, like the weather, that seem to be affected." "I see. Melancholia." Curl frowned thoughtfully. "These And they don't go away entirely when you shift your endocrine balance?" "I'm not so sure about that endocrine shift, sir," Tensor stated emotionlcsly. "You mean -- " Curl stopped incredulously. He shook his head as he comprehended. "Great Iso Oxys!" "What is it?" Ruut asked in a hushed voice. "This is deeper than I thought, Ruut. You did very well to put him under nego. The man can't control his endocrine system properly." "Well do something," Ruut demanded. "Don't just float there." "All I can do," Curl said, raising his voice exactly one decibel to show his irritation, "is give advice. Obviously, in his condition, the man can't follow it." Ruut gaed unhappily at his friend. He was in authority over Tensor, and therefore far inferior in native gifts. Now it seemed that Tensor was regressing in some obscure way to his own level, a tragic and uncivilized situation. "This has happened before," Curl admitted. "But I can't quite remember when." He sighed resignedly. "I guess 'I'll have to teleport again. Somebody probably remembers." He disappeared for a few minutes and returned again, face beaming despite the fatigue. "Oh yes," he said cheerfully. "Now I know." Tensor stared at him with uninterested eyes. "The man is dying," Curl explained with satisfaction. "Dying?" Ruut murmured incredulously. "But that's impossible unless the Council orders him to destroy himself. Why -- why that would make him just like an animal." "That's what it is," Curl insisted. Ordinarily, Tensor would have been somewhat interested to know about this strange process that was taking place within his body, but the nego kept his mind dull and unconcerned. He did not even question for reasons. Ruut, however, did, and the physician happily explained. "You just have never been concerned with these rare symptoms, my dear administrator. You see, actually we are animals in a sense. We don't die like them, but if we are not in a focus we could be killed through some accidental injury. The principal difference between us and the small animals that occasionally cause Prime trouble with his landscaping is control. They have no control over their endocrine systems. We have." "Of course," Ruut said. "I know that." "Ah, but perhaps you don't know that our race at one time had no more control over our endocrine systems than those little animals. "There are a lot of ways to account for the change, and it makes very fascinating discussion because it's absolutely unimportant. However, under such conditions, a human being would automatically reach a certain stable level of development. But then, after an incredibly short time, the essential chaos within its body due to lack of endocrine control causes it to deteriorate. Eventually it is no longer capable of sustaining life and it dies." The physician moved his hands in an awkward but eloquent gesture. "And that's all there is to it." "Oh," Ruut murmured in an awed tone, not even comprehending the extent of the disease but trying to accept the staggering idea of natural death. "Can't you do anything for him?" Curl turned his attention casually back to the sick man again. "Possibly. Dying, of course, is not a disease in itself, but merely a symptom of one." He shook his head. "I certainly wish I could examine him directly without getting involved in a major social crisis." "Oh, Prime would be furious," Ruut warned. "No doubt. Well -- he said that this started six months ago. Now what could have happened six months ago?" "The aliens," Ruut said flatly. "That's what caused it." "Oh, come now, Ruut," Curl said amusedly. "Don't be superstitious. What connection could these -- these aliens possibly have?" "Well, dial's when the Council clamped down on them. Something funny about the way they did that, too." "Not at all funny," Curl told him in a superior tone of voice. "It is simply that the aliens appeared to be of a higher type of animal class without communication. Surely you wouldn't want to have anything to do with such contradictory beings." "Of course not. But Tensor got sick right after he visited them." "He went to visit them?" Curl was pensive a moment, and his eyes lighted up. "In that case, Ruut. there may be some connection after all." Ruut nodded without speaking. "Tensor," Curl said thoughtfully, "did you actually go to inspect the savages?" "Yes sir." "When?" "Just before the Council stopped "Uh huh. Did you have a reaction?" Tensor considered. He recalled every detail of the fleeting impressions that had been his during the few brief moments of his presence near the peculiar organisms. The impressions were confused and mingled with sensations of teleport fatigue, but there was a definite and strange sentiment involved somewhere. "Yes, sir," he said woodenly. "There seems to have been a reaction." "Ha!" The physician glanced significantly at Ruut. "What kind of a reaction. Tensor? And how strong was it?" "I do not recognize it, sir. But it was stronger than the ordinary ones." Curl floated over close to him. peering intently up into the unconscious man's eves. "Tell ine the characteristics." Tensor thought a moment and replied, "Chaotic in one sense. Specific in another." "Speculative?" Curl's eyes were eager with interest. "Yes sir. I believe that would define it best. It was a sort of wild and ungovernable desire to speculate on the origin of the aliens. A very singular experience," he added. "I knew it!" Curl almost shouted. Then he quickly glanced about and composed himself stiffly. That was an embarrassing thing to do. In front of an administrator, too. "Very well." he said. "That confirms my diagnosis. I shall report it to the Council and let them decide what to do." "What is it?" Ruut asked. "A very strange disease. Rare, too. I haven't had a case of it for centuries." He paused and shook his head. "Too bad. I don't recall a single recovery from it once it got a good start." "It is -- contagious?" Ruut asked timidly. "Oh, not for you," Curl smiled. "It's called intellectual curiosity, and it requires somewhat more brain power than you have." "Thank Oxy for that," Ruut breathed fervently. His eyes went back to the recumbent form of the diseased citizen. "Yes. The Council will dearly love this," Curl said with satisfaction. "Most unusual. He'll have to be destroyed, of course." "But can't you do anything for it?" "Not likely. You see, it's the only appetite of which we are capable that can't be controlled by shifting endocrine balance. Ordinarily, our civilized manner of living prevents it from being aroused -- that's the advantage of being civilized. Because, once the appetite shows up, it simply must be satisfied, or it's apt to do all sorts of poisonous things to you, as you can see. The trouble is, satisfying curiosity generally involves at least some work, and what civilized man is going to get himself involved with anything like that?" "Insidious," Ruut whispered. Curl turned away, but then hesitated and glanced back. "Still, since it concerns the aliens -- " He frowned pensively. "There is a scheme we've never tried before that would probably cure him. I remember somebody mentioned it about eight hundred years ago, and we decided to try it out on the next case. Never did, though. Nobody was interested. It's sort of uncivilized, but I'll bring it up and see what the Council thinks." He nodded shortly, and evacuated to his own focus. "Well, my boy," Ruut said to Tensor. "I'm going to mbs you." "There is no need to concern yourself over me, sir," Tensor replied unemotionally. "It does not bother ine in the slightest." Ruut knew that to be the truth. but it made him feel sad to think of such a highly civilized man as Tensor falling to a level that was even below an administrator. Abruptly, he caught himself and readjusted the endocrine balance in his own body to compensate for the character of his thought, and the moody spell passed. He left, and Tensor continued to deep violet of the sky, noting without appreciation the jewcl-like points of light that were the stars. posed twice in his body before Curl returned, his long, unkempt, black beard floating gently around his ears. "Tensor," he said gravely, "the Council has acted. It has been decided not to order you to destroy yourself immediately, because I managed to convince them that it would be interesting to try that old scheme I told you about. I hope you don't mind." Naturally there was no reply from Tensor. In his emotionless state, he did not care one way or the other. He waited. "At any rate," the physician continued, "what they did was order you to satisfy this curiosity that is causing all your trouble. "The reason, of course, isn't that the Council is interested in your cure. But thev do desire some co# herent information about the aliens. And since it is unlikely that anyone will ever volunteer to take the trouble to investigate them on their own initiative, they felt your illness a satisfactory excuse for requiring you to make the investigation." "Yes sir." Curl sighed. It was monotonous, this trying to carry on a conversation with an unconscious man. However, it was his duty as a physician. and he had promised the Council. One thing he was sure of. though, and that was never again to get involved in teleporting himself about the planet like this on any account. He would send an assistant. Provided he could find one. "The Council would like a report when you get back. Do you think you can control yourself if you know that you are going to investigate the aliens whether you like it or not?" "I guess so. sir," Tensor replied without interest. "Splendid. I'll return to my own focus and give you the privacy for administering the antidote." Tensor waited. When the physician was gone, he constructed the chemical in the vein of his left wrist, and in less than a minute he felt the surging pleasure of his reawakened faculties. He glanced doubtfully at the sky, but it remained clear. Curl's hyperimage began forming in his mind. "Everything all right now?" the physician inquired genially. "Perfect," replied Tensor contentedly. "This won't be so bad, even if it is useful work. Maybe I'm just a little peculiar." "Ha. ha." Curl replied noncommittally. "Oh. one thing further. What about the privacy screen set up around the aliens?" "That was dropped months ago," Curl laughed. "Can you imagine the Council sustaining anything like that for long?" "It doesn't require any effort." "Yes, but it looks like it ought to. and you know how that affects a civilized man. You ran go any time you like." Tensor nodded and withdrew. over the delightful grecn-andorangc-streaked sands of the central landscape. This was one of Prime's favorites, and the network of drainage channels was the most effective on the planet. Tensor approved. It really was beautiful. He gazed around, pleasurably appreciating the esthetic beauty of the colorful, arid scene. Then he saw the alirns. That was astonishing, he thought. The aliens were known to have grouped on the other side of the planet, and he had intended to do some sightseeing on the way around. Now two of them were here. Most unpredictable. They were standing near the horizon, apparently examining one of the channels. Tensor moved toward them slowly, sending futile probes for their minds and finding, as before, nothing but chaotic splashes. It was really unfortunate that they could not communicate. He moved higher as he approached. for the better view it afforded. The aliens were animal, all right. A species similar to human beings but grotesquely primitive. He observed that the creatures had noticed him and were running madly across the surface toward a small, shiny structure. The structure interested him. It looked very much as if it had been fabricated. lie wondered how the savages could construct without being able to control, and watched them as they actually entered the thing. And then, incredibly, it rose from the fenous sands and dashed off toward the cast, a faint, disgustingly moist vapor trailing out behind it. Quickly Tensor moved up parallel to it, while he speculated on what it meant. Apparently the savages were in full control of it. For a moment he thought it might be an alien focus, but dismissed the idea. If it were a focus, there would be no purpose in moving it spatially. Feeling more curious, he projected himself inside and was immediately delighted, despite its obvious mechanical character. It was metallic and smooth and there were numerous incomprehensible devices piled up again the walls of the tiny, circular room. Seated at a panel, their backs toward him, the two creatures were busily manipuand one was creating a wierd but soft cacaphony with its mouth. Tensor was amused as well as interested. He listened, and managed to decipher a pattern to the speech, even though only confused scatterings of intelligence came from the chaotic minds. He again observed the astonishing similarity of appearance between the aliens and human beings. From a small orifice in the panel, a reply issued; cold and rasping in tonal quality. "Control to Scout Three. Roger on the presumed alien. Lieutenant. I knew that civilian with you would get you into trouble." "Well, it wasn't exactly the fault of -- " "Enough. Bear away from the base until certain you are not being followed." While one of them played with the moving color spots on the panel, the other twisted a knob, and all segments of the outside became successively visible in a viewer. "Scout Three to Control. Nothing in sight." "Very well. The orders are to stay there until dark, after which you may return." "But that's two hundred hours away," the other savage hissed. "We don't have enough oxygen." "You'll just have to work it out somehow," the panel replied coldly. "We can't endanger the whole military base for one useless civilian biologist." This was a fascinating exchange to Tensor, as he puzzled out the curious relationships and their purposes. He floated near the ceiling, listening, face set in civilized impassivity. One of the creatures grumbled, leaned back and swung around in its chair. It jerked erect when it saw the man at the ceiling. Tensor smiled at the poor, dumb creature and was rewarded by a disgustingly loud noise from its mouth and a mad rush back to the panel. The other had seen him, too, and was staring wide-eyed at him. Tensor moved closer to observe, but the one who had seen him first continued shouting shrill, ear-splitting noises at its companion, who seemed to be trying unsuccessfully to obey. Petulantly, Tensor disintegrated the noisy one and also some ugly cables that led from the panel to the wall. That improved the esthetic situation immeasurably, he felt. There was a quick sucking of breath from the remaining savage as it looked wildly about for a moment, as if searching for its vanished companion, and then stared at the place where the cables had been. "Well --  It made a hopeless gesture with its shoulders and slumped back into its chair. "That does it. No pilot. No radio. Damn. Even the Leader would have trouble with this situation." It looked uneasily at Tensor, and remained perfectly, cautiously still. "What do you call yourselves?" Tensor asked without difficulty, using sound patterns similar to what they had employed. "You speak English!" the creature blurted out in amazement, and Tensor felt rather irritated by its crude facial expression. He made a small adjustment, however, bringing his own somatic state into a closer harmony with that of the creature, and the desired level of contented appreciation rose. "Are -- are you a native?" it asked hesitantly. "Yes." Tensor replied. It gazed at him with half closed, calculating eyes, starting at the head, running slowly to his feet and back again. "You look human." it muttered. "Naturally," Tensor replied cheerfully. The appreciation was growing subtly now, and he found that the creature's mouth interested him. It was a strikingly lovely shade of red -- al wap Tensor's favorite color. And although there was a heavy and awkward sheath of artificial fabric about the alien, he observed with a rising fascination that the bulging of the thoracic sheathing indicated that it was female. Tensor became uncomfortably aware that he had better be careful of his induced somatic sympathy. After a moment of speculative silence, he said, "You haven't told me what you savages consider yourselves." "Don't call me a savage, you naked beast," she snapped back. "I beg your pardon," he murmured politely. "Merely a semantic difficulty. I'm sure. I assume that you consider yourselves human beings. then. Where do you come from?" "Earth -- the third planet." "I see. And you used mechanical devices such as this little metal egg to get here. Most curious." Tensor contemplated the thought with great interest, for obviously they used mechanical skill to compensate for lack of direct control. An exceedingly poor substitute, of course; but it explained everything he wanted to know. "Are there many of you natives?" she asked him cautiously. "Not like there used to be," Tensor admitted. "But still quite a few -- though not so many we get on each other's nerves." "How many in round numbers?" That was a silly question, Tensor thought. Nevertheless he told her, "Oh, I suppose about thirty or a hundred. We haven't counted for centuries. Nobody's interested." She appeared to be deeply absorbed in thought, gazing at him in an almost detached fashion. Finally she said. "Your civilization is based on the mind, isn't it? You do things with an act of will instead of with your hands." "Naturally. That is the essential mark of civilization. At least," he added politely, "from our point of  It view. "Are you -- telepathic?" "Only with other telcpaths," he said simply. "Then how did you learn my language?" "Oh. after you talk it a bit, I can see certain relationships. But the mental pictures are so discontinuous and nonspecific that it takes a little time before the pattern emerges." "That means you don't actually know what I am thinking?" " Correct . You have the potential, but you don't have the control necessary to permit it." A small, satisfied smile curved about her lips. Tensor found it oddly disconcerting. Despite the ugly sheathing, there was something about her that was quite pleasant. He began to feel that she was even beautiful, and as he disintegrated the sheath in order to appreciate her better, he realized that that it was undoubtedly the strange endocrine balance he had created in himself that was responsible for the attitude. Because there was nothing particularly well-designed about her. She looked unprepossessingly like a civilized woman, except a good deal fatter in places, which hardly helped matters from an abstract point of view. Tensor could only assume that his point of view was becoming less abstract. He observed that, upon his disintegrating the sheath, the noise was there again, issuing rapidly from her mouth, and lacking in detailed semantic significance. It was very curious, he thought, watching the rapid rise and fall of her pinktipped breasts. He could not determine whether the signal indicated terror or fury. # She solved the problem for him by grasping a small metal object from the rack beside her and throwing at him. He deflected it to the floor as it left her hand. "What," he asked politely, "is disturbing you so?" He liked the angry sparkle of her eyes. "You," she snapped. "Keep away from me." "I don't understand," he replied, moving closer and reaching out his hand to obtain a tactile sensation of her lovely hair texture. The woman compressed her red lips firmly and stood there, uneasily watching him out of the corner of her eyes as he gently stroked her head. "Do all females of your race look nice like you?" She nodded cautiously and said, "More or less." "Very curious."  A sly expression came to her eyes then and she smiled radiantly. "Look," she said, "would you do me a favor?" "Of course," Tensor murmured with unaccustomed eagerness. This was a very interesting experience, even though he was constantly having to reinforce and add to the chemical shift in his body in order to hold down the possibility of fatigue. He could not recall ever before permitting such an unusual somatic state. She gestured guilelessly toward the panel. "Would you help me repair my radio?" "Radio?" Tensor echoed vacantly, gazing at the place indicated. "Yes. I -- er, have to report to my superiors that I may not be able to return, even tonight." Again she smiled dazzlingly and with devastating effect on Tensor. "I'd be glad to," he said agreeably. "But I don't know anything about mechanical things. Couldn't you just tell me where your superiors are and let me teleport there? I'd let them know and come right hack." "Oh no," she replied quickly. She frowned a little wistfully. "No," she repeated, "they wouldn't like that. They never like anything easy. And besides -- " again the smile " -- I might not be here when you return, you know!" "Oh?" Tensor said, puzzled that she knew that he might be concerned over her absence. Possibly she had some power of direct communication after all. "It's just those cables that you destroyed over the panel," she told him in a softly cajoling voice. "I have some spares in the locker, and if you would help me replace them, it would be fine." Tensor floated over and peered into the stumps, examining the composition and structure. He nodded and reconstructed them instantly. She was obviously delighted and said, "I wondered if you could do that. May I use the radio now?" Tensor stared at the whiteness of her teeth contrasting pleasingly with the redness of her lips. "Go right ahead," he murmured. He decided he had better leave soon. of color glowed and shifted. She spoke and the panel issued its response. "Control to Scout Three. What happened there a while ago?" "This is urgent," she said. "Is the Captain there?" After a noisy hesitation, the panel replied. "This is Commander Carson. What's up out there?" "Listen carefully," she said. "I have an alien with me on the ship. He's already learned English perfectly. He is only slightly telepathic, so far as I am concerned, but he has great telekinetic powers." "We were afraid of that. Is he dangerous?" "Well -- he killed Lieutenant Anderson. Completely annihilated her with a simple act of will." She glanced at the bewildered expression on Tensor's face, and favored him with a quick little smile. "He is extremely powerful. He would be a very good friend." Tensor broke in asking, "What is all this talk now? I do not understand the purpose of it." "Don't you worry," she murmured softly, reaching up and patting him on the knee. "Just have patience." The panel rasped at them. "I see. Do you know' if there are many of them?" "He told me it was between thirty and a hundred, but nobody knows for sure. Presumably they don't have very much communication with each other." "Ah," rasped the panel in a satisfied tone. "Just a minute. I'll get a directive from the Captain for you." Tensor nodded slightly as he said, "Oh, I sec. That is your Council you arc talking to.' "Uh huh," she replied, dodging the hand that sought her hair again. She smiled coyly. "Now just wait. I want to hear what my superiors say." She pushed at him playfully, her smile growing strained as she desperately tried to kill time. Tensor was amused. Yes, he derided, it was time to go. He was not at all sure that he wanted to go, but he felt that it was wise. He had never in his life engaged in such lengthy and violent exercise and was alarmed at the thought of the fatigue pains he would have when he restored his balance to a civilized neutral again. The panel rasped noisily at them. "Captain Jonas," it said, speaking in a different accent this time. "There's a war going on and we can't akc any chances on how the aliens will feel about it. We have a fix on you and I'm sending a flight of homing missies. Nuclear warheads." She stiffened as she heard the sentence, her red lips drawn back from tightly clenched teeth. In a faint voice, she said, "I -- I guess there isn't much I can do about it, is there?" "Can you keep him there and busy so that he won't notice the missiles coming?" She gave a short, brittle laugh. "Yes sir. I feel fairly sure I can keep him interested for -- " she glanced speculatively at Tensor " -- a half hour at least. Probably much longer." "It'll only be fifteen minutes," the panel rasped. "We'll deal with the others as we find them. You will be decorated for this service, even though you are only a civilian. Posthumously, of course." The panel was silent. "Oh sure," she said in a deadly quiet voice. "I'm glad to be appreciated." Tensor was puzzled. The conversation did not appear to make a great deal of sense to him. He hovered overthe panel and gazed at it curiously. "Just another superior," she told him. "It seems that practically everybody is my superior -- or was." She sighed and looked down at herself, wistfully thinking that it was a shame to have to waste all the carefully nurtured loveliness that she knew she was. She looked up at Tensor, who had lost interest in the panel and was busily examining the outside in a viewscope. "Come here, big boy," she said quickly. When he turned to face her, she added, "keep your attention over here." With an agreeable smile, he floated to her and. in obedience to her directions, lifted her into his arms. She put her lips to his, her hands gently caressing his cheek. It was a shock. Tensor let out his pent-up breath explosively and ran his tongue over his lips, tasting the mixture of saliva and lipstick. What should have been moderately repulsive to him had been transformed by the chemical sympathy in his veins into something quite overwhelming. His eyes were bright and eager. "It's a dirty trick and I feel like a jerk," she whispered sadly to him. "But what else can I do?" "I beg your pardon?" Tensor murmured happily. "I do not understand you." "Oh well," she breathed softly, smiling a crooked little smile. "Neither one of us will ever know when it happens. A pity to spoil it so soon, though." In his unaccustomed confusion, Tensor could not follow her thought, but he could grasp the immediate situation. He grinned and nuzzled her affectionately, and decided to stay a while longer. his comfortable focus, eyes half closed and glazed, mouth droolingly limp and hands carelessly askew. He formed his hyperimage to appear erect and neat -- and with a politely interested expression -- while he idly contemplated the telepathic picture being projected into his own mind. "I see you've recovered," he said. "Splendid." "Yes, but what an ordeal," Tensor replied. His image took on the appearance of a relieved smile. "If it ever happens again -- I don't know."  "It was that bad?" Curl showed suitable lazy civilized sympathy. "I was afraid. All that teleporting of yourself and things." "It took me almost ten minutes to recover from it," Tensor said grimly. "Tsk tsk. That's a lot of lactic acid to locate and destroy. But the Council will appreciate it, even if Prime did complain, poor fellow." "Well, I promised to investigate and I'm a man of my thought. Of course, the curiosity vanished as soon as I got into actual communication with one of them." "They communicate?" Curl permitted His image to appear mildly astonished, which was the only civilized thing to do. "Tell me about it." "It's crude, but in some things successful," Tensor explained. "The alien I contacted was a female, for instance. When I adjusted for relative somatic sympathy so that I could stand the poor, uncivilized creature, I naturally acquired the full appetites of a male animal and this female seemed to understand some of my thoughts very well. "You simply can't imagine the violent somatic compulsions one encounters under such a balance." "Horrible," agreed Curl. "But I understand, my boy. I once fathered a child -- must have been at least a couple of thousand years ago. Purely out of scientific interest, of course, and never again." The physician paused and added, "Matter of fact, it's quite likely that you're that child. Can't ever tell about these things, you know." Tensor nodded in polite agreement and continued with his own story. "It wasn't at all bad while it was going on, because I was pretty well anesthetized from body chemicals. But the hangover was terrific." "Yes, no doubt." Curl appeared to consider a moment before asking. "What about this uncivilized hubbub the Prime raised that caused the council to order him to destroy himself?" "Oh, that. Well, just as I was about to leave, this primitive I was with coaxed me into playing an interesting but remarkably violent sport with her. And about the same time, it appears that her superiors, for some unknown reason, decided to destroy her. It seems that the aliens' Council doesn't let them take care of it themselves." "Uh, huh. How did they accomplish it?" "They used some nuclear breakdown devices, which I imagine serve their primitive society quite well. The devices have appetites built into them for a certain kind of target so they will know where to go. "But when I agreed to play this game, I naturally set up a privacy focus, so the ship wc were in just didn't exist for the nuclear devices. They kept on looking, though, and finally found a lot of similar ships back at the alien's main camp. Made an awful mess out of one of the Prime's favorite landscapes, I understand." "Well," Curl replied engagingly, "Prime should have had better selfcontrol. I don't blame the Council a bit, and it does fix things up rather nicely." His image smiled into Tensor's mind and then hesitated as he saw the concern there. "Doesn't it?" "Uh, yes. All except for the alien female that insists on staying with me, now, since none of her people is left on the planet. I told her two or three times to go ahead and destroy herself if she wanted; but she just rumples up my hair, grins at me and says she already has." He looked worriedly at Curl. "Well, that's just one of those things, I guess," Curl murmured philosophically...Sensing a local distraction approaching Tensor at that moment, he politely withdrew from the other man's mind. "I landed with such force that I came apart. Now each of my body cells lives a life of its own. And now and then each cell grows fat and becomes two. I am my sisters, I... Let's not be subtle about it. Mjly was a microbe, the beginning of animal life on the earth. She lives today, she is and always will be her sisters, her mothers, hcrsclves and (Continued from page #) her ancestors. But there arc few ancestors, for microbes do not die -- just part of themselves die. And I do not die. For I crept away into a hole in the ground, where I will live forever. I do not starve, for roots reach me here. But I miss my love life with Mjly. I can never be a mother or a sister. I will always be me, a lonesome old bem. The body tanks had to be replenished and the ship had to be serviced -- and the crew was having a Lotus dream in its bed of protoplasm. But Kelly knew how to arouse them... Has Anybody Here Seen Kelly f By Kenneth O'Hara Illustrated by Paul Orbon tentment and its communal singing brought a pleasant kind of glow that throbbed gently in the control room. " 'Has anybody here seen Kelly... K-E-doublc-LY ?' " "Shut up and dig my thought!" Kelly's stubborn will insisted. "I'm going on out for a while!" The delicate loom of the Crew's light pattern increased its frequency a little and the song stopped. "Better not," the Crew said. "But why not?" "No need." "We could be running into something bad," Kelly thought. "No danger now, Kelly. Checking the ship is just a waste of time." "How can you waste what you have so damn much of?" Kelly thought. "Do not leave us again, Kelly. We love you and you are the most interesting part of the Crew when you're with it." "The ship ought to be checked. Our bodies ought to be looked at." "We know there is no danger any more, Kelly. Do not go. There are so many interesting experiences wc have not even begun to share yet. We arc only half way through your life and we have not even started to experience your impressions of your colorful and complex Earth culture. And we have not even started on the adult lives of Lakrit or IJjub. Come back with your Crew, Kelly." "But no one's checked the ship for over a year!" "Please do not worry about the ship. Kelly. In fifty years nothing has gone wrong. Wc can trust the ship thoroughly now, it will take care of us." "It will take care of us! That's a helluva way to look at it!" "There can be no danger now, Kelly. In fifty years we have encountered every conceivable danger, every imaginable kind of world or possible menace." "Have we?" Kelly thought. "Every danger from outside maybe, and I'm not even sure of that. But how about danger from inside?" "Inside?" "Us. How about apathy for instance. Apathy's a real danger. You talk about this space-can like it was a big metal mother! Listen, I'm supposed to see that this tub holds together. At least until we get back somewhere near enough to the Solar system so we'll feel we've been somewhere else!" "But, Kelly -- " "I'm getting out for a while, I tell you!" "All right," the Crew sighed. The light loom faded a bit, down to a self-indulgent glow. "Hurry back to us, Kelly." "I'll give some thought to it." So Kelly concentrated on the increasingly painful and difficult task of tearing his consciousness free of the big glob of protoplasm in the tank, and getting it back into his body that hibernated in the bunkroom. As usual the switch was too painful. It stretched and stretched and finally snapped in an all too familiar explosion of shocking light. rustled as he sat up and looked around. There was the old feeling that there was dust over everything when there was no dust. There was all that emptiness sweeping away into the endless silence and he thought again, as he always did, how comforting and cozy it was being a part of the Crew. But someone had to check the ship. It was only machinery after all, and machinery could wear out, sooner or later. And he wasn't at all sure, as he kept insisting, that they had encountered all the possible dangers. It might seem that in fifty years you could run into everything. But fifty years was no time at all out here where time had no real meaning any more. His body squeaked as he took a few tentative steps about the hunkroom. One did not actually forget how to walk. It was just awkward as the devil. And the blood, the entire autonomic system, tended to slow down. It seemed reluctant to step up general metabolism. Apathy. Sure it was a danger. This time, Kelly decided, I'll do something about it. He was the engineer and he had signed on the great odyssey to keep the ship going. But the Crew was part of the ship. Was not there an obligation even greater to keep the Crew going? The four others lived but almost imperceptibly in some very low state of slowed metabolism there in the bunkroom and Kelly looked at them. The faithful and the wonderful ones. The ones with whom he had shared so many dangers and awful silences that the five of them had been able to evolve the idea of the protoplasm in the tank and merge their consciousness iri it. Kcw, the Venusian, in her bowl of self-renewing nitrate. Lakrit from a Juptcrian satellite, a fluorine fellow of distinction inside a sphere of gaseous sulphur. A crystalline character with a sense of humor named Lljub whose form gave off a paled glint as it nourished itself on silicates. And a highly intelligent but humble six foot iong sponge labeled Urdaz stuck in a foundation of chemical sediment at the bottom of a tank of reprocessing salt water. Each with their own special kind of appendages and sensitivities, each able to move his special closedsystem about through the ship by means of clever types of mobility. But basically, in outward form, they were too alien to have much in common. Only as intelligences, as life forces, could they share a common bed And it had evolved to that in fifty years. A bed of protoplasm in a shock-absorbent tank. Kelly looked at them warmly and thought about how it had worked out. The strange thing was that it did have a lot of good things to recommend it. Or had had them. It had solved the problem of intimate communication and driven back the tides of loneliness. It had lessened the dangers of mental and physical illnesses in the material bodies and assured a prolongation of the life of each body, which was important in itself, for this trip had proven to be a lot, longer than even the most pessimistic had anticipated. The Crew, pulsing in its tank, Kelly thought oddly, is a new life form. One that had evolved to meet the exigencies of deep space which had proven to be alien to any adaptability common to any world that rotated through it. But maybe they were too damn happy, Kelly thought. Too contented. If they ran into a real emergency now, the ship would be finished. The Crew in the tank was, itself, incapable of action of anv overt kind. It could not ma# nipulate anything. It could only be happy. And the bodies here in the bunkroom could not rally fast enough to meet a sudden crisis. And they had agreed that the first law was -- survival. But to survive this way might well mean destruction in another. So Kelly walked and thought about it. and weighed the precarious balance. He slipped through the silent ship and to the control room. He peered into the viewscopc. Some galaxy or other spun its giant pinwheel outward toward some destiny of its own. The high noon of the endlessness had been unfamiliar for years. He checked the ship's instruments. The Crew in the big tank simmered and throbbed in its introspective bliss, utterly oblivious to Kelly now. Kelly saw the red dwarf a few planets ground their familiar path around it. The second in distance had a breathable oxygen, according to the scopes, but little else to recommend it. Kelly straightened up. He had no idea when the plan had really started forming, but now it was formed. When Kelly made up his mind to a thing, there was no other course but to conclude it. He knew what he had to do. Somehow, even as part of the Crew, some part of Kelly had been able to keep that forming plan a secret. Which was a lucky miracle, for if the Crew had known his intentions it would certainly not have let him out this time. Even if you wanted out, Kelly reasoned, the Crew would keep you in. And maybe after long enough you did not care to get out.But once out, he wondered, could it keep you out if it decided to blackball a man for one reason or another? Like wrecking the ship? the control panel. Kelly saw his face grinning strangely hack at hifn, a bearded, hollowed, paled face with an unfamiliar glitter in the eyes. Every time he had left the Crew to enter and reactivate his own body, that bodv had seemed a little less familiar. This time it seemed to be almost entirely someone else. He stared at the face in the chrome, then w-hispered the hell with that and he flipped the controls over to manual. He sat down. Behind him, the Crew whispered in its tank, protoplasm developed in the labs and quivering now with some unified sensation that was purely subjective and blissfully unconcerned with what happened outside itself. "It's sick," Kelly concluded, with an emphatic clamp of his jaws. "It's not right!" True, sharing the intimate sensations of alien life forms like Kew, the female Venusian, had been exciting. Especially the sex experiences which, in a flower of Kew's type, was certainly something. There were interesting things to being a part of the Crew all right. But the main purpose, survival, had been forgotten. Now being the Crew was an end in itself. Kelly could imagine the Crew business going on and on until finally even the material bodies in the bunkroom would be forgotten entirely and allowed to rot away to dust about which the Grew would no longer care. And that was very bad. It should not have worked out this way. But it was not too late to do something, shake them out of the Lotus dream. He checked the scopes ifgain. Now the second planet revealed plenty of breathable atmosphere settled in the lower valleys. He headed straight for it. The Crew was soon going to get one devil of a jolt! He put the ship into a close orbit around the planet. It seemed nothing but a fearsome forest of oxydized spikes rising in corrosive silence, with here and there a lean slash of valley. There was no indication of life, no vegetation visible or revealed by the scopes. One of the valleys had a thin mouth of water stretching down the length of its face. Kelly set the speed and the controls and ran for the bunkroom and the shock-absorbant cushions. lie strapped himself in and waited. It was done. As long as the thing had gone so far, Kelly decided, the truth should never be revealed because that would lessen the therapeutic value of his action. He would wreck the ship. Not too badly. Not so badly that all of the bodies, distinct, separate individual bodies again, couldn't put the ship back together, as in the old days. And that would keep them in their bodies gladly for a while where they belonged! Where the good Lord had intended for them to stay. They would not be rocked away to apathy in a phony metal mother womb, thinking the ship was going to take care of them! The more Kelly thought about it, the better he felt. He stretched inside the straps. He felt his slightly atrophied muscles luxuriate over the tissues and bones of liis big frame. Any body, no matter what its shape, should be proud of itself. That was Kelly's belief, and this thing that had happened seemed somewhat blasphemous. Without bodies and their complex sensory recording apparatus, the rich consciousness enjoyed by the Crew could not exist, would never have been created at all. The Crew was living off the largesse of experience built up by their bodies. The Crew was just narcotized enough that it did not realize that the body banks had to be replenished. Metal shrieked. Kelly yelled feebly. He fought, he grappled with the threatening blackout like a man fighting an invisible opponent on an endless flight of stairs. The grinding rolling terror of the sound, the ripping, twisting, tearing scream of it cried on and on. Kelly knew one thing then. He had not figured it right. His calculations were off. The ship had hit too damn hard. the straps off and tried to move he fell painfully onto the tilted deck. One of his eyes felt sticky. He rubbed at it and his hand was smeared with blood. He shuffled around in a stumbling circle. Minor damages could  have been repaired. But this -- the ship was peeled open in glaring strips like a breakfast cannister. A cold wind moaned through the ship that was now nothing but a metal sieve. A hazy light filtered down and ran off the metal like cold flour rust. Kelly fell to his knees. "Kew," he whispered. "Lljub, Urdaz -- Laknt    The Venusian flower lady was sliced down the middle like a cabbage, and the nitrate bowl was shattered and Kew was dead in a pool of fading green blood. Smashed into the bulkhead was Lakrit's sulphuric bathtub, and his atmosphere had already filtered away with the wind to wherever it was going. Lljub's pale glow was out for good, and his crystalline heart was as opaque as a dead eye. Only a few pieces of Urdaz's tank were visible, and Urdaz himself had already turned to a powdery food that the wind ate slowly in long trailing streamers. "What -- what in the name of God have I done?' Kelly whispered . All dead -- No! He slammed at the bulkhead until the warped metal gave and he ran to the control room. The Crew -- the Crew -- He stared at the tank. Through a jagged opening in the ship's walls, the wind whined and plucked at Kelly's red hair. The wind was colder now. He kept on looking at the tank. He reached out and touched the big transparent curve of it and then jerked his hand back with a whimper in his breath. There was nothing in the tank. nothing but a blob of slowly drying slime. He pressed his nose to the tank. "Crew -- " he whispered. There was no life in the slime. When he pounded on the tank, the stuff collapsed in upon itself in withering flatness. Kelly yelled. The cold wind froze at his teeth. It sucked at his breath and dried at the interior of his mouth. He ran and climbed. The jagged periphery of the opening sliced at his flesh. But he did not feel it, and he fell twenty feet, without feeling that cither, down the side of the ship. He started crawling over the hard naked belly of the rock. He got to his feet. He ran stumbling down an incline of shale worn round and shiny by the wind that had blown here just as it blew now, and would blow for God alone possibly knew how long. lie fell and roiled to the edge of the water. He looked into it. He felt of it. He jerked his hand away. The stuff was icy. But it was worse than icy. It was dead. It was dead water. It was without any bottom, and without any life in it anywhere. You could tell by looking into it. The wind moved over the top of it as though the water were glass, and the water was the color of a slightly transparent naked blue steel. There was no life here. Maybe there had been once, who knew when, who could guess how long ago. But there was none now and even the water had forgotten it. Kelly cried out as he stood up. "What have I done?" He raised his arms at the hazy red sun lying over the spires of towering stone and metal like a bloated balloon scraping precariously over rusty spikes. "God, what have I done?" The cry echoed tinnily on the rocks and Hed on the wind. Kelly ran for a long way, falling and stumbling and getting up again. Kelly had always had one primary drive, and that was to keep going, no matter what. So now he tried to keep going. But there was no life on this planet. He had known that before. Some strange kinds of intelligence could tolerate some unpleasant worlds. But nothing would live here. Nothing could live here. "That's your fate," Kelly thought. He sat down and stared at the walls of rock and metal all around. "Your fate, Kelly. Your punishment, your well deserved hell." That was what it was. Retribution. And knowing that, he tried not to care. He tried to be glad and face what he deserved. If that were not the answer, then why had only Kelly been spared to face emptiness and silence and no life, all alone? The irony of it was that he would go on as long as possible keeping himself alive in his own hell. There was food aplenty in the ship, enough to last as long as hell cared to have him. He turned and started walking back toward the ship that seemed some five miles away. At that instant, the ship disappeared in an abrupt explosion that twised the rocks and a mushroom cloud flowered gently above the lake as Kelly fell trembling on his belly and hugged the ground and pushed his face into the shale while the wind tore and screamed around him and particles of flint ripped his clothes and slashed at his flesh. much farther toward where the ship had been. There was only a crater there now which would offer him nothing in the way of sustaining his very personal and thoroughly private hell. He walked. The effort became more difficult and finally he was on his hands and knees, crawling. The wind sucked at his ripped clothes, and felt like cold sharp steel in his raw wounds. But slowly and deliberately he continued to crawl. Kelly had always had the idea that a man should keep going and so now he kept on going. Even if there was no place to go, and you could not remember particularly where you had been, you kept on moving and fighting and slugging along until you could no longer move. He lay there looking up at the hazy rust of the sky with the naked spires pointing up into it for no reason at all, because there was nothing up there. He had been there and he knew. Nothing up there but space, black and without a beginning or end. He had not even checked the records of the ship so that now, lying here, he did not even know how far away from Earth he was. At the speed they had traveled, a ship went a long way in fifty years. But the ship, the records, everything was lost. And no one would ever know now how far they had come. Or gone. What was the differencc, anyway? But Kelly had no difficulty in remembering why they had come. They had come into space because that was how it was with those who fought their way up to being the dominate life form of whatever world they had lived on and grown and died on. If you were the kind who went into space, you went because space was there. Who needed a better reason than that? "Kcw," he whispered. "Lakrit, Lljub, Urdaz, listen now -- I thought I was doing the right thing -- maybe my idea was right -- but I just made a mistake in the calculations. I just made a helluva mistake -- " The wind sighed over the naked rock and the rusted metal and the rock and the dead blue water. He turned and pushed his head against the rock, and his body curled up against the bitter wind. "You've got to forgive me," he said. " 'Has anybody here seen Kelly? K-E-double-L-Y?' " He shivered and kept his eyes closed. It was part of the wind. He did not want to go out that way, hearing crazyvoices in the wind. " 'Has anybody here seen Kelly -- ?' " He raised his head and blinked and the wind drove tears down his cheeks. "Am I just hearing something that's going crazy inside my head?" He peered around. There was nothing, nothing anywhere of course, nothing where nothing had ever been, and nothing else but nothing could ever be. "You're wrong, Kelly. Your Crew's here." Kelly raised himself painfully to an elbow. "Where -- where?" "Right here, Kelly. We had a difficult time locating you. Sure, we forgive you. You were trying to do what was right. We know that." "There's nothing -- nothing -- ' Kcllv said. "You're wrong. The Crew's here and we're waiting." lie stared at the rock. He put his face against it and pushed his hands to it. There was a kind of dull glow in it, a faint hint of warmth in the rock. "How can this be?" Kelly said. "This is the life here, Kcllv. Perhaps there is life everywhere in the most impossible seeming places. And where life is, Kelly, we can live with it and be welcomed by it. Here, this rock is life, and it has taken us in. It has been here a long time. And it will be here for a much longer time." "Rock." Kelly said. "But hurry and come back." "But no one will ever know. How long -- how long can we wait?" "Who can answer that, Kelly? But maybe they will find the Crew someday." Kelly looked up once at the completely unfamiliar distances growing darker. Sometime, he thought, they'll come from wherever Earth is and find the Crew of the ship, find a rock here waiting the ages out. "Hurry, Kelly!" His head dropped against the rock. His hands slid down it, and a smile moved over his lips and froze there as the wind whispered over it. What Is Your Science I.Q.? that you are familiar with the terms they sprinkle through their stories so generously. But do you really know what they are talking about? Let's pin you down; see how many of the questions below you can answer correctly. Each correct answer counts five ; # is good, # is very good, and over # makes you a whizz! #. A distance of approximately #I light years is called a #. In which constellation is the star Botclgeuse located? #. The ability to move matter through force of mind only is called #. Which planet takes # days to travel around the sun? #. The point at which all molecular motion ceases is known theoretically as #. Which of the planets is the hottest in the solar system? #. The moon is in apogee when it is from the sun. #. In what year was the cyclotron invented? #. Ariel, Umbricl, Titania and Oberon are the four satellites of #. Approximately how many light years from Earth is the North Star? I #. Pluto, Mercury and are die only planets in our solar system that have no satellites. #. Which element is # times lighter than air? #. A day on Jupiter is as long as a day on Earth. #. What term do we use to describe the biological alteration of a species of living organism? #. The star sends out # times more light than the sun. #. At approximately how many miles an hour does the sun move through space? #. The Coalsack region is a nonluminous or dark nebula in the #. Which is the third largest planet in our solar system? #. A comet consists of a nucleus, a , and a tail. #. We know Atlantis is a supposedly sunken continent in the Atlantic; what is the name of the continent that is supposed to have sunk in the Pacific? Trading with Mr. Wetzle, whose fright chemistry was peculiarly akin to that of a good old American skunk , was dangerous business. However , Sammy had principles and nobody -- and no aroma! -- was going to shake him from them. By Theodore R. Cogswell Illustrated by Ed Emsh was only a hole in the wall, it what happened? Three times in was his drugstore; and if any two weeks hoodlums break in and gonifT from the Anti-Martian smash things up." League thought he was going to "I got my principles," said tell him how to run his business, Sammy sternly, he had another think coming. "Yeah," said Sarah, "princiHis wife Sarah wasn't seeing pies! Ten years we save so that eye to eye with him. It wasn't beyou, a registered pharmacist, a cause she was eighty pounds heaviman who placed third on the er and a foot taller than he was, state boards, should have a big it was simply that every time place you could be proud of inSammy got his back up, somestead of a dirty little hole like this, body got hurt -- and it was usually We finally get it and what hapSammy. pens? You got principles and the "Last time you said that it was bank has Rosen's Cut-Rate Drugs, to that nice young man from the Now we're starting over again, Merchants Protective Association business ain't too bad, already who wanted you to take out inwe've been able to put away a littie for a rainy day, and you and your principles want to start trouble again." "Trouble I don't want." said Sammy. "Trouble I've never wanted, I'm a peace loving man. But I got my rights. Sammy Rosen isn't going to let himself be shoved around by nobody." "Who's getting shoved? So ya sign a paper. Maybe you're going to drop dead, you should sign a paper? O'Reilly next door, he's not doing business because he signed a paper? All of Fourth Avenue and you're the only one that's got to be stubborn." "What should O'Reilly know about principles? Eight years now he's been having the same fire sale. Sign the paper, NO! There will be no sifjn in my window saying that Martians will not be served here." Sarah sighed in exasperation. "That green fur-ball comes here maybe two three times a week to buy a nicklc's worth of candy. For that business you should maybe get a brick through the window like last time? You sign the paper so we should keep out of trouble and next time he comes in you tell him he should go buy his candy someplace else and not get honest people in trouble." "You order some more chocolate syrup?" asked Sammy. "Last time I checked we were getting low." "Don't change the subject. That man said he would be back in ten minutes." "So he wants to come back, he can come back. It's a free world." Mr. Suggs was back in six minutes. He was a large man and the conservative business suit he wore didn't harmonize well with the bulk of his shoulders, his cauliflower cars, or the generally battered appearance of his fat face. "Afternoon, Mr. Rosen," he boomed. "Lovely day, ain't it. Kind of weather that makes a man glad he's alive and healthy. Right?" "Right," said Sammy with a touch of uneasiness. The big man opened his briefcase and took out a legal looking document. "Now that you've had time to think it over. I know you've come to see things our way. Just sign here and you'll be a member in good standing of the Anti-Martian League just like everybody else around here." Drawing himself up to his full five feet two, Sammy shoved the paper away and said with all the firmness he could muster, "Anybody wants to buy something in my store, that's what I got it for. All kinds of people come in here. I should start putting signs up this one can't come in because he don't vote the way I do and that one can't come in because he calls his god a different name than I do, and pretty snnn there's so many signs in the window that the sun can't get in and the only customer I got left is myself." He paused for breath and gave the document another shove. "Sammy Rosen's name don't go down on nothing like that!" "Listen, punk," growled the big man. and then suddenly caught himself. "Listen, Mr. Rosen, I agree with you a hundred percent. But what you're talking about are humans. Martians ain't." "Human or Martian, a customer is a customer. What's where a customer comes from got to do with my doing business with him? I go to pay my rent I don't have to fill out a paper saying where I got each dollar." The big man snorted in disgust. "So that's it. You little guys are all alike. You like to talk about principles but what you're really afraid of is losing a nickel. Well suppose I fix things so that by joining the League you make yourself a nice chunk of change on the deal?" Without waiting for Sammy's answer, he opened his briefcase again and took out a small vial and placed it on the counter. Sammy looked at it questioningly. "Maybe this will make you change your mind," said the big man. "What is it?" "A full ounce of Venusian Leather!" Sammy's eyebrows went up and he whistled in spite of himself. Like everybody else he had heard of the fabulously expensive scent for men put out by the House of Arnett, a perfume that had such a powerful emotional effect on members of the opposite sex that for years there had been some talk in the World Congress of banning it. "That's worth five thousand smackers on the wholesale market," said the big man. "Just put your John Henry down here and it's yours." "He'll sign!" said Sarah quickly. She turned fiercely on her husband. "You heard what the man said -- five thousand dollars! With that we can get out of this hole in the wall and have a decent place again. Think of it, Sammy, a big place on the corner with a neon sign six feet and purple!" The picture hit Sammy hard. He closed his eyes, the better to visualize the glorious sight. Like a man in a trance his hand reached out slowly for the fat-bellied fountain pen that Mr. Suggs was holding out to him. "You'll never regret this, Rosen. You're the last place within twenty blocks of the spaceport that hasn't signed. With the neighborhood one hundred percent against them, those stinking greenies are going to feel so unpopular that they'll have to pack up and go home." Sammy hesitated and then picked up the contract and scanned it near-sightedly. "There's an awful lot of small print here," he said. "It's all on the up-and-up," said the big man. "All that it boils down to is that you agree not to have no truck with any Martians that happen to come around. It's for your own protection. If we don't put that bunch in their place, pretty soon Earth will be swarming with those little stinkers." "Maybe so," muttered Sammy, "but five thousand bucks just so I don't sell a couple of nickels worth of candy, that don't make sense." "It doesn't have to," said Mr. Suggs. "Like you said yourself, when you go to pay your rent nobody's asking where the money came from. You want to keep Earth safe for Earthmen, you sign. Any time a Martian lands, he's put in Coventry. Nobody talks to him,  nobody does business with him, nobody even lets on he exists. Under the treaty the World Government made after the first landing on Mars, we can't keep them from coming here. But there's nothing in the law that says we got to make them welcome. This here contract is just a legal gentleman's agreement that -- " "A legal gentleman's agreement." Sammy's eyes were blazing. "What's eating you?" demanded Suggs. "What did ' I say?" "Enough! Enough to bring me to my senses. And for a fistful of dirty dollars I, Sammy Rosen, was going to be a part of it." He spat in self-disgust. "Now listen here!" "I don't listen to nothing. Get out of my store before I call a cop!" The big man turned to Sarah. "Can't you reason with him, lady?" She took one look at her husband's tight-lipped face and shrugged her shoulders hopelessly. "Not when he's like that." "You don't listen to nothing, eh, Rosen? We'll sec about that." He picked up his briefcase and the perfume and started towaid the door. When he reached it he turned. "You're going to find out what a stinker a Martian can really be. And when you do, you're going to be happy to sign -- for nothing!" night but nobody tried to break in and no bricks came crashing through the windows. When Sarah arrived with his breakfast, he was in a slightly happier mood. "See," he said, "no trouble." Sarah didn't say anything. Sammy was about to receive the silent treatment. Just after she left and he had settled down in his old rocker at the rear of the store to read the morning paper, he heard the tinkle of the customer bell from the front. When he saw nobody standing on the other side of the counter he knew who had come in. He leaned over the showcase and looked down at the little foot-high ball of green fur that was bouncing up and down in front of the candy case. When it saw him it piped in a fluttering flutelike voice, "A thousand greetings, egg-mother. May your fwentok never lose its rotundity and your gertlings embrace all eternity." "Mazcl-tov yourself, Mr. Wctzle," said Sammy politely. "Nice day, isn't it." "For Marslings the response is in the negative. Tomorrow is our last day carthsidc." "Business isn't so good?" "Business isn't. The streets are full of signs saying here we cannot enter, and the buyers who come to our ship look at our holds of dried kecra berries and laugh or say angry words and depart without buying." "Things'll get better," said Sammy comfortingly. "They're bound to." "Is not better, egg-mother, is sadness and departing. In the coming there were bouncings of happiness and singings in the companionways because now we were free of the Company and there would we no more horrors for our folklings "There's an organization behind it, from the dwirtles in the trading a big one, and they're spending a shed. Six of your years my peoples lot of money, a whole lot of had worked to save enough of the money." He thought wistfully of green earth paper to charter the the vanished five thousand dollars ship that brought us. We were and what he could have done with thinkings that because the Comit and then made a determined efpany prized the berries that here fort to banish the thought from his they would be prized too. But it is head. Reaching down, he slid open not so and now we must return to the door on the candy case, tell our peoples that we have found "What'll you have this morning, only failures. The Company will be Mr. Wetzle?" angry because we came and now "Nothings," said the little Marthey will ask more and give less, tian sadly. "The last of my earth And no protest will be made, for coins are gone and in my pouch without the pumps and other manow is nothings but valueless keera chine things we get from them to berries." He bounced almost to the bring the water up from the deep front door and then turned. "Of wells there would come again the you, egg-mother, there will be fond great hunger that was on us before memories. Blessings and farewell." the earthman came." "Wait," said Sammy impulsively, "There must be some way out," and reaching into the candy case said Sammy. "These berries, maybe he filled a small sack with an asif you took them to a good chemist sortment of licorice whips, lemon he could find out what they were drops, green leaves, bubble gum, good for." chocolate malt balls, and jawbreak"This we did," said the little ers of various shapes and colors. Martian. "And after waiting came "Here," he said, thrusting the a long report full of big words bag forward. "Take it with you which said in many different ways and eat in good health." was usefulness nothing." He paused Wetzle eyed the bag wistfully but and ruffled his silky green fur. "But didn't come forward to take it. you have been my friend and it is "I bless your thought, eggnot kind to be casting on your mother, but to take without payfwentok our troubles. My coming ment cannot be done. Such is the this day was to say farewell and speaking of the oldsters." blessings." He hesitated a moment. "Who said anything about no "And if you'll forgiving, to ask a payment," said Sammy. "If those question which is giving deep bothberries are good enough for that ering." . company on Mars, they ought to be "Yes?" said Sammy. good enough for Sammy Rosen." "Why for four little Mars peoples He paused as if he were making a could there be such a closing of quick mental computation. "I'd say stores against us and a putting of there were about ten berries worth signs in windows?" of candies in that sack." He held it "You've got me," said Sammy, forward again. "Here, take it." "But..." protested the Martian. "No buts," said Sammy firmly. "I run my business, I set my prices. Among friends there should be no argument." The alien hesitated for a moment and then gave a happy bounce that took him up on top of the candy counter. "Your goodness will not be forgotten," he said. "Take them all. For me they have no value." A small, slit-likc opening opened along his middle and a handful of small dried berries that looked like reddish color, tumbled out on the counter. The slit continued to widen until a large pouch like that of a kangaroo was exposed and Sammy placed the bag of candy inside it. The little Martian was half way through an elaborate expression of thanks when he was suddenly interrupted by a tapping sound from the front window. Both he and Sammy turned to see what was happening. Their responses to what they saw were rather different. In spite of the turned up collar of his trench coat and the pulled down brim of his slouch hat, Sammy was able to identify the man outside as Suggs, the Anti-Martian League agent. He was holding a bird cage in one hand and when he saw them looking at him he held it up so they could see what was inside. Hanging almost motionless on two pairs of tiny fan-like wings was a tiny reptile with a long jeweled beak and glittering scales that sent flashes of sunlight into the store. Sammy stared at it with a sudden lump in his throat. He had never seen anything so beautiful in his whole life. Wetzle was staring too, but not in admiration. "Make him take it away, eggmother, or something terrible will happen!" And just then something did. Suggs turned the cage so that the little flying reptile could look in the window. When it saw Wetzle it let out a sudden sharp scream of rage and threw itself against the bars with a violent beating of wings, a long dagger-like tongue darting in and out of its beak. The Martian let out a squawk of hysterical fright and flattened down on top of the showcase like a semi-collapsed football. Simultaneously a ring of tiny hose-like members erected themselves through his fur and shot a fine spray up into the air. Since Sammy was only two feet away, he got the full and immediate benefit of it. The stench was horrible, so horrible as to make the protective scent employed by skunks seem to be attar of roses in comparison, and so strong that for a moment Sammy was too stunned to react to it. When he finally did he staggered back drunkcnly, clapping both hands over nose and mouth in a vain effort to keep it out. His stomach heaved once, and then twice, and he made a sudden dive for the back room and made the nearest window. Unheeded, the man in the trench coat climbed into a car that was parked nearby, placed the cage on the seat beside him, and drove slowly away, a satisfied smile on his ugly face. staggered back into the front of the store and collapsed into an old wicker chair he kept behind the counter. He'd finally adjusted to the stench to the point where each breath didn't threaten immediate nausea but he was barely able to hold his own. "What happened, Wctzle," he gasped. The little Martian hadn't moved. He still crouched on top of the showcase, trembling half in fright and half in mortification. "The dwirtle, the thing in the cage, made me do it," he said miserably. "But it wasn't hurting you!" "Martian people have what you call built-in defendable mechanism," explained Wetzle in a quavering voice. "When dwirtle is commencing hunger dance the squirters goes psssst for life-saving. This dwirtle is killer bird, most dangerous thing on Mars. It stabs with tongue and is murder. Only spray from head things can drive it away. If I could have made control, it would not have happened, but head things are not part of thinker, they go off by themselves when dwirtles come." He let out the Martian equivalent of a lugubrious sigh. brought upon my friends fwentok great sorrow and for this I must make expiation. I now turn off my breathers." The three air sacks that were spaced equidistantly around Wetzle's body stopped their pulsing and in a matter of seconds a glaze began to steal over his eyes. When Sammy realized what was happening, he let out a horrified yell. "For Pete's sake, Wetzle, don't! I got enough troubles without having suicides in my shop yet." The little Martian didn't seem to hear. The light of life had almost flickered out when Sammy grabbed him and started to shake him violently. "Listen, dumpkof. To die isn't helping things, it will only make matters worse for me. Your -- your death will be on my fwentok " That did it. Wetzle gave a sudden gasp and his air sacks began to pump convulsively. "Now look," said Sammy sternly. "It wasn't your fault, you couldn't help it. You just sit there and don't do nothing while I try and figure out some way to get rid of this stink." The first and obvious thing to do was to open the front door and air the shop out. This he did and turned on the large overhead fan to speed things up a bit. As the Martian protective odor billowed out into the street, there were immediate violent protests from the neighbors. O'Reilly came charging over from the furniture store next door to see what was the matter, only to skid to a halt when the full force of the stench hit his nostrils. "Hey, Rosen!" he shouted after he had retreated to a safe distance, "What's going on over there? You got my store stunk up so bad that all my customers are running out !" Sammy hesitated, looked at Wetzle who was still hunched up miserably on the counter, and came to a sudden decision. The Martians wore having a tough enough time of it as it was. Something like this was all that was needed to tip the scales against them completely. Sammy had known what it was like to be the underdog and in spite of what had happened he felt a flush of sympathy for the unhappy little Martian. "It's nothing, O'Reilly," he yelled. "I'm making a little experiment and it's not going just like the book says. A couple more minutes and I'll have everything under control." "You'd better be quick about it," replied the other angrily, "or you're going to have a nice law suit on your hands." O'Reilly wasn't the only one who was objecting. As the stench spread up and down the street, more and more stores were involuntarily evacuated and more and more voices joined the angry chorus demanding that Sammy do something, and do it right away. Sammy tried. He tried everything in his stock of pharmaceuticals without success and at last was reduced to the patent deodorants he carried in stock. He tried every last stick, tube, and jar but nothing did any good. He was just moving toward the door to confess defeat and ask for suggestions when he heard the moan of a police siren coming down the street. Seconds later a squadcar came to a screeching stop right in front of the store. Two policemen came tumbling out, only to stumble to a stop and wilt as the odor hit them. Gagging and holding their noses, they scrambled back into their car and backed away until they found a spot where the stench was semi-bearable. The driver cranked down his window a cautious half inch and shouted a stem warning to the effect that if Sammy didn't do something about the disturbance he was causing, he was going to find himself in serious trouble. "There's nothing I can do," shouted Sammy. 'Tve tried everything!" "Then you'd better try something else," snapped the driver. "You're maintaining a public nuisance and if it ain't abated within five minutes, I'm going to haul you in." The ultimatum was greeted by a ragged cheer from the householders who had fled the flats above the stores on each side of Sammy's establishment. Only one tenant still remained in her quarters, a retired burlesque queen who was in the midst of a prolonged and severe attack of rose fever. Even her swollen nostrils, however, were able to pick up enough of the scent to cause her to lean out her third story window and shriek somewhat dated but nevertheless effective obscenities. With Wetzlp looking on helplessly, Sammy made one last desperate attempt at new deodorant combinations, but nothing had any effect on the horrible miasma that poured forth from the store. When five minutes by the store clock had passed, he appeared in front of his store, head hanging and feet dragging, to surrender himself to the law. Though innocent, Sammy was a law ahiding citizen. It wasn't his fault that he wasn't taken into custody. But he had been thoroughly saturated hy Wetzle's protective troubles," said Sammy bitterly, spray and the passing of time "The neighbors want I should cohadn't diminished its potency. As a operate by moving away. The city result, wherever he went he was wants I should cooperate by going protected by an invisible barrier. to jail as a public nuisance. So what He was only half way to the is it you're wanting?" squadcar when it suddenly darted "A simple statement to the away in reverse. For two blocks he press," said the voice smoothly. "All followed it with the spectators reyou have to do is to inform the patreating sullenly in front of him, pers who is really responsible for but every time he got within a himwhat happened. You might suggest dred yards, there would be a sudin addition that the Martian was den whine of gears and the car behaving in a disorderly fashion would roar back to a safe distance, and that when you asked him to The two policemen tried every leave he responded with an unproway they could think of to take yoked gas attack." possession of their prisoner; they "If there's going to be any telleven broke out gas masks hut even ing," said Sammy angrily, "it's gothesc didn't help. At last they gave ing to be about that bird." up and drove away to place the "What bird?" case in the hands of higher authori"Don't play dumb. The bird that ties, leaving Sammy to trudge back muscleman of yours held up to the down the street to his little drugwindow." store. One hour later the Army an"Now, now," said the voice renounced that they were moving in. provingly. "You don't actually believe that anybody is going to accept such a fantastic story as that, store the telephone was ringing how, we have a dozen reliable witviolently. Wearily he lifted it to his nesses who can testify that our Mr. ear. Suggs was in Flatbush playing ca"Mr. Rosen?... This is Mr. nasta with an aged aunt at the time Reynolds of the Anti-Martian in question. League." "You're an intelligent man, Mr. Sammy started to explode. Rosen. Use that intelligence. One "Look, Rosen," the voice continlittle statement from you and we'll ued. "Do you or do you not want start decontamination at once. And to get rid of that stink?" what's more, we'll still hold open Sammy suddenly stopped shoutthe offer that was made to you earing. "Sure I do," he said. "So lier." what?" "What's perfume got to do with "So we can clear the whole thing being Anti-Martian?" demanded up in a matter of seconds if you'll Sammy. "There's something fishy just cooperate." going on." "Every time somebody starts "The House of Arnett is just one talking cooperation, I get more of the many progressive firms who I # recognize the Martian danger to the terrestrial way of life," said Reynolds smoothly, in fact a shade too smoothly. Sammy didn't answer. He just hung up again. last, "just sitting here staring at each other ain't doing either of us any good. We got to think our way out." He picked up one of the red berries from the little pile on top of the counter and looked at it reflectively. "These things, do your people have any use for them?" "No, egg-mother," said the little Martian. "Sometimes the dwirtle are eating them, but they arc not proper food for Marslings." Sammy got up from his wicker chair and began to pace the floor. He'd never tried to play detective before and he didn't quite know how to go about it. "This company," he said finally, "how does it work?" "Isn't much work," said Wetzle. "Is just giving little bits of machinery for big bags of berries. The company has a concession for the whole north part that says no other Earthmans can come in, but they have only one station." "One thing more," said Sammy, trying to conceal the growing excitement in his voice. "These dwirtles, can they eat anything else?" "All kinds of things," said Wetzle. "But best of all they like Mars peoples like me." Sammy's face fell. "That was a blind alley. I thought for a moment that maybe the company was raising them for something or other and buying berries for feed." "I think not," volunteered the little Martian. "There are some dwirtlrs at the trading station but not lots. They are kept in cages like the small yellow birds you have on earth. The chief trading man is a lover of dwirtles. We are many times asking for him not to keep them in the trading sheds so as not to give us bad frights when we bring in berries, but he is a terrible man. He stands and makes laughter when the dwirtles start their dance and wc fall down in fright and our sprayers go ofl" "He must not he able to smell so good," said Sammy. "Begging your pardon, Mr. Wetzle, but a stink like you let out ain't no cause for laughter." "He's not in the trading shed. He stands behind a big glass window and talks to us through a radio thing." Sammy sat and thought about that for a while and then shook his head in a bewildered fashion. "I don't get it," he said dolefully, "I just don't get it." He looked down at the little red berry he held in his hand and then bit into it cautiously. It had a harsh bitter flavor that made him spit in distaste and throw the rest of the berry across the room. The bitter taste remained and caused his mouth to pucker slightly. He went hack and rinsed his mouth out with water but that didn't do any good either. "I know one thing that will kill it," he said. "And I need a drink anyway." Out of habit he looked around cautiously and then pulled a bottle of vodka out of a cabinet where he had it safely hidden from Sarah. "Here's mud in your eyes," he said and took down a thimblefull. The results were so pleasing that he took another. And then something happened. He sniffed. And then sniffed again. Against the swirling overtones of the pervading stench, something else was coming through. "Do you smell some tiling, Wetzle?" he asked. "Regretful, egg-mother," said the little green fur ball, "But Martian peoples have no smellers." "That makes sense," said Sammy, and sniffed again. It was definitely stronger now, a sharp masculine fragrance like nothing he'd ever smelled before. It seemed to have a definite source but for a moment he couldn't locate it. When he did he was thunderstruck. It was coming from his own mouth. It took him a couple of hours of trial and error before he got what he wanted, but Sammy hadn't passed third on the state pharmaceutical boards for nothing. First there was careful grinding of the berries with a mortar and pestal, then maceration in a solution which contained the same enzymes as normal saliva, and then finally reaction with a concentrated solution of ethyl alcohol. "We've got it, Wetzle," he said quietly, holding up a beaker of a E ale pink solution. "We've got it at ist!" "Got what," asked the little Martian in bewilderment. "The reason for both our troubles," he said as he began to sprinkle the liquid around the store. "Think about it. Go ask yourself why a big outfit like the AntiMartian League should be set up just to make you unhappy enough to go back home." As he talked the solution evaporated. As it did and came in contact with the tiny droplets of the Martian's defensive liquid that hung suspended in the air and coated all the exposed surfaces in the store, an intricate chemical transformation took place. In a matter of seconds the horrible stench had disappeared, leaving in its place a strange exciting fragrance that grew stronger and stronger until at last, much as he enjoyed it, Sammy's head started reeling and he felt an urgent desire for fresh air. Rushing to the door, he threw it open and stood in the entrance inhaling deep breaths of tainted air which automatically became perfumed as they touched his lips. At each end of the street there was a fire line, and behind the ropes stood his erstwhile neighbors. When they saw him they started in howling again, and in spite of the half-hearted efforts of the police, bottles, rocks, and sundry blunt objects began to fly through the air in his direction. Momentarily, that is, for as the new scent spread out through his door and down the street, a change came over the crowd. The shouting subsided to a puzzled muttering, and then as the odor became stronger, part of the populace began to react in a decidedly abnormal manner. The first to break through the ropes was the retired burlesque queen. "I gotta be loved!" she whooped. and dodging through the police cordon, came pelting down the street toward Sammy. The other females in the crowd weren't long in following suit and Sammy saw a deluge of women of all shapes and ages come screaming toward him from both directions, each chanting her own variation of the mating call. Almost too late he scooted back into the store, slamming down the heavy grill work that protected windows and door as he did so. "That's potent stuff," he wheezed as he collapsed into his old wicker chair. "I can see now why so much pressure was put on to run you off the planet." Wetzle gave the triple twitch that was the standard Martian gesture of bewilderment. "In this small head is confused thinking, egg-mother," he said. "Would you be so kindly as to make clarifications?" "Later. Right now I got to figure some way to clear the air. My wife Sarah ain't going to like this sudden popularity of mine." The clearing was relatively simple. After a few minutes of tinkering Sammy made the pleasant discovery that the new scent was susceptible to several of the standard deodorants and before long both the store and its owner had lost the provocative fragrance that had been causing chaos in the street outside. "And now," said Sammy with a heartfelt sigh of relief, "I think maybe we can talk a little business." They did. When they were through Sammy picked up the phone and dialed a number. "Anti-Martian League," said a voice from the other end. "I want to talk to Reynolds." "I'm very sorry but he's in conference. If you'll leave your name, I'll have him call you as soon as he's free." "Conference, shmom fere nee," said Sammy sternly. "You tell him Rosen Ls on the phone and wants to talk to him right now." Three seconds later he heard the unctuous voice. "We've been expecting to hear from you, Mr. Rosen. I assume you're ready to release that statement to the press?" "You mean you ain't heard?" asked Sammy. "Heard what?" "About me going into a new business." "Now, Mr. Rosen," said Reynolds soothingly, "that won't be necessary. We did have to get a bit rough to bring you to your senses, but we'll make up for it. That offer of a flask of Venusian Leather is still good." "That's awfully kind of you," said Sammy, "but me and Wetzle have been talking things over and we decided that wc ain't going to let nobody push us around. The reason I called was to ask if maybe your conscience wasn't bothering you enough for you to come over and clean up the mess you caused here." "Are you saying that you still won't give in?" Reynolds sounded incredulous. "That's right," said Sammy. A staccato burst of profanity came from the phone and then a series of reflections upon Sammy's antecedents that lasted a good three minutes. Sammy waited patiently until the other ran out of breath and then continued: "That was pretty good, but it's nothing to what you're going to hear when your boss finds out that his attempts to run Wetzlc and his friends back to Mars by setting up a phony league have backfired in his face. You see, in trying to get rid of the big stink Wctzle made, I found out something that the House of Arnett spent a lot of money to keep secret -- what goes into Venusian Leather. He paused for a minute to let what he had just said sink in. "Right now you're talking to one half of the firm of Rosen and Wetzle, cut-rate perfumers, manufacturers and sole distributors of ' Martian Leather,' the new perfume for men. You'll be seeing our slogan around once we get our advertising campaign going. It's 'Twice The Strength For Half The Price'." Galloping sounds came from the other end of the line as if Reynolds had suddenly taken to running across the ceiling. It was Sammy's turn to adopt a soothing tone of voice. "There, there," he said. "Sammy Rosen ain't the man to hold a grudge. I know that your League is going to be jerked out from under you as soon as old man Arnett hears the news, but I want you should know that you and your Mr. Suggs can always have a job with us. Wetzle and I are going to need a couple of men to take care of the collecting once we set up our new trading station on Mars. "Of course you won't have an air-tight glass cage to operate from, but it'll be a living." "And that," said Sammy happily as he hung up the phone, "takes care of that. Capital won't be any problem, but we got one more thing we got to figure out before we can go into production. We've got to find some way to get our raw materials without scaring your people half to death every time we want to make a collection." "Is full simplicity," said Wetzle, proud to be able to make a contribution at last. "An up like this," the tiny tubes rose up through his fur, "a little muscles squeezing like this, and -- " He was too late. How many did you get right? I -- kiloparsec. # -- Orion. # -- telekinesis. # -- Mars. # -- absolute zero. # -- Mercury. # -- farthest. # -- # -- Uranus. # -- #. #I -- Venus. # -- hydrogen. # -- one-half. # -- mutation. # -- Aldebran. # -- #. # -- Milky Way. # -- Neptune. # -- coma. # -- j Mu. ' Winged Autos -- Cars that look like planes aren't just a science fiction dream. General Motors has been testing a gas turbine auto that has a vertical tail fin, swept back delta wings and brake flaps on the wings to supplement the wheel brakes. "Fish Cakes" -- The latest in "fish stories" is a synthetic egg white made from fish waste. Tests have shown that cakes baked wdth this substitute ingredient are as good as those made with real eggs. Not the slightest "fishy" taste either. Electric Fly "Chair" -- If bugs keep building up resistance to insecticides, we may have to electrocute them. A new fly trap docs just that. Plug it into a household circuit and, after luring the flics with a sweet scent, the trap electrocutes them and then automatically conceals the dead carcasses in a container. Wind vs. Coal -- A landscape covered with huge windmills may seem rather anachronistic, but British scientists are working toward just such a goal. They are testing prototypes that will harness wind power to supplement coal powered stations. An average wind velocity of #-plus miles an hour would produce power equal to that of coal and would do it as cheaply. Noise Killer -- Loud nerve-wracking noises may soon be completely stilled. A new electronic device consisting of a microphone amplifier and loudspeaker feedback system is in test stages now. Attached to the headrest of a plane scat it can reduce to a whisper the low beat of the engines near a passenger's ear. Adaptation for use on factory machines is a simple matter of installation. Scientific Semantics -- Breaking the language barrier has been tried before with Esperanto, Ido, and Basic English. But die new scientific "supranational" Interlingua is spreading so fast that it may well accomplish that semantic understanding which has been sought for so long. "Miracle" Clothes -- You may soon be wearing clothes made of a radically new kind of yarn. Under tests this synthetic has been boiled in acids and baked at # degrees for days without harming a single thread. But don't plan a new wardrobe just yet; industry has first call on this particular miracle. Bacteria vs. Life -- We're on die road to a world devoid of bacteria, but scientists aren't happy about it at all. Large forest areas are drying out and land is becoming sterile because of the extinction of bacteria that make life-giving humus. In some places the desert is encroaching so fast that the process can be photographed. "Everlasting" Battery -- After four years of secret military production, an "everlasting" battery will soon be available. Using nickel cadmium cells in an alkaline solution, the battery is invulnerable to shock and vibration, works at temperatures of minus # to plus # degrees, and resists overcharging, reverse charging and short circuiting. It will even outlast the car. Insecticide "Injections" -- Trees of of the future may be able to kill off their own particular insect enemies. Tests on the African Gold Coast have proved that when certain insecticides are saturated into the soil around a tree, they are absorbed through the roots, and carried throughout the entire circulatory system. When insects attack the tree they die. Simple, isn't it? Mars and Saucers -- The Air Force has found that "saucer" stories are always more frequent when Mars is "close" to the Earth. Since Mars will be closer in # and # than it has been in the last # years, a system of cameras has been set up around the U.S. to clear up the mystery once and for all. Sea Farmers -- The continents and islands of this planet have been dissolving into the sea for eons ; so much so that future generations may find that the mineral, animal and plant resources of the sea, which have been nourished by this "land loss", are the only ones available for practical consideration. Climate For Mars -- Astronauts are seriously thinking of tampering with the planets to provide Mars with an atmosphere and climate suitable for terrestrials. Jupiter's sixth planet, which is thought to be an ice mass, could be made to intercept the orbit of Mars and so of water necessary to the production of oxygen by photosynthesis. Heart Revivor -- A "spark plug" that stimulates the heart-beat and can literally bring a patient back to life without benefit of surgery is being perfected. We can look forward to the day when doctors, going on house calls, will not only carry medicines in their little black bags, but will also have a compact, inexpensive heart stimulator for emergency use. Paper Snow Fences -- Highway snow fences made of paper are not a mad impractical dream. Tests made in Michigan have shown that paper fences are as effective as wooden-slat fences in stopping snow from drifting across highways. Ocean Radioactives -- We may be mining the oceans for radioactives in the future. Oceanographers have found a heat flow from the ocean bottom equal to that caused by radioactive elements on high and dry continents. Save Your Pans -- The lady of the house will be pleased to know that scorched and burned pots and baking pans will soon be a thing of the past. A plastic coating of polytetrar fluoroethylene on cooking utensils will save the day. Tornado Destroyer -- The loss of "lON-Conditioning" -- Rooms of lives from destructive tornados honed" as well as air-conditioned may someday be expunged from to help combat disease and fatigue, the records. Scientists believe that Tests at Stanford Medical Center a guided missile with an a-bomb have shown that an atmosphere warhead could be steered into a rich in positive ion charge is debaby tornado by radar to destroy it hilitating. while a negative charge before it could get started on a is extremely beneficial to comfort really destructive rampage devasand health, and aids immeasurably fating the countryside. in disease resistance. (Continued from page #) servation planes or any other availing touches on a sky giant designed able craft, often flying in open to become the first jet plane to fly cockpits in the face of sub-zero the Atlantic non-stop. It will carry weather and storms of sleet and ice # to # passengers and will make and snow -- and they smashed up the trip at a leisurely average of # all over the map of the United miles per hour, or about six hours States. By March of # the Adfor the crossing! Look for it in the ministration realized it had made a headlines around August or Sepcolossal boner and gave the mail tember. contracts back to the private airIncidentally, if you want to do lines. It was an absurd, costly exsome easy "boning up" on early periment but it proved the human aviation, get a copy of Wings Over clement to be strong and couraAmerica by Harry Bruno (pubgcous and capable. And, to me it lished in #) and have a lot of seems, one of the most dramatic fun. Harry Bruno grew up with all chapters in the annals of the Army the heroes and characters and Air Force was written during these "drum beaters" of the early days of few months. aviation and his story, void of dcBut the drama of Lindbergh's tails or technical angles, is a simple, flight had touched off the spark, straight-forward narrative chock Within a few years air travel befull of the people and events that came routine. People no longer preceded the world of aviation we gawked at the sound of a motor know today. roaring overhead. Since then miliSo, in these old stories, written tary planes have been going higher during the birth pangs of aviation, and faster every day. Civilian air is portrayed the human element -- transportation has been made safer, the curious, reckless men, with an faster and more luxurious. Today, insatiable appetite for adventure, out on the Pacific coast, the ultiwho were the instruments and mate in air travel is almost ready guinea pigs of modem flight -- the for test flight. Boeing Airplane kind who will pioneer the space Company is now putting the finishflight of tomorrow. -- jlq tractor is the result of o Moonquoke. The dry crust of the Moon, which burned itself out countless centuries ago, is susceptible to many treacherous changes which could snuff out men, machinery and entire bases in an instant In addition to the quake menace there are probably large areas where travel would be dangerous because of thin crusts of dust and rock concealing deep chasms. l i ' If Science Fiction Magazine ' v .  ' ' -- I,is. the growing-est  sei. on If you do not enjoy every eni'l'ficJtiQn magazine in...-mpivite of it. just let us know and America use ew r '  I rqf u n d your money at once! issue sparkles "vJith nR Tr you #)# like it (which we are r su#e-.yQu will) we will send you the next # issues fresh o(T the press -- which means you get # issues in all for the regular #.jO subscription price, saving you #.)! Mail the ideas and entertainment!... The finest fiction and features by the finest writers!... The best artwork by the best artists!... The finest paper and the finest printing by lar!... That's why readers everywhere arc calling it "America's most interesting science fiction magazine"... But why not sec for yourself? You risk nothing! We will send you -- All you have to do is mail the handy subscription form below. We will then send ou your first issue at once -- Only # money lack yuurunlccd IF Magazine, Kingston, New York Enclosed find # (check or money order) for which please send me IF Magazine for the next # months. It is understood that the first issue is a know and you will return the full subscription price at once!  equipped for research and living so that scientists, away from the home base for long periods of time, can make prolonged and intimate inspection of the Moon's surface. The ship's equipment includes radar, solar reflectors, radio, astrodome top, two huge fuel tanks, electronic instruments, computers, chemical laboratory and other exploration necessities, as well as health and comfort facilities. Now turn to inside back cover. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg: The Old Spaceman's Tales  Theodore Cogswell  Investigating the Moon's Resources  IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue an sale July I # th # I #  #  #  comes in the form of an interesting letter received from Mrs. Alma McCormick, of Richland, Washington, who takes slight issue with The Golden Man , by Philip K. Dick, which appeared in the April issue. Mrs. McCormick enjoyed the story but disagrees with the mutant theme. We enjoyed her letter, and think you will too. Dear Mr. Quinn: Your Chat With the Editor in April IF is thoroughly enjoyable... But I have another theme to suggest: the theme that homo superior , the mutants, will be and must be hunted out and destroyed by homo sapiens when and if he ever occurs. I admit that "The Golden Man # by Dick doesn't deal with homo superior as much as it does with "horrible tribes of mutant freaks # who might justifiably be a source of horror and terror. But the last paragraph, page #, takes the same stand that was taken in the book "Dragon Island # (and countless other stories) : "Which race? Not the human race...' . If we introduce a mutant to keep us going, it'll be mutants, not us, who'll inherit the earth. It'll be mutants surviving for their own sake... To survive, we've got to cold-deck them right from the start." Now, really! I'm a teacher... of exceptional children. This semester they are mentally retarded children, as far below the abilities of normal children as homo sapiens would be below homo superior. They cannot and never will be able to take care of themselves, but we carefully teach them all they can learn (very simple reading, social graces, grooming, use of household and play equipment, counting and use of coins). We don't, and never expect the rest of the world to, compete with them. They're certainly not being "cold-decked # from the start. On the other hand, I have taught superior children. Not superior to the extent of homo superior, true. I did have one "gifted class" however that had an average I.Q. of #... If I remember correctly, the highest # or # members rated between # I.Q. and # I.Q. -- ratings that occur in a very, very thin "cream" on top of the general population. The # I.Q. rating occurs about # times in # children if we can trust statistics... And what were they like? And how did the schools and the general population treat them? Well, they were a joy to teach and sometimes a bit difficult to handle. All of them spoke two languages (Engglish and Spanish) and had learned to speak Spanish fluently and reasonably correctly in six weeks. Many also spoke from one to three more languages. (They were children of diplomats and industrialists and had travelled extensively.) They learned everything else as rapidly as they learned languages, and the few merely average children, who learned at merely average rates, not only enjoyed the pyrotechnics of some of their discussions but seemed to catch fire from them to do better work of their own. For example, have you ever seen the trouble teachers of average high school classes (or even college classes) have when they try to get students to "document" papers they write or ideas they propound by sufficient reading even when the teachers give a bibliography already prepared? These # to # year old children would discuss a new item of knowledge or a new idea, and the next day a good many of them would come to class with armloads of books from the library with paragraphs, chapters, or full-time treatment of the subject. At first it was only the brighter ones; later even the few merely average were doing the same thing. Such children are not only a joy (though I know some teachers loathe working with "precocious brats") ; they seem to be a lift to others. Except in one situation : when you have one exceedingly or school, you have a bored, conceited, self-centered, isolated, rebellious, bothersome pest. One mutant, one homo superior might be like that. But from my experience with the superior child, and from the kudos our world hands such men as Einstein, Oppenheimer, etc., I think we would merely be more impressed and even happier with a truly new race, a truly superior race. They might not be highly impressed with us, but even now we have our intelligentsia who associate mostly with each other, our average who associate with the average, and the dull who are happy with the dull... and even our waydown-below-average like my little ones who are happy as larks when they are with each other. Brains seek their own level... Rather than Cro Magnon killing off all the Neanderthal, isn't it possible that their taking over was a matter of natural selection plus absorption? If mutants arrived, it seems more likely (to me) that homo sapiens would be absorbed gradually (many a genius marries a mere average spouse) ; if homo superior bred true, his more resistant body could probably stand the disease and injuries the world hands out better and his children would inherit the earth. If present mankind died out, I doubt that it would be in gas chambers or crematoriums, and those of us who lived out a full life-time (as the Neanderthals perhaps did) would live it admiring and accepting the leadership of the superior race because they'd make our lives richer and fuller too. Sincerely yours, (Mrs.) Alma McCormick members to be supreme in scientific achievement. Now the Rykes were going to share their vast knowledge with the scientists of Earth. T o any question they would supply an answer -- for a price. And Hockley, of all Earth's scientists, was the stubborn one who wanted to weigh the answers with the costs... By Raymond F. Jones Illustrated by Ed Emsh tific Services, Information and Coordination was a somewhat misleading and obscure title, and Dr. Sherman Hockley who held it was not the least of those whom the title misled and sometimes obscured. He told himself he was not a mere library administrator, although he was proud of the information files built up under his direction. They contained the essence of accumulated knowledge found to date on Earth and the extraterrestrial planets so far contacted. He didn't feel justified in claiming to be strictly a research supervisor, either, in spite of duties as top level administrator for all divisions of the National Standardization and Research Laboratories and their subsidiaries in government, industry, and education. During his term of supervision the National Laboratories had made a tremendous growth, in contrast to a previous decline. Most of all, however, he disclaimed being a figurehead, to which all the loose strings of a vast and rambling organization could be tied. But sometimes it was quite difficult to know whether or not that was his primary assignment after all. His unrelenting efforts to keep out of the category seemed to be encountering more and more determination to push him in that direction. Of course, this was merely the way it looked in his more bitter moments -- such as the present. Normally, he had a full awareness of the paramount importance of his position, and was determined to administer it on a scale in keeping with that importance. His decision could affect the research in the world's major laboratories. Not that he was a dictator by any means, although there were times when dictation was called for. As when a dozen projects needed money and the Congress allotted enough for one or two. Somebody had to make a choice -- His major difficulty was that active researchers knew it was the Congressional Science Committee which was, ultimately responsible for their bread and butter. And the Senators regarded the scientists, who did the actual work in the laboratories, as the only ones who mattered. Both groups tended to look upon Hockley's office as a sort of fulcrum in their efforts to maintain balance with each other -- or as referee in their sparring for adequate control over each other. At that, however, things researchwise were better than ever before. More funds and facilities were available. Positions in pure research were more secure. And then, once again, rumors circulate wildly a few days ago. Since Man's achievement of extra-galactic flight, stories of Rykeand made research scientists sick with longing when they considered the possible truth of what they heard. The planet was rumored to be a world of super-science, whose people had an answer for every research problem a man could conceive. The very few Earthmen firmed the rumors. It was a paradise, according to their stories. And among other peoples of the galaxies were acknowledged supreme in scientific achievement. None challenged them. None even approached them in abilities. What made the situation so frustrating to Earthmen was the additional report that the Rykes were quite altruistically sharing their science with a considerable number of other worlds on a fee basis. Earth scientists became intoxicated at the mere thought of studying at the feet of the exalted Rykes. Except Dr. Sherman Hockley. From the first he had taken a dim view of the Ryke reports. Considering the accomplishments of the National Laboratories, he could see no reason for his colleagues' halfshameful disowning of all their own work in favor of a completely unknown culture several hundred million light years away. They were bound to contact more advanced cultures in their explorations -- and could be thankful they were as altruistic as the Rykes! -- but it was no reason to view themselves as idiot children hoping to be taught by the Rykes. He had kept his opinions very much to himself in the past, since they were not popular with his associates, who generally regarded his attitudes as simply old-fashioned. But now, for the first time, a Ryke ship was honoring Earth with a visit. There was almost hysterical speculation over the possibility that Earth would be offered tutelage by the mighty Ryke scientists. Hockley wouldn't hhve said he was unalterably opposed to the idea. He would have described himself as extremely cautious. What he did oppose wholeheartedly was the enthusiasm that painted the Rykes with pure and shining light, without a shadowy hue in the whole picture. Since his arrival, the Ryke envoy had been closeted with members of the Congressional Science Committee. Not a word had leaked as to his message. Shortly, however, the scientists were to be let in on the secret which might affect their careers for better or for worse during the rest of their lives, and for many generations to come. The meeting was going to be -- Hockley jumped to his feet as he glanced at the clock. He hurried through the door to the office of his secretary, Miss Cardston, who looked meaningfully at him as he passed. 'Til bet there isn't a Senator on time," he said. In the corridor he almost collided with Dr. Lester Showalter, who was his Administrative Assistant for Basic Research. "The Ryke character showed up fifteen minutes ago," said Showalter. "Everyone's waiting." "We've got six minutes yet," said Hockley. He walked rapidly beside Showalter. "Is there any word on what the envoy's got that's so important?" "No. I've got the feeling it's something pretty big. Wheeler and Johnson of Budget are there. Somebody said it might have something to do with the National Lab." "I don't see the connection between that and a meeting with the Ryke," said Hockley. Showalter stopped at the door of the conference room. "Maybe they want to sell us something. At any rate, we're about to find out." The conference table was surrounded by Senators of the Committee. Layered behind them were scientists representing the cream of Hockley's organization. Senator Markham, the bulky, red-faced Chairman greeted them. "Your seats are reserved at the head of the table," he said. "Sorry about the time," Hockley mumbled. "Clock must be slow." "Quite all right. We assembled just a trifle early. I want you to meet our visitor, Special Envoy Markham introduced them, and the stick-thin envoy arose with an extended hand. His frail, whistling voice that was in keeping with his bird-like character spoke in clear tones. "I am happy to know you. Dr. Hockley, Dr. Showalter." The two men sat down in good view of the visitor's profile. Hockley had seen the Rykes before, but had always been repelled by their snobbish approach. Characteristically, the envoy bore roughly anthropomorphic features, including a short feather covering on his dorsal side. He was dressed in bright clothing that left visible the streak of feathering that descended from the bright, plumed crown and along the back of his neck. Gravity and air pressure of Earth were about normal forliim. For breathing, however, he was required to wear a small device in one narrow nostril. This was connected to a compact tank on his shoulder. Markham called for order and introduced the visitor. There was a round of applause. Liacan bowed with a short, stiff gesture and let his small black eyes dart over the audience. With an adjustment of his breathing piece he began speaking. "It is recognized on Earth' he said, "as it is elsewhere, that my disputed intellectual leadership in the galaxies of the Council. Your research is concerned with things taugfit only in the kindergartens of my world. Much that you hold to be true is in error, and your most profound discoveries are self-evident to the children of my people." Hockley felt a quick, painful contraction in the region of his diaphragm. So this was it! "We are regarded with much jealousy, envy, and even hatred by some of our unlearned neighbors in space," said the Ryke. "But it has never been our desire to be selfish with our superior achieve- ments which make us the object of these feelings. We have undertaken a program of scientific leadership in our interstellar neighborhood. This began long before you came into space and many worlds have accepted the plan we offer. "Obviously, it is impractical to pour out all the knowledge and basic science we have accumulated. Another world would find it impossible to sort out that which was applicable to it. What we do is act as a consultation center upon which others can call at will to obtain data pertaining to any problem at hand. Thus, they are not required to sort through wholly inapplicable information to find what they need. "For example, if you desire to improve your surface conveyances, we will supply you with data for building an optimum vehicle suitable for conditions on Earth and which is virtually indestructible. You will of course do your own manufacturing, but even there we can supply you with technology that will make the process seem miraculous by your present standards. "Our services are offered for a fee, payable in suitable items of goods or raw materials. When you contemplate the freedom from monotonous and unending research in fields already explored by us, I am certain you will not consider our fees exorbitant. Our desire is to raise the cultural level of all peoples to the maximum of which they are capable. We know it is not possible or even desirable to bring others to our own high levels, but we do offer assistance to all cultures in accord with their ability to receive. The basic principle is that they shall ask -- and whatever is asked for, with intelligence sufficient for its utilization, that shall be granted. "I am certain I may count on your acceptance of the generous offer of my people." The envoy sat down with a jiggling of his bright plume, and there was absolute silence in the room. Hockley pictured to himself the dusty, cobweb laboratories of Earth vacated by scientists who ran to the phone to call the Rykes for answers to every problem. Senator Markham stood up and glanced over the audience. "There is the essence of the program which has been submitted to us," he said. "There is a vast amount of detail which is, of course, obvious to the minds of our friends on Rykeman of much deliberation on the part of us comparatively simple minded Earthmen." He gave a self-conscious chuckle, which got no response. Hockley felt mentally stunned. Here at last was the thing that had been hoped for by most, anxiously awaited by a few, and opposed by almost no one. "The major difficulty , # said Markham with slow dignity, "is the price. It's high, yes. In monetary terms, approximately twelve and a no man in his right mind would consider any reasonable figure too high for what we can expect to receive from our friends of Rykeman HL "We of the Science Committee do not believe, however, that we could get a commitment for this sum to be added to our normal budget. Yet there is a rather obvious solution. The sum required is very close to that which is now expended on the National Standardization and Research Laboratories . # Hockley felt a sudden chill at the back of his neck. "With the assistance of the Rykes , # said Markham, "we shall have no further need of the National Laboratories. We shall require but a small staff to analyze our problems and present them to the Rykes and relay the answers for proper assimilation. Acceptance of the Ryke program provides its own automatic financing l # He glanced about with a triumphant smile. Hockley felt as if he were looking through a mist upon something that happened a long time ago. The National Lab! Abandon the National Lab! Around him there were small nods of agreement from his colleagues. Some pursed their lips as if doubtful -- but not very much. He waited for someone to rise to his feet in a blast of protest. No one did. For a moment Hockley's own hands tensed on the back of the chair in front of him. Then he slumped back to his seat. Now was not the time. They had to thrash it out among themselves. He had to show them the magnitude of this bribe. He had to find an argument to beat down the Congressmen's irrational hopes of paradise. He couldn't plead for the Lab on the grounds of sentiment -- or that it was sometimes a good idea to work out your own problems. The Senators didn't care for the problems or concerns of the scientists. It appeared that even the scientists themselves had forgotten to care. He had to slug both groups with something very solid. Markham was going on. "We are convinced this is a bargain which even the most obstinate of our Congressional colleagues will be quick to recognize. It would be folly to compute with building blocks when we can gain access to giant calculators. There should be no real difficulty in getting funds transferred from the National Laboratory. "At this time we will adjourn. Liacan leaves this evening. Our acceptance of this generous offer will ly upon official sanction by the Congress. I wish to ask this same group to meet again for discussion of the details incident to this transfer of operations. Let us say at ten o'clock in the morning, gentlemen." envoy. Afterwards, he moved through the circle of Senators to his own group. In the corridor they tightened about him and followed along as if he had given an order for them to follow him. He turned and attempted a grin. "Looks like a bull session is in order, gents. Assembly in five minutes in my office." As he and Showalter opened the door to Miss Cardston's office and strode in, the secretary looked up with a start. "I thought you were going to meet in the conference room." "We've met," said Hockley. "This is the aftermeeting. Send out for a couple of cases of beer." He glanced at the number surging through the doorway and fished in his billfold. "Better make it three. This ought to cover it." With disapproval, Miss Cardston picked up the bills and turned to the phone. Almost simultaneously there was a bellow of protest and an enormous, ham-like hand gripped her slender wrist. She glanced up in momentary fright. Dr. Forman K. Silvers was holding her wrist with one hand and clapping Hockley on the back with the other. "This is not an occasion for beer, my boy!" he said in an enormous voice. "Make that a case of champagne, Miss Cardston." He released her and drew out his own billfold. "Get somebody to bring in a couple of dozen chairs," Hockley said. In his own office he walked to the window behind his desk and stood facing it. The afternoon haze was coming up out of the ocean. Faintly visible were the great buildings of the National Laboratories on the other side of the city. Above the mist the sun caught the tip of the eight story tower where the massive field tunnels of the newly designed gamma tron were to be installed. Or were to have been installed. The gammatron was expected to make possible the creation of gravitational fields up to five thousand g's. It would probably be a mere toy to the Rykes, but Hockley felt a fierce pride in its creation. Maybe that was childish. Maybe his whole feeling about the Lab was childish. Perhaps the time had come to give up childish things and take upon themselves adulthood. But looking across the city at the concrete spire of the gammatron, he didn't believe it. He heard the clank of metal chairs as a couple of clerks began bringing them in. Then there was the clink of glassware. He turned to see Miss Cardston stiffly indicating a spot on the library table for the glasses and the frosty bottles. Hockley walked slowly to the table and filled one of the glasses. He raised it slowly. "It's been a short life but a merry one, gentlemen." He swallowed the contents of the glass too quickly and returned to his desk. "You don't sound very happy about the whole thing," said Mortenson, a chemist who wore a neat, silvery mustache. "Are you overjoyed," said Hockley, "that we are to swap the National Lab for a bottomless encyclopedia?" "Yes, I think so," said Mortenson. "There are some minor objections, but in the end I'm certain we'll all be satisfied with what we get . # "Satisfied! Happy!" exclaimed the mathematician, Dr. Silvers. "How can you use words so prosaic and restrained in references to these great events which we shall be privileged to witness in our lifetimes?" He had taken his stand by the the glasses with the clear, bubbling champagne, sloshing it with ecstatic abandon over the table and the rug. Hockley glanced toward him. "You don't believe, then. Dr. Silvers, that we should maintain any reserve in regard to the Rykes?" "None whatever! The gods themselves have stepped down and offered an invitation direct to paradise. Should we question or hold back, or say we are merely happy. The proper response of a man about to enter heaven is beyond words!" The bombast of the mathematician never failed to enliven any backroom session in which he participated. "I have no doubt," he said, "that within a fortnight we shall be in possession of a solution to the Legrandian Equations. I have sought this for forty years." "I think it would be a mistake to support the closing of the National Laboratories," said Hockley slowly. As if a switch had been thrown, their expressions changed. There was a sudden carefulness in their stance and movements, as if they were feinting before a deadly opponent. "I don't feel it's such a bad bargain," said a thin, bespectacled physicist named Judson. He was seated across the room from Hockley. "I'll vote to sacrifice the Lab in exchange for what the Rykes will give us." "That's the point," said Hockley. "Exactly what are the Rykes going to give us? And we speak very glibly of sharing their science. But shall we actually be in any position to share it? What becomes of the class of scientists on Earth when the Lab is abandoned?" Wilkins stood abruptly, his hands shoved part way into his pockets and his lower jaw extended tensely. "I don't believe that's part of this question," he said. It is not just we scientists who are to share the benefits of the Rykes. It is Mankind. At this time we have no right to consider mere personal concerns. We would betray our whole calling -- our very humanity -- if we thought for one moment of standing in the way of this development because of our personal concern over economic and professional problems. There has never been a time when a true scientist would not put aside his personal concerns for the good of all." Hockley waited, half expecting somebody to start clapping. No one did, but there were glances of selfrighteous approval in Wilkins' direction. The biologist straightened the sleeves of his coat with a smug gesture and awaited Hockley's rebuttal. "We are Mankind," Hockley said finally. "You and I are as much a part of humanity as that bus load of punch machine clerks and store managers passing on the street outside. If we betray ourselves we have betrayed humanity. "This is not a sudden thing. It is the end point of a trend which has gone on for a long time. It began with our first contacts beyond the galaxy, when we realized there were peoples far in advance of us in science and economy. We have been feeding on them ever since. Our own developments have shrunk in direct proportion. For a long time we've been on the verge of becoming intellectual parasites in the Universe. Acceptance of the Ryke offer will be the final step in that direction." Instantly, almost every other man in the room was talking at once. Hockley smiled faintly until the angry voices subsided. Then Silvers cleared his throat gently. He placed his glass beside the bottles on the table with a precise motion. "I am sure," he said, "that a moment's thought will convince you that you do not mean what you have just said. "Consider the position of pupil and teacher. One of Man's greatest failings is his predilection for assuming always the position of teacher and eschewing that of pupil. There is also the question of humility, intellectual humility. We scientists have always boasted of our readiness to set aside one so-called truth and accept another with more valid supporting evidence. "Since our first contact with other galactic civilizations we have had the utmost need to adopt an attitude of humility. We have been fortunate in coming to a community of worlds where war and oppression are not standard rules of procedure. Among our own people we have encountered no such magnanimity as has been extended repeatedly by other worlds, climaxed now by the Ryke's magnificent offer. "To adopt sincere intellectual humility and the attitude of the pupil is not to function as a parasite, Dr. Hockley." "Your analogy of teacher and pupil is very faulty in expressing our relation to the Rykes," said Hockley. "Or perhaps I should say it is too hellishly accurate. Would you have us remain the eternal pupils? The closing of the National Laboratories means an irreversible change in our position. Is it worth gaining a universe of knowledge to give up your own personal free inquiry?" "I am sure none of us considers he is giving up his personal free inquiry," said Silvers almost angrily. "We see unlimited expansion beyond anything we have imagined in our wildest dreams." On a few faces there were frowns of uncertainty, but no one spoke up to support him. Hockley knew that until this vision of paradise wore off there were none of them on whom he could count. He smiled broadly and stood up to ease the tension in the room. "Well, it appears you have made your decision. Of course, Congress can accept the Ryke plan whether we approve or not, but it is good to go on record one way or the other. I suppose that on the way out tonight it would be proper to check in at Personnel and file a services available notification." And then he wished he hadn't said that. Their faces grew a little more set at his unappreciated attempt at humor. the others left. He sat across the desk while Hockley turned back to the window. Only the tip of the gammatron tower now caught the late afternoon sunlight. "Maybe I'm getting old," Hockley said. "Maybe they're right and the Lab isn't worth preserving if it means the difference between getting or not getting tutelage from the Rykes." "But you don't feel that's true," said Showalter. "No." "You're the one who built the Lab into what it is. It has as much worth as it ever had, and you have an obligation to keep it from being destroyed by a group of politicians who could never understand its necessity." "I didn't build it," said Hockley. "It grew because I was able to find enough people who wanted the institution to exist. But I've been away from research so long -- I never was much good at it really. Did you ever know that? I've always thought of myself as a sort of impressario of scientific productions, if I might use such a term. Maybe those closer to the actual work are right. Maybe I'm just trying to hang onto the past. It could be time for a jump to a new kind of progress." "You don't believe any of that." Hockley looked steadily in the direction of the Lab buildings. "I don't believe any of it. That isn't just an accumulation of buildings over there, with a name attached to them. It's the advancing terminal of all Man's history of trying to find out about himself and the Universe. It started before Neanderthal years ago. From then until now there's a steady path of trial and error -- of learning. There's exultation and despair, success and failure. Now they want to say it was all for nothing." "But to be pupils -- to let the Rykes teach us -- " "The only trouble with Silvers' argument is that our culture has never understood that teaching, in the accepted sense, is an impossibility. There can be only learning -- never teaching. The teacher has to be eliminated from the actual learning process before genuine learning can ever take place. But the Rykes offer to become the Ultimate Teacher." "And if this is true," said Showalter slowly, "you couldn't teach it to those who disagree, could you? They'd have to learn it for themselves." Hockley turned. For a moment he continued to stare at his assistant. Then his face broke into a narrow grin. "Of course you're right I There's only one way they'll ever learn it : go through the actual experience of what Ryke tutelage will mean." Most of the workrooms at Information Central were empty this time of evening. Hockley selected the first one he came to and called for every scrap of data pertaining amount of information available on the physical characteristics of the world. Hockley scribbled swift, privately intelligible notes as he scanned. The Rykes lived under a gravity one third heavier than Earth's, with a day little more than half as long, and they received only forty percent as much heat from their frail sun as Earthmen were accustomed to. Cultural characteristics included a trading system that made the entire planet a single economic unit. And the planet had no history whatever of war. The Rykes themselves had contributed almost nothing to the central libraries of the galaxies concerning their own personal makeup and mental functions, however. What little was available came from observers not of their race. There were indications they were a highly unemotional race, not given to any artistic expression. Hockley found this surprising. The general rule was for highly intellectual attainments to be accompanied by equally high artistic expression. But all of this provided no data that he could relate to his present problem, no basis for argument beyond what he already had. He returned the films to their silver cans and set staring at the neat pile of them on the desk. Then he smiled at his own obtuseness. Data on the Ryke plan had been tried on plenty of other worlds. Data on them should not be so scarce. He returned the cans and punched out a new request on the call panel. Twenty seconds later he was pleasantly surprised by a score of new tapes in the hopper. That was enough for a full night's work. He wished he'd brought Sho waiter along to help. Then his eye caught sight of the label on the topmost can in the pile : familiar signal somewhere deep in his mind. Then he knew -- that was the home world of Waldon Thar, one of his closest friends in the year when he'd gone to school at Galactic Center for advanced study. Thar had been one of the most ever known. In bull session debate he was instantly beyond the depth of everyone else. him about the Rykes! Hockley pushed the tape cans aside and went to the phone in the workroom. He dialed for the interstellar operator. "Government prisaid. "Waldon Thar. He attended Galactic Center Research Institute twenty-three years ago. He came from the city Plar, which was his home at that time. I have no other information, except that he is probably employed as a research scientist." There was a moment's silence while the operator noted the information. "There will be some delay," she said finally. "At present the inter-galactic beams are full." "I can use top emergency priority on this," said Hockley. "Can you clear a trunk for me on that?" "Yes. One moment, please." He sat by the window for half an hour, turning down the light in the workroom so that he could see the flow of traffic at the port west of the Lab buildings. Two spaceships took off and three came in while he waited. And . then the phone rang. "I'm sorry," the operator said. "Waldon Thar is reported not on Do you wish to attempt to locate him there?" "By all means," said Hockley. "Same priority." This was better than he had hoped for. Thar could really get him the information he needed on the Rykes. Twenty minutes later the phone rang again. In the operator's first words Hockley sensed apology and knew the attempt had failed. "Our office has learned that Walden Thar is at present on tour as aide to the Ryke emissary, Liacan. We can perhaps trace -- " "No!" Hockley shouted. "That won't be necessary. I know now -- " He almost laughed aloud to himself. This was an incredible piece of good luck. Walden Thar was probably out at the space port right now -- unless one of those ships taking off had been the Ryke -- He wondered why Thar had not tried to contact him. Of course, it had been a long time, but they had been very close at the center. He dialed the field control tower. "I want to know if the ship from said. "They were scheduled for six hours ago, but mechanical difficulty has delayed them. Present estimated take-off is #." Almost two hours to go, Hockley thought. That should be time enough. "Please put me in communication with one of the aides aboard named Waldon Thar. This is Sherman Hockley of Scientific Services. Priority request." "I'll try, sir." The tower operator manifested a sudden increase of respect. "One moment, please." Hockley heard the buzz and switch clicks of communication circuits reaching for the ship. Then, in a moment, he heard the somewhat irritated but familiar voice of his old friend. "Waldon Thar speaking," the voice said. "Who wishes to talk?" "Listen, you old son of a cyclotron's maiden aunt!" said Hockley. "Who would want to talk on Sol when you landed? I just found out you were here." "Sherm Hockley, of course," the voice said with distant, unperturbed tones. "This is indeed a surprise and a pleasure. To be honest, I had forgotten Earth was your home planet." "I'll try to think of something to jog your memory next time. How about getting together?" "Well -- I don't have very long," said Thar hesitantly. "If you could come over for a few minutes -- " Hockley had the jolting feeling that Waldon Thar would just as soon pass up the opportunity for their meeting. Some of the enthusiasm went out of his voice. "There's a good all-night interplanetary eatery and bar on the field there. I'll be along in fifteen minutes." "Fine' said Thar, "but please try not to be late." On the way to the field, Hockley wondered about the change that had apparently taken place in Thar. Of course, he had changed, too -- perhaps for much the worse. But Thar sounded like a stuffed shirt now, and that is the last thing Hockley would have expected. In school, Thar had been the most irreverent of the whole class of irreverents, denouncing in ecstasy the established and unproven lore, riding the professors of unsubstantiated hypotheses. Now -- well, he didn't sound like the Thar Hockley knew. He took a table and sat down just as Thar entered the dining room. The latter's broad smile momentarily removed Hockley's doubts. The smile hadn't changed. And there was the same expression of devilish disregard for the established order. The same warm friendliness. It baffled Hockley to understand how Thar could have failed to remember Earth was his home. Thar mentioned it as he came up and took Hockley's hand. "I'm terribly sorry," he said. "It was stupid to forget that Earth meant Sherman Hockley." "I know how it is. I should have written. I guess I'm the one who owes a letter." "No, I think not," said Thar. They sat on opposite sides of a small table near a window and ordered drinks. On the field they could see the vast, shadowy outline of the Ryke vessel. Thar was of a race genetically close to the Rykes. He lacked the feathery covering, but this was replaced by a layer of thin scales, which had a tendency to stand on edge when he was excited. He also wore a breathing piece, and carried the small shoulder tank with a faint air of superiority. Hockley watched him with a growing sense of loss. The first impression had been more nearly correct. Thar hadn't wanted to meet him. "It's been a long time," said Hockley lamely. "I guess there isn't much we did back there that means anything now." "You shouldn't say that," said Thar as if recognizing he had been too remote. "Every hour of our acquaintance meant a great deal to me. I'll never forgive myself for forgetting -- but tell me how you learned I was aboard the Ryke ship." "The Rykes have made us an offer. I wanted to find out the effects on worlds that had accepted. I started looking." "I'm so very glad you did, Sherm. You want me to confirm, of course, the advisability of accepting the offer Liacan has made." "Confirm -- or deny it," said Hockley. Thar spread his clawlike hands. "Deny it? The most glorious opportunity a planet could possibly have?" Something in Thar's voice gave Hockley a sudden chill. "How has it worked on your own world?" a slum to a world of mansions. Our economic problems have been solved. Health and long life are routine. There is nothing we want that we cannot have for the asking . # "But are you satisfied with it? Is there nothing which you had to give up that you would like returned ? # Waldon Thar threw back his head and laughed in high pitched tones. "I might have known that would be the question you would ask! Forgive me, friend Sherman, but I had almost forgotten how unventuresome you are. "Your question is ridiculous. Why should we wish to go back to our economic inequalities, poverty and distress, our ignorant plodding research in science? You can answer your own question . # They were silent for a moment. Hockley thought his friend would have gladly terminated their visit right there and returned to his ship. To forestall this, he leaned across the table and asked, "Your science -- what has become of that ? # "Our science! We never had any. We were ignorant children playing with mud and rocks. We knew nothing. We had nothing. Until the Rykes offered to educate us . # "Surely you don't believe that , # said Hockley quietly. "The problem you worked on at the Institute -- gravity at micro-cosmic levels. That was not a childish thing . # Thar laughed shortly and bitterly. "What disillusionment you have coming, friend Sherman! If you only knew how truly childish it was. Wait until you learn from the Rykes the true conception of gravity, its nature and the part it plays in the structure of matter . # Hockley felt a sick tightening within him. This was not the Waldon Thar, the wild demon who thrust aside all authority and rumor in his own headlong search for knowledge. It couldn't be Thar who was sitting passively by, being told what the nature of the Universe is. "Your scientists -- ? # Hockley persisted. "What has become of all your researchers ? # "The answer is the same , # said Thar. "We had no science. We had no scientists. Those who once went by that name have become for the first time honest students knowing the pleasure of studying at the feet of masters . # "You have set up laboratories in which your researches are supervised by the Rykes ? # "Laboratories? We have no need of laboratories. We have workshops and study rooms where we try to absorb that which the Rykes discovered long ago. Maybe at some future time we will come to a point where we can reach into the frontier of knowledge with our own minds, but this does not seem likely now . # "So you have given up all original research of your own ? # "How could we do otherwise? The Rykes have all the answers to any question we have intelligence enough to ask. Follow them, Sherman. It is no disgrace to be led by such as the Ryke teachers . # "Don't you ever long , # said Hockley, "to take just one short step on your own two feet ? # "Why crawl when you can go by trans-light carrier?" Thar sipped the last of his drink and glanced toward the wall clock. "I must go. I can understand the direction of your questions and your thinking. You hesitate because you might lose the chance to play in the mud and count the pretty pebbles in the sand. Put away childish things. You will never miss them!" They shook hands, and a moment later Hockley said goodbye to Thar at the entrance to the field. "I know Earth will accept," said Thar. "And you and I should not have lost contact -- but we'll make up for it." Watching him move toward the dark hulk of the ship, Hockley wondered if Thar actually believed that. In less than an hour they had exhausted all they had to say after twenty years. Hockley had the information he needed about the Ryke plan, but he wished he could have kept his old memories of his student friend. Thar was drunk on the heady stuff being peddled by the Rykes, and if what he said were true, it was strong enough to intoxicate a whole planet. His blood grew cold at the thought. This was more than a fight for the National Laboratories. It was a struggle to keep all Mankind from becoming what Thar had become. If he could have put Thar on exhibition in the meeting tomorrow, and shown what he was once like, he would have made his point. But Thar, before and after, was not available for exhibit. He had to find another way to show his colleagues and the Senators what the Rykes would make of them. He glanced at his watch. They wouldn't like being wakened at this hour, but neither would the scientists put up much resistance to his request for support in Markham's meeting. He went back to the bar and called each of his colleages who had been in the meeting that day. the assembly convened at ten that morning. He rose slowly from his seat near Markham and glanced over the somewhat puzzled expressions of the scientists. "I don't know that I can speak for the entire group of scientists present," he said. "We met yesterday and found some differences of opinion concerning this offer. While it is true there is overwhelming sentiment supporting it, certain questions remain, which we feel require additional data in order to be answered properly. "While we recognize that official acceptance can be given to the Rykes with no approval whatever from the scientists, it seems only fair that we should have every opportunity to make what we consider a proper study and to express our opinions in the matter. "To the non-scientist -- and perhaps to many of my colleages -- it may seem inconceivable that there could be any questions whatever. But we wonder about the position of students of future generations, we wonder about the details of administration of the program, we wonder about the total effects of the program upon our society as a whole. We wish to ask permission to make further study of the matter in an effort to answer these questions and many others. We request permission to go as a committee to study of what the Rykes propose to do, how they will teach us, and how they will dispense the information they so generously offer. "I ask that you consider this most seriously, and make an official request of the Rykes to grant us such opportunity for study, that you provide the necessary appropriations for the trip. I consider it most urgent that this be done at once." There was a stir of concern and disapproval from Congressional members as Hockley sat down. Senators leaned to speak in whispers to their neighbors, but Hockley observed the scientists remained quiet and impassive. He believed he had sold them in his telephone calls during the early morning. They liked the idea of obtaining additional data. Besides, most of them themselves. Senator Markham finally stood up, obviously disturbed by Hockley's abrupt proposal. "It has seemed to us members of the Committee that there could hardly be any need for more data than is already available to us. The remarkable effects of Ryke science on other backward worlds is common knowledge. "On the other hand we recognize the qualifications of you gentlemen which make your request appear justified. We will have to discuss this at length, but at the moment I believe I can say I am in sympathy with your request and can encourage my Committee to give it serious consideration." A great deal more was said on that and subsequent days. News of the Ryke offer was not given to the public, but landing of the Ryke ship could not be hidden. It became known that Liacan carried his offer to other worlds and speculation was made that he offered it to Earth also. Angry questions were raised as to why the purpose of the visit was not clarified, but government silence was maintained while Hockley's request was considered. It encountered bitter debate in the closed sessions, but permission was finally given for a junket of ninety scientists and ten senators to This could not be hidden, so the facts were modified and a story given out that the party was going to request participation in the Ryke program being offered other worlds, that Liacan's visit had not been conclusive. In the days preceding the takeoff Hockley felt a sense of destiny weighing heavily upon him. He read every word of the stream of opinion that flowed through the press. Every commentator and columnist seemed called upon to make his own specific analysis of the possibilities of the opinions were almost uniform that it would be an approach to Utopia to have the Rykes take over. Hockley was sickened by this mass conversion to the siren call of the Rykes. It was a tremendous relief when the day finally came and the huge transport ship lifted solemnly into space. Most of the group were in the ship's lounge watching the television port as the Earth drifted away beneath them. Senator Markham seemed nervous and almost frightened, Hockley thought, as if something intangible had escaped him. "I hope we're not wasting our time," he said. "Not that I don't understand your position," he added hastily to cover the show of antagonism he sensed creeping into his voice. "We appreciate your support," said Hockley, "and we'll do our best to see the time of the investigation is not wasted." But afterwards, when the two of them were alone by the screen, Silvers spoke to Hockley soberly. The mathematician had lost some of the wild exuberance he'd had at first. It had been replaced by a deep, intense conviction that nothing must stand in the way of Earth's alliance with the Rykes. "We all understand why you wanted us to come," he said. "We know you believe this delay will cool our enthusiasm. It's only fair to make clear that it won't. How you intend to change us by taking us to the home of the Rykes has got us all baffled. The reverse will be true, I am very sure. We intend to make it clear to the Rykes that we accept their offer. I hope you have no plan to make a declaration to the contrary." Hockley kept his eyes on the screen, watching the green sphere of Earth. "I have no intention of making any statement of any kind. I was perfectly honest when I said our understanding of the Rykes would profit by this visit. You all agreed. I meant nothing more nor less than what I said. I hope no one in the group thinks otherwise." "We don't know," said Silvers. "It's just that you've got us wondering how you expect to change our views." "I have not said that is my intention." "Can you say it is not?" "No, I cannot say that. But the question is incomplete. My whole intention is to discover as fully as possible what will be the result of alliance with the Rykes. If you should conclude that it will be unfavorable that will be the result of your own direct observations and computations, not of my arguments." "You may be sure that is one thing that will not occur," said Silvers. a transfer point where they could change to a commercial vessel using Ryke principles. In the following week they covered a distance several thousand times that which they had already come. And then A few of them had visited the planet previously, on vacation trips or routine study expeditions, but most of them were seeing it for the first time. While well out into space the group began crowding the vision screens which brought into range the streets and buildings of the cities. They could see the people walking and riding there. Hockley caught his breath at the sight, and doubts overwhelmed him, telling him he was an utter and complete fool. The city upon which he looked was a jewel of perfection. Buildings were not indiscriminate masses of masonry and metal and plastic heaped up without regard to the total effect. Rather, the city was a unit created with an eye to esthetic perfection. Silvers stood beside Hockley. "We've got a chance to make Earth look that way' said the mathematician. "There's only one thing missing," said Hockley. "The price tag. We still need to know what it's going to cost." Upon landing, the Earthmen were greeted by a covey of their bird-like hosts who scurried about, introducing themselves in their high whistling voices. In busses, they were moved half way across the city to a building which stood beside an enormous park area. It was obviously a building designed for the reception of just such delegations as this one, giving Hockley evidence that perhaps his idea was not so original after all. It was a relief to get inside after their brief trip across the city. Gravity, temperature, and air pressure and composition duplicated those of Earth inside, and conditions could be varied to accommodate many different species. Hockley felt confident they could become accustomed to outside conditions after a few days, but it was exhausting now to be out for long. They were shown to individual quarters and given leisure to unpack and inspect their surroundings. Furniture had been adjusted to their size and needs. The only oversight Hockley could find was a faint odor of chlorine lingering in the closets. He wondered who the last occupant of the room had been. After a noon meal, served with foods of astonishingly close approximation to their native fare, the group was offered a prelude to the general instruction and indoctrination which would begin the following day. This was in the form of a guided tour through the science museum which, Hockley gathered, was a modernized Ryke parallel to the venerable Smithsonian back home. The tour was entirely optional, as far as the planned program of the Rykes was concerned, but none of the Earthmen turned it down. Hockley tried to concentrate heavily on the memory of Waldon Thar and keep the image of his friend always before him as he moved through the city and inspected the works of the Rykes. He found it helped suppress the awe and adulation which he had an impulse to share with his companions. It was possible even, he found, to adopt a kind of truculent cynicism toward the approach the Rykes were making. The visit to the science museum could be an attempt to bowl them over with an eonlong vista of Ryke superiority in the sciences. At least that was most certainly the effect on them. Hockley cursed his own feeling of ignorance and inferiority as the guide led them quietly past the works of the masters, offering but little comment, letting them see for themselves the obvious relationships. In the massive display showing developments of spaceflight, the atomic vessels, not much different from Earthmen's best efforts, were far down the line, very near to the earliest attempts of the Rykes to rocket their way into space. Beyond that level was an incredible series of developments incomprehensible to most of the Earthmen. And to all their questions the guide offered the monotonous reply: "That will be explained to you later. We only wish to give you an overall picture of our culture at the present time . # But this was not enough for one of the astronomers, named Moore, who moved ahead of Hockley in the crowd. Hockley saw the back of Moore's neck growing redder by the minute as the guide's evasive answer was repeated. Finally, Moore forced a discussion regarding the merits of some systems of comparing the brightness of stars, which the guide briefly showed them. The guide, in great annoyance, burst out with a stream of explanation that completely flattened any opinions Moore might have had. But at the same time the astronomer grinned amiably at the Ryke. "That ought to settle that," he said. "I'll bet it won't take a week to get our system changed back home." Moore's success loosened the restraint of the others and they beseiged the guide mercilessly then with opinions, questions, comparisons -- and even mild disapprovals. The guide's exasperation was obvious -- and pleasant -- to Hockley, who remained a bystander. It was frightening to Markham and some of the other senators who were unable to take part in the discussion. But most of the scientists failed to notice it in their eagerness to learn. After dinner that night they gathered in the lounge and study of their quarters. Markham stood beside Hockley as they partook cautiously of the cocktails which the Rykes had attempted to duplicate for them. The Senator's awe had returned to overshadow any concern he felt during the events of the afternoon. "A wonderful day!" he said. "Even though this visit delays completion of our arrangements with the Rykes those of us here will be grateful forever that you proposed it. Nothing could have so impressed us all with the desirability of accepting the Ryke's tutelage. It was a stroke of genius, Dr. Hockley. And for a time I thought you were actually opposed to the Rykes!" He sipped his drink while Hockley said nothing. Then his brow furrowed a bit. "But I wonder why our guide cut short our tour this afternoon. If I recall correctly he said at the beginning there was a great deal more to see than he actually showed us." Hockley smiled and sipped politely at his drink before he set it down and faced the Senator. "I was wondering if anyone else noticed that," he said. except for the fact that occasional whiffs of chlorine seemed to drift from various corners of the room even though he turned the air-conditioning system on full blast. In the morning there began a series of specialized lectures which had been prepared in accordance with the Earthmen's request to acquaint them with what they would be getting upon acceptance of the Ryke offer. It was obviously no new experience for the Rykes. The lectures were well prepared and anticipated many questions. The only thing new about it, Hockley thought, was the delivery in the language of the Earthmen. Otherwise, he felt this was something prepared a long time ago and given a thousand times or more. They were divided into smaller groups according to their specialties, electronic men going one way, astronomers and mathematical physicists another, chemists and general physicists in still another direction. Hockley, Sho waiter and the senators were considered more or less free floating members of the delegation with the privilege of visiting with one group or another according to their pleasure. Hockley chose to spend the first day with the chemists, since that was his own first love. Dr. Showalter and Senator Markham came along with him. As much as he tried he found it virtually impossible not to sit with the same open-mouthed wonder that his colleagues exhibited. The swift, free-flowing exposition of the Ryke lecturer led them immediately beyond their own realms, but so carefully did he lead them that it seemed that they must have come this way before, and forgotten it. Hockley felt half angry with himself. He felt he had allowed himself to be hypnotized by the skill of the Ryke, and wondered despairingly if there were any chance at all of combating their approach. He saw nothing to indicate it in the experience of that day or the ones immediately following. But he retained hope that there was much significance in the action of the guide who had cut short their visit to the museum. In the evenings, in the study lofinge of the dormitory, they held interminable bull sessions exchanging and digesting what they had been shown during the day. It was at the end of the third day that Hockley thought he could detect a subtle change in the group. He had some difficulty analyzing it at first. It seemed to be a growing aliveness, a sort of recovery. And then he recognized that the initial stunned reaction to the magnificence of the Rykes was passing off. They had been shocked by the impact of the Rykes, almost as if they had been struck a blow on the head. Temporarily, they had shelved all their own analytical and critical facilities and yielded to the Rykes without question. Now they were beginning to recover, springing back to a condition considerably nearer normal. Hockley felt a surge of encouragement as he detected a more sharply critical evaluation in the conversations that buzzed around him. The enthusiasm was more measured. It was the following evening, however, that witnessed the first event of pronounced shifting of anyone's attitude. They had finished dinner and were gathering in the lounge, sparring around, setting up groups for the bull sessions that would go until long after midnight. Most of them had already settled down and were talking part in conversations or were listening quietly when they were suddenly aware of a change in the atmosphere of the room. For a moment there was a general turning of heads to locate the source of the disturbance. Hockley knew he could never describe just what made him look around, but he was abruptly conscious that Dr. Silvers was walking into the lounge and looking slowly about at those gathered there. Something in his presence was like the sudden appearance of a thundercloud, his face seemed to reflect the dark turbulence of a summer storm. He said nothing, however, to anyone but strode over and sat beside Hockley, who was alone at the moment smoking the next to last of his Earthside cigars. Hockley felt the smouldering turmoil inside the mathematician. He extended his final cigar. Silvers brushed it away. "The last one," said Hockley mildly. "In spite of all their abilities the Ryke imitations are somewhat less than natural." Silvers turned slowly to face Hockley. "I presented them with the Legrandian Equations today," he said. "I expected to get a straightforward answer to a perfectly legitimate scientific question. That is what we were led to expect, was it not?" Hockley nodded. "That's my impression. Did you get something less than a straightforward answer?" The mathematician exhaled noisily. "The Legrandian Equations will lead to a geometry as revolutionary as Riemann's was in his day. But I was told by the Rykes that I 'should dismiss it from all further consideration. It does not lead to any profitable mathematical development.' " Hockley felt that his heart most certainly skipped a beat, but he managed to keep his voice steady, and sympathetic. "That's too bad. I know what high hopes you had. I suppose you will give up work on the Equations now?" "I will not!" Silvers exclaimed loudly. Nearby groups who had returned hesitantly to their own conversations now stared at him again. But abruptly he changed his tone and looked almost pleadingly at Hockley. "I don't understand it. Why should they say such a thing? It appears to be one of the most profitable avenues of exploration I have encountered in my whole career. And the Rykes brush it aside!" "What did you say when they told you to give it up?" "I said I wanted to know where the development would lead. I said it had been indicated that we could have an answer to any scientific problem within the range of their abilities, and certainly this is, from what I've seen. "The instructor replied that I'd been given an answer to my question, that 'the first lesson you must learn if you wish to acquire our pace in science is to recognize that we have been along the path ahead of you. We know which are the possibilities that are worthwhile to de velop. We have gained our speed by learning to bypass every avenue but the main one, and not get lost in tempting side roads. # "He said that we've got to learn to trust them and take their word as to which is the correct and profitable field of research, that 'we will show you where to go, as we agreed cept our leadership in this respect our agreement means nothing.' Wouldn't that be a magnificent way to make scientific progress!" The mathematician shifted in his chair as if trying to control an internal fury that would not be capped. He held out his hand abruptly. "I'll take that cigar after all, if you don't mind, Hockley." With savage energy he chewed the end and ignited the cigar, then blew a mammoth cloud of smoke ceilingward. "I think the trouble must be in our lecturer," he said. "He's crazy. He couldn't possibly represent the conventional attitude of the Rykes. They promised to give answers to our problems -- and this is the kind of nonsense I get. I'm going to see somebody higher up and find out why we can't have a lecturer who knows what he's talking about. Or maybe you or Markham would rather take it up -- through official channels, as it were?" "The Ryke was correct," said Hockley. "He did give you an answer." "He could answer all our questions that way!" "You're perfectly right," said Hockley soberly. "He could do exactly that." "They won't of course," said Silvers, defensively. "Even if this particular character isn't just playing the screwball, my question is just a special case. It's just one particular thing they consider to be valueless. Perhaps in the end I'll find they're right -- but I'm going to develop a solution to these Equations if it takes the rest of my life! "After all, they admit they have no solution, that they have not bothered to go down this particular side path, as they put it. If we don't go down it how can we ever know whether it's worthwhile or not? How can the Rykes know what they may have missed by not doing so?" "I can't answer that," said Hockley. "For us or for them, I know of no other way to predict the outcome of a specific line of research except to carry it through and find out what lies at the end of the road." after he finally went to bed that night. Silvers had presented him with the break he had been expecting and hoping for. The first chink in the armor of sanctity surrounding the Rykes. Now he wondered what would follow, if this would build up to the impassable barrier he wanted, or if it would merely remain a sore obstacle in their way but eventually be bypassed and forgotten. He did not believe it would be the only incident of its kind. There would be others as the Earthmen's stunned, blind acceptance gave way completely to sound, critical evalu ation. And in any case there was one delegate who would never be the same again. No matter how he eventually rationalized it Dr. Forman K. Silvers would never feel quite the same about the Rykes as he did before they rejected his favorite piece of research. Hockley arose early, eager but cautious, his senses open for further evidence of disaffection springing up. He joined the group of chemists once more for the morning lecture. The spirit of the group was markedly higher than when he first met with them. They had been inspired by what the Rykes had shown them, but in addition their own sense of judgment had been brought out of suspension. The Ryke lecturer began inscribing on the board an enormous organic formula, using conventions of Earth chemistry for the benefit of his audience. He explained at some length a number of transformations which it was possible to make in the compound by means of high intensity fields. Almost at once, one of the younger chemists named Dr. Carmen, was on his feet exclaiming excitedly that one of the transformation compounds was a chemical on which he had conducted an extensive research. He had produced enough to know that it had a multitude of intriguing properties, and now he was exuberant at the revelation of a method of producing it in quantity and also further transforming it. At his sudden enthusiasm the lecturer's face took on what they had come to recognize as a very dour look. "That series of transformations has no interest for us," he said. "I merely indicated its existence to show one of the possibilities which should be avoided. Over here you see the direction in which we wish to go." "But you never saw anything with properties like that!" Carmen protested. "It goes through an incredible series of at least three crystalline-liquid phase changes with an increase in pressure alone. But with proper control of heat it can be kept in the crystalline phase regardless of pressure. It is closely related to a drug series with anesthetic properties, and is almost sure to be valuable in -- " The Ryke lecturer cut him off sharply. "I have explained," he said, "the direction of transformation in which we are interested. Your concern is not with anything beyond the boundaries which our study has proven to be the direct path of research and study." "Then I should abandon research on this series of chemicals?" Carmen asked with a show of outward meekness. The Ryke nodded with pleasure at Carmen's submissiveness. "That is it precisely. We have been over this ground long ago. We know where the areas of profitable study lie. You will be told what to observe and what to ignore. How could you ever hope to make progress if you stopped to examine every alternate probability and possibility that appeared to you?" He shook his head vigorously and his plume vibrated with emotion. "You must have a plan," he continued. "A goal. Study of the Universe cannot proceed in any random, erratic fashion. You must know what you want and then find out where to look for it." Carmen sat down slowly. Hockley was sure the Ryke did not notice the tense bulge of the chemist's jaw muscles. Perhaps he would not have understood the significance if he had noticed. Hockley was a trifle late in getting to the dining room at lunch time that day. By the time he did so the place was like a beehive. He was almost repelled by the furor of conversation circulating in the room as he entered. He passed through slowly, searching for a table of his own. He paused a moment behind Dr. Carmen, who was declaiming in no mild terms his opinions of a system that would pre-select those areas of research which were to be entered and those which were not. He smiled a little as he caught the eye of one of the dozen chemists seated at the table, listening. Moving on, he observed that Silvers had also cornered a half dozen or so of his colleagues in his own field and was in earnest conversation with them -- in a considerably more restrained manner, however, than he had used the previous evening with Hockley, or than Carmen was using at the present time. The entire room was abuzz with similar groups. The senators had tried to mingle with the others in past days, always with more or less lack of success because they found themselves out of the conversation almost completely. Today they had no luck whatever. They were seated together at a couple of tables in a corner. None of them seemed to be paying attention to the food before them, but were glancing about, half-apprehensively, at their fellow diners -- who were also paying no attention to food. Hockley caught sight of his political colleagues and sensed their dismay. The field of disquietude seemed almost tangible in the air. The senators seemed half frightened by what they felt but could not understand. Showalter's wild waving at the far corner of the room finally caught Hockley's eye and he moved toward the small table which the assistant had reserved for them. Sho waiter was upset, too, by the atmosphere within the room. "What the devil is up?" he said. "Seems like everybody's on edge this morning. I never saw a bunch of guys so touchy. You'd think they woke up with snakes in their beds." "Didn't you know?" said Hockley. "Haven't you been to any of the lectures this morning?" "No. A couple of the senators were getting bored with all the scientific doings so I thought maybe I should try to entertain them. We took in what passes for such here, but it wasn't much better than the lectures as a show. Tell me what's up. Briefly, Hockley described Silvers' upset of the day before and Carmen's experience that morning. Showalter let his glance rove over his fellow Earthmen, trying to catch snatches of the buzzing conversation at nearby tables. "You think that's the kind of thing that's got them all going this morning?" he said. Hockley nodded. "I caught enough of it passing through to know that's what it is. I gather that every group has run into the same kind of thing by now, the fencing off of broad areas where we have already tried to do research. "After the first cloud of awe wore off, the first thing everyone wanted was an answer to his own pet line of research. Nine times out of ten it was something the Rykes told them to chuck down the drain. That advice doesn't sit so well -- as you can plainly see." Showalter drew back his gaze and stared for a long time at Hockley. "You knew this would happen. That's why you brought us here -- " "I had hopes of it. I was reasonably sure this was the way the Rykes operated." Showalter remained thoughtful for a long time before he spoke again. "You've won your point, I suppose, as far as this group goes, but you can't hope to convince all of Earth by this. The Rykes will hold their offer open, and others will accept it on behalf of Earth. "And what if it's we who are wrong, in the end? How can you be sure that this isn't the way the Rykes have made their tremendous speed -- by not going down all the blind alleys that we rattle around in." "I'm sure it is the way they have attained such speed of advancement." "Then maybe we ought to go along, regardless of our own desires. Maybe we never did know how to do research!" Hockley smiled across the table at his assistant. "You believe that, of course." "I'm just talking," said Showalter irritably. "The thing gets more loopy every day. If you think you understand the Rykes I wish you would give out with what the score is. By the looks of most of these guys I would say they are getting ready to throttle the next Ryke they see instead of knuckle under to him." "I hope you're right," said Hockley fervently. "I certainly hope you're right." ing evidence that he was. Hockley passed up the afternoon lecture period and spent the time in the lounge doing some thinking of his own. He knew he couldn't push the group. Above all, he mustn't give way to any temptation to push them or say, "I told you so." Their present frustration was so deep that their antagonism could be turned almost indiscriminately in any direction, and he would be offering himself as a ready target if he were not careful. On the other hand he had to be ready to take advantage of their disaffection and throw them a decisive challenge when they were ready for it. That might be tonight, or it might be another week. He wished for a sure way of knowing. As things turned out, however, the necessity of choosing the time was taken from him. After dinner that night, when the group began to drift into the lounge, Silvers and Carmen and three of the other men came over to where Hockley sat. Silvers fumbled with the buttons of his coat as if preparing to make an address: "We'd like to request' he said, "that is -- we think we ought to get together. We'd like you to call a meeting, Hockley. Some of us have a few things we'd like to talk over." Hockley nodded, his face impassive. "The matter I mentioned to you the other night," said Silvers. "It's been happening to all the men. We think we ought to talk about it." "Fine," said Hockley. "I've been thinking it would perhaps be a good idea. Pass the word around and let's get some chairs. We can convene in ten minutes." The others nodded somberly and moved away with all the enthusiasm of preparing for a funeral, And maybe that's what it would be, Hockley thought -- somebody's funeral. He hoped it would be the Rykes. once, as if they had been expecting the call. In little more than five minutes it seemed that every member of the Earth delegation had assembled, leaving time to spare. The senators still wore their looks of puzzlement and half-frightened anxiety, which had intensified if anything. There was no puzzlement on the faces of the scientists, however, only a set and determined expression that Hockley hardly dared interpret as meaning they had made up their minds. He had to have their verbal confirmation. Informally, he thrust his hands in his pockets and sauntered to the front of the group. "I have been asked to call a meeting," he said, "by certain members of the group who have something on their minds. They seem to feel we'd all be interested in what is troubling them. Since I have nothing in particular to say I'm simply going to turn the floor over to those of you who have. Dr. Silvers first approached me to call this discussion, so I shall ask him to lead off. Will you come to the front, Dr. Silvers?" The mathematician rose as if wishing someone else would do the talking. He stood at one side of the group, halfway to the rear. "I can do all right from here," he said After a pause, as if coming to a momentous decision, he plunged into his complaint. "It appears that nearly all of us have encountered an aspect of the Ryke culture and character which was not anticipated when we first received their offer." Briefly, he related the details of the Ryke rejection of his research on the Legrandian Equations. "We were told we were going to have all our questions answered, that the Ryke's science included all we could anticipate or hope to accomplish in the next few millenia. I swallowed that. We all did. It appears we were slightly in error. It begins to appear as if we are not going to find the intellectual paradise we anticipated." He smiled wryly. "I'm sure none of you is more ready than I to admit he has been a fool. It appears that paradise, so-called, consists merely of a few selected gems which the Rykes consider particularly valuable, while the rest of the field goes untouched. "I want to offer public apologies to Dr. Hockley, who saw and understood the situation as it actually existed, while the rest of us had our # heads in the clouds. Exactly how he knew, I'm not sure, but he did, and possible to convince us that what he knew was correct. "I suggest we do our packing tonight, gentlemen. Let us return at once to our laboratories and spend the rest of our lives in some degree of atonement for being such fools as to fall for the line the Rykes tried to sell us . # Hockley's eyes were on the senators. At first there were white faces filled with incredulity as the mathematician proceeded. Then slowly this changed to sheer horror. When Silvers finished, there was immediate bedlam. There was a clamor of voices from the scientists, most of whom seemed to be trying to affirm Silvers' position. This was offset by explosions of rage from the senatorial members of the group. Hockley let it go, not even raising his hands for order until finally the racket died of its own accord as the eyes of the delegates came to rest upon him. And then, before he could speak, Markham was on his feet. "This is absolutely moral treachery," he thundered. "I have never heard a more vicious revocation of a pledged word than I have heard this evening. "You men are not alone concerned in this matter. For all practical purposes you are not concerned at all! And yet to take it upon yourselves to pass judgment in a matter that is the affair of the entire population of Earth -- out of nothing more than sheer spite because the Rykes refuse recognition of your own childish projects! I have never heard a more incredible and infantile performance than you supposedly mature gentlemen of science are expressing this evening." He glared defiantly at Hockley, who was again the center of attention moving carelessly to the center of the stage. "Anybody want to try to answer the Senator?" he asked casually. Instantly, a score of men were on their feet, speaking simultaneously. They stopped abruptly, looking deferentially to their neighbors and at Hockley, inviting him to choose one of them to be spokesman. "Maybe I ought to answer him myself," said Hockley, "since I predicted that this would occur, and that we ought to make a trial run before turning our collective gray matter over to the Rykes." A chorus of approval and nodding heads gave him the go ahead. "The Senator is quite right in saying that we few are not alone in our concern in this matter," he said. "But the Senator intends to imply a major difference between us scientists and the rest of mankind. This is his error. "Every member of Mankind who is concerned about the Universe in which he lives, is a scientist. You need to understand what a scientist is -- and you can say no more than that he is a human being trying to solve the problem of understanding his Universe, immediate or remote. He is concerned about the inanimate worlds, his own personality, his fellow men -- and the interweaving relationships among all these factors. We professional scientists are no strange species, alien to our race. Our only difference is perhaps that we undertake more problems than does the average of our fellow men, and of a more complex kind. That is all. "The essence of our science is a relentless personal yearning to know and understand the Universe. And in that, the scientist must not be forbidden to ask whatever question occurs to him. The moment we put any restraint upon our fields of inquiry, or set bounds to the realms of our mental aspirations, our science ceases to exist and becomes a mere opportunist technology." Markham stood up, his face red with exasperation and rage. "No one is trying to limit you! Why is that so unfathomable to your minds? You are being offered a boundless expanse, and you continue to make inane complaints of limitations. The Rykes have been over all the territory you insist on exploring. They can tell you the number of pretty pebbles and empty shells that lie there. You are like children insistent upon exploring every shadowy corner and peering behind every useless bush on a walk through the forest. "Such is to be expected of a child, but not of an adult, who is capable of taking the word of one who has been there before!" "There are two things wrong with your argument," said Hockley. "First of all, there is no essential difference between the learning of a child who must indeed explore the dark corners and strange growths by which he passes -- there is no difference between this and the probing of the scientist, who must explore the Universe with his own senses and with his own instruments, without taking another's word that there is nothing there worth seeing. "Secondly, the Rykes themselves are badly in error in asserting that they have been along the way ahead of us. They have not. In all their fields of science they have limited themselves badly to one narrow field of probability. They have taken a narrow path stretching between magnificent vistas on either side of them, and have deliberately ignored all that was beyond the path and on the inviting side trails." "Is there anything wrong with that?" demanded Markham. "If you undertake a journey you don't weave in and out of every possible path that leads in every direction opposed to your destination. You take the direct route. Or at least ordinary people do." "Scientists do, too," said Hockley, "when they take a journey. Professional science is not a journey, however. It's an exploration. "There is a great deal wrong with what the Rykes have done. They have assumed, and would have us likewise assume, that there is a certain very specific future toward which we are all moving. This future is built out of the discoveries they have made about the Universe. It is made of the system of mathematics they have developed, which exclude Dr, Silvers' cherished Legrandian Equations. It excludes the world in which exist Dr. Carmen's series of unique compounds. "The Rykes have built a wonderful, workable world of serenity, beauty, scientific consistency, and economic adjustment. They have eliminated enormous amounts of chaos which Earthmen continue to suffer. "But we do not want what the Rykes have obtained -- if we have to pay their price for it." "Then you are complete fools," said Markham. "Fortunately, you cannot and will not speak for all of Earth." Hockley paced back and forth a half dozen steps, his eyes on the floor. "I think we do -- and can -- speak for all our people," he said. "Remember, I said that all men are scientists in the final analysis. I am very certain that no Earthman who truly understood the situation would want to face the future which the Rykes hold out to us." "And why not?" demanded Markham. "Because there are too many possible futures. We refuse to march down a single narrow trail to the golden future. That's what the Rykes would have us do. But they are wrong. It would be like taking a trip through a galaxy at speeds faster than light -- and claiming to have seen the galaxy. What the Rykes have obtained is genuine and good, but what they have not obtained is perhaps far better and of greater worth." "How can you know such an absurd thing?" "We can't -- not for sure," said Hockley. "Not until we go there and see for ourselves, step by step. But we aren't going to be confined to the Rykes' narrow trail. We are going on a broad path to take in as many byways as we can possibly find. We'll explore every probability we come to, and look behind every bush and under every pebble. "We will move together, the simultaneously, interacting with one another, exchanging data. Most certainly, many will end up in blind alleys. Some will find data that seems the ultimate truth at one point and pure deception at another. Who can tell ahead of time which of these multiple paths we should take? Certainly not the Rykes, who have bypassed most of them ! "It doesn't matter that many paths lead to failure -- not as long as we remain in communication with each other. In the end we will find the best possible future for us. But there is no one future, only a multitude of possible futures. We must have the right to build the one that best fits our own kind." "Is that more important than achieving immediately a more peaceful, unified, and secure society?" said Markham. "Infinitely more important!" said Hockley. "It is fortunate at least, then, that you are in no position to implement these insane beliefs of yours. The Ryke program was offered to Earth, and it shall be accepted on behalf of Earth. You may be sure of a very poor hearing when you try to present these notions back home." "You jump to conclusions, Senator," said Hockley with mild confidence. "Why do you suppose I proposed this trip if I did not believe I could do something about the situation? I assure you that we did not come just to see the sights." Markham's jaw slacked and his face became white. "What do you mean? You haven't dared to try to alienate the Rykes -- " "I mean that there is a great deal we can do about the situation. Now that the sentiments of my colleagues parallel my own I'm sure they agree that we must effectively and finally spike any possibility of Earth's becoming involved in this Ryke nonsense." "You wouldn't dare! -- even if you could -- " "We can, and we dare," said Hockley. "When we return to Earth we shall have to report that the Rykes have refused to admit Earth to their program. We shall report that we made every effort to obtain an agreement with them, but it was in vain. If anyone wishes to verify the report, the Rykes themselves will say that this is quite true : they cannot possibly consider Earth as a participant. If you contend that an offer was once made, you will not find the Rykes offering much support since they will be very busily denying that we are remotely qualified."  "The Rykes are hardly ones to meekly submit to any idiotic plan of that kind." "They can't help it -- if we demonstrate that we are quite unqualified to participate." "You -- you -- " "It will not be difficult," said Hockley. "The Rykes have set up a perfect teacher-pupil situation, with all the false assumptions that go with it. There is at least one absolutely positive way to disintegrate such a situation. The testimony of several thousand years' failure of our various educational systems indicates that there are quite a variety of lesser ways also -- "Perhaps you are aware of the experiences and techniques commonly employed on Earth by white men in their efforts to educate the aborigine. The first procedure is to do away with the tribal medicine men, ignore their lore and learning. Get them to give up the magic words and their pots of foul smelling liquids, abandon their ritual dances and take up the white man's great wisdom. "We have done this time after time, only to learn decades later that the natives once knew much of anesthetics and healing drugs, and had genuine powers to communicate in ways the white man can't duplicate. "But once in a long while a group of aborigines show more spunk than the average. They refuse to give up their medicine men, their magic and their hard earned lore accumulated over generations and centuries. Instead of giving these things up they insist on the white man's learning these mysteries in preference to his nonsensical and ineffective magic. They completely frustrate the situation, and if they persist they finally destroy the white man as an educator. He is forced to conclude that the ignorant savages are unteachable. "It is an infallible technique -- and one that we shall employ. Dr. Silvers will undertake to teach his mathematical lecturer in the approaches to the Legrandian Equations. He will speculate long and noisily on the geometry which potentially lies in this mathematical system. Dr. Carmen will ellucidate at great length on the properties of the chain of chemicals he has been advised to abandon. "Each of us has at least one line of research the Rykes would have us give up. That is the very thing we shall insist on having investigated. We shall teach them these things and prove Earthmen to be an unlearned, unteachable band of aborigines who refuse to pursue the single path to glory and light, but insist on following every devious byway and searching every darkness that lies beside the path. "It ought to do the trick. I estimate it should not be more than a week before we are on our way back home, labeled by the Rykes as utterly hopeless material for their enlightenment." The senators seemed momentarily appalled and speechless, but they recovered shortly and had a considerable amount of high flown oratory to distribute on the subject. The scientists, however, were comparatively quiet, but on their faces was a subdued glee that Hockley had to admit was little short of fiendish. It was composed, he thought, of all the gloating anticipations of all the schoolboys who had ever put a thumbtack on the teacher's chair. Hockley was somewhat off in his prediction. It was actually a mere five days after the beginning of the Earthmen' s campaign that the Rykes gave them up and put them firmly aboard a vessel bound for home. The Rykes were apologetic but firm in admitting they had made a sorry mistake, that Earthmen would have to go their own hopeless way while the Rykes led the rest of the Universe toward enlightenment and glory. Hockley, Showalter, and Silvers watched the planet drop away beneath them. Hockley could not help feeling sympathetic toward the Rykes. "I wonder what will happen," he said slowly, "when they crash headlong into an impassable barrier on that beautiful, straight road of theirs. I wonder if they'll ever have enough guts to turn aside?" "I doubt it," said Showalter. "They'll probably curl up and call it a day." Silvers shook his head as if to ward off an oppressive vision. "That shouldn't be allowed to happen," he said. "They've got too much. They've achieved too much, in spite of their limitations. I wonder if there isn't some way we could help them?" The scientific investigator is not urged on by some brummagem idea of Service but a boundless almost pathological thirst to penetrate the unknown; much like a dog sniffing tremendously at an endless number of ratholes. -- H. L. Mencken Of the "real" universe we know nothing, except that there exist as many versions of it as there are perceptive minds. -- Gerald Bullett The human race, Theodore complained, was becoming as extinct as the dodo bird -- all because of the mechanoids . So he rebelled and quit his job and tried to get rid of Margaret... Rice said, peering from the tinted windows as the car skimmed over the warm summer streets of the city. The vehicle slowed, took the long curve with fluid grace, and whispered to a stop. A silver door-panel sighed back and Ted Rice stepped into the heat of morning. His suitconditioner immediately circulated an inner breath of cool air to balance the rise in temperature. "I won't need you for the rest of the day, # ' he told the car. 'Til be walking home." "May I have your location number sir, in case a member of the family should wish to contact you?" "No, dammit, you may not!" This was Free-Day. He needn't tell the car anything. "Go home." "Very well, sir." The machine slid obediently from the curb. Rice watched it glitter briefly, like a lake trout in the moving wash of morning traffic, and disappear. On Free-Days he told the car what to do. No pre-determined destinations. No pre-determined activities. Today the bars were open, He intended getting very, very drunk. On this morning, the sixth anniversary of his wife's death, Ted Rice had made two highly important decisions. He would quit his job and he would turn Margaret in to Central Exchange. The job he hated, but it had been his life and quitting took courage. It meant beginning anew in an untried field and, at thirty-nine, that wasn't easy. Margaret he did not hate, finding it impossible to catalogue his exact emotions where she was concerned. But his final decision to turn her in was the only one possible under the circumstances. His reason for getting drunk, however, had nothing to do with his job or with Margaret. He was not, had never been, a drinking man. Intoxication was an anniversary ritual performed in memory of his late wife, Helen. He exercised extreme care in his yearly choice of drinking quarters, avoiding pretentiousness because he wanted the surroundings to reflect his own inner loneliness. Louie's Place was anything but pretentious. Ceaseless towellings had worn the bartop to a circular whiteness. The mirror behind it, in the shape of a giant passenger rocket, hung chipped and blackening at the edges. Even the wall mural, depicting Man's First Landing on the Red Planet, was dustdimmed and faded, the paint cracking, peeling gradually away. The shabby stools fronting the bar were all unoccupied. "Mornin' Mac," greeted the bartender. Rice nodded, took a corner stool, and pressed the straightwhiskey button. The drink glided into his hand and he downed it, grimacing. "Ain't seen you around before on Free-Days," the barman observed, swabbing idly at an already dry glass ring. "Just move inta th' neighborhood?" "I don't drink often," Rice said, re-pressing the buttoh. "Wanna tell me about things? You're my first this mornin'." Rice shifted his attention from his shot glass to the man behind the bar. Beefy, slack-jawed, with a broken nose and a pair of watery, protuberant eyes over which lids folded like canvas sails. The face of mourning. The professional kindred soul, salaried receiver of woes and sad lament. Rice regarded him suspiciously, twirling the shot glass between thumb and forefinger. "Well, Mac?" "Turn around," said Rice. The big man grinned broadly, his solemn face splitting as though a paper-knife had slit the skin across. "Now I know you don't drink much. Believe me, I'm the real McCoy. In my racket you have to be." "Around." Still grinning, the bartender complied. Law provided that evidence of a mechanical could not be concealed and there was no metal switch behind the man's right ear, "Like I toldja Mac -- the' McCoy." "It's been a year," Rice said, by way of apology. "I wasn't sure they hadn't replaced you fellows too." "Bars'ud go broke if they did. Who wants to tell their troubles to a bunch a' springs an' cogs?" Rice glanced at his wristwatch and thought of Margaret, standing in the living room of their modest home, a smile illumining her delicate features. She had been standing now for nine hours, thirty-seven minutes -- since he'd switched her off the previous evening in an angry display of temper. "Six years ago today my wife died in a copter crash," Rice said, meeting the barman's sad eyes. "I've put the memory of that crash away in the back of my mind and once each year I take it out and remember." He tipped the shot glass at a careful angle, holding it quite still, as though he might capture his wife's tiny image there within the dark liquid, as a fly is caught in amber. "I remember how she looked when they brought her to the house, as if her bones had suddenly run wild under the skin, the way her face looked... the face of someone I'd never met." Rice finished his fourth straight whiskey, feeling it burn down through his body, loosening inner tensions, making it easier to say what he subconsciously had to say. "That can be rough." The big man looked wonderfully, professionally, sympathetic with those mournful red-rimmed eyes, which seemed about to flood into tears. "Didja have any kids?" "A boy, Jackie. He'll be nine this Game-Day. Lot like his mother. The other children, Timmy and Susan, are mechanicals. Got them after Helen's death, when I bought Margaret." "Musta been tough on th' kid, losin' his real mother an' all." "Jackie doesn't remember much about Helen. He was only three. Fact is, I've been half a stranger to him myself. I'm on the road most of the year. Margaret's all right, I suppose, but she doesn't think the way you and I do." "How come you stuck yourself with this Margaret?" "Authorities. Had to furnish a decent home for the boy or lose him. I couldn't stay settled then, with Helen gone. She was still so much a part of things, of our house, the streets, the places we used to go... I went on the road, tried to forget. That kind of life was out of the question for a three-year old. I had no choice. Either I bought a mechanical or I lost my son. I could find no one to take Jackie. Helen's parents were dead and my own mother was in no position to raise a child. So I bought Margaret and since we'd originally planned on a brother and sister for Jackie I decided to do it up brown and take the whole kit and kaboodle. After all, I got 'em wholesale." The bar man cocked an eyebrow. "You a mech salesman?" "Until tomorrow. I'm quitting. My next job will be right here in L. A. and won't have a damn thing to do with mechanicals!" Producing his wallet Rice handed the bartender a card. "Read that." "Theodore A. Rice' the beefy man pronounced carefully "Authorized representative for World Mechanicals." "No, no. The slogan at the bot # tom. "A Dollar a Day Keeps Childbirth Away. So?" Rice leaned forward, steely-eyed. "So the damned fool who originated that ought to be roasted over a slow fire!" "Just a slogan, Mac. Everybody knows it." "Exactly! Do you have any real conception of what that slogan and others like it have done to our national birthrate?" Rice asked, a fresh whiskey in his hand. "For thirty bucks a month any woman can have a bouncing baby made to order and delivered fresh-wrapped to her door. " 'Madam I'd say, 'don't risk your figure. Don't tie yourself down and miss all the fun. Get a mechanical! No baby-sitters needed, no dirty diapers or squalling at three in the morning. No measles or mumps or tonsils out. Just a bonny little brat with a switch behind his ear. What'll it be, madam? A fat little bambino with dark eyes and and angel's smile -- or a saucy eyed little Irisher with freckles on her nose?' 'Or howz about you, fella? Tired of looking for the right girl? Want a ready-made cutie who'll be # yours? How did the old song go? -- 'I want a paper dolly I can call my own, a dolly other fellows cannot steal...' Well, here she is, chum -- a full-size babe with the old comehither look reserved especially for you. Blonde? Brunette? Redhead? You name 'er, we got 'er. Yours on easy payments.' " Rice paused, breathing heavily, his glass empty. The bartender, wise in the ways of his profession, maintained a listening silence. "Ya-know how this electronic illusion got started?" Rice demanded, tongue somewhat uncertain in his mouth, speech beginning to slur. "Well, lemme tellya. People got lonesome. An' when somebody's ole man died long comes a mech to replace him. When a woman was sterile she got her baby anyhow. When a Mr. Shy Guy wanted some female company long comes a sponge-rubber job right outa th' pinup mags. Jus' a few at first, here an' there, an' expensive as hell. But pretty soon the good ole American commercial know-how takes over and competition gets rough. Prices go down. A lotta people stop havin' babies. In nothin' flat everybody is buyin' mechanicals... you... 'n... me 'n everybody... " "Hate ta spoil yer fun, Mac, but you're really loadin' one on. I'd ease up on them straight shots." "An' you know what th' tragedy is?" Rice continued over a filled glass ignoring the other's advice -- "Th' trashdy is, we're all dyin' an' nobody cares! Pretty soon you 'n me will be in the same league with 'th goddam ole water buffalo an' the dodo bird!" The bartender extended a cautioning hand. "No foolin' Mac, if I was you... Lookout! You're gonna... Rice felt the room tip, rock crazily for no apparent reason. Faintly he heard the bartender's shout of warning, saw his face receding like a toy balloon down the length of an immense corridor which ended abruptly in a high fountaining of colored lights cheery self when Rice finally switched her on. "Morning, Ted darling." She bussed him on the cheek. "Sleep well?" "This is July tenth," he replied sullenly, nursing the remnants of a colossal hangover. "Goodness! Have I been off that long! Honestly, Ted! I'll never get the housework done if you continue to leave me off for days at a time. How are the children?" "Fine. Still sleeping." "If this is the tenth, then you've had your -- your -- " " 'Toot' is the word. And I feel awful." "What's that cut above your eye? Did someone hit you?" "My assailant was the floor of a Third Avenue bar. I came off second best." She was instantly solicitous. "You could have a concussion!" "I'm fine." "You're angry again." "I'm fine and I'm not angry. Now, go wind the dog while I wake the kids." If only she would react, thought Rice, watching her silent withdrawal. If only once she would stomp her feet, throw things, scream at him. But always, always this everlasting indulgence! The spark which ignites a marriage, makes it glow, was missing. In love, he knew there is violence and Margaret's love was a calm, manufactured emotion, which left him unsatisfied and edgy, a love unreal, intolerable. When he and Helen had quarreled, had things out and reconciled, they were actually much closer to one another for having weathered a personal storm. But, with Margaret, the ease was different. Rice thought of the latest incident, two nights ago, when he had been with Skipper encouraging the dog to beg for a plasto-bone. Skipper was outdated, as modern dogs go, but he represented a link with the fading past which Margaret seemed bent on severing. She renewed the familiar subject of his purchasing a modernized, electronic canine to replace the shaggy wind-up model, and he all but hit the ceiling, thundering at her, gesturing, swearing. But she had remained impassive, turning aside his rage with her calm smile. Then, savagely, he had switched her off, as one might extinguish a glaring light. How frozen she had stood! How instantly drained of personality and movement! In that moment, facing her perfect, motionless body, he experienced a recurrent sense of guilt which invariably accompanied such action, as though he had taken a life, had murdered. Damning his own weakness he had left her there, smiling, in the silent room. "Daddy, Daddy, Daddy," squealed Timmy after he was activated. "Hooray, hooray, it's PicnicDay! Hooray, hooray!" "Hooray, hooray," Rice repeated without enthusiasm, envisioning a hectic afternoon of child-noise and forced amusement. "Now, quiet down. Your father's not feeling well," Margaret cautioned from the hall as Timmy zoomed and swooshed about the house playing Rocket. Little Susan's enthusiasm matched that of her mechanical brother. She hopped around the living room, circling Rice, screaming out her delight in a voice that pierced his head like a driven needle. he shouted at the whirling children, "or I'll switch you both off!" Under his stern threat they  quieted. Margaret returned with Skipper. The dog had run down the previous evening chasing the electronic cat next door. He scampered rustily across the floor, high falsetto bark betraying the damaging effect of morning precipitation. "Good ole Skip... You need some oil fella," Rice told him, tickling his ears. "Have you fixed in a jiff. Timmy, get the oilcan from the shelf." Rice was in the act of administering the proper lubricant when Jackie emerged from the hallway, rubbing sleep from his eyes. "Hi, Mom. Hi, Dad. Morning everybody." He yawned. "Hi, scout," Rice greeted him, roughing his already thoroughly tousled hair. "Have a good rest?" "Sure. Hey, this is Picnic-Day isn't it? When are we leaving?" "Soon as little sleepy-heads like you get out of their pajamas and into some breakfast." He playfully swatted Jackie's bottom. "Now git-" Margaret took the boy's hand. "Come on, dear. I have breakfast on the table." And over her shoulder to Rice. "I do think we should get an early start." Susan and Timmy bounded into the yard with Skipper, leaving Rice alone with his thoughts. He said , Hi Mom , first , before Hi Dad. And the look in his eyes when she took his hand! Jackie is too young to see Margaret as I see her; he can't realize that she can never really love him as he loves her. The longer she's here the harder it will be for Jackie when the break comes. I mustn't put off telling Margaret any longer. #'U tell her today. Today. soundlessly over the highway, blurring the trees, rushing the houses past, but to Rice the speed was illusion, stage trickery. His impatient mind, reaching for the moment when he would be alone with Margaret and able to tell her what he must tell her, changed minutes to hours. Head back against the seat, eyes closed, he imagined the car in lazy slow-motion, wheels barely turning, each blade of roadside grass available and separate to the eye if one chose to look. The ride to the picnic ground seemed endless. "I'm bushed," he said to Margaret after the car had parked itself. "Let's skip the games today and just relax in the shade." "But Ted, the children... "... can play without us. I have something to say to you, something important." She hesitated, watching the activity on the playing courts. The children, three elves in their picnicjumpers, fidgeted, desperately anxious to join the games, their eyes darting like imprisoned minnows in small white pools. "In order to be enjoyed to the fullest the games require family participation." "Nonsense." "Young and old, Ted. The games..." "To hell with the games!" he snapped. "Are you going to listen to what I have to say or not?" "Of course, darling. If you really want to talk... She smiled, pressed his hand,... the children can join the Hartleys." She pointed across the wide picnic lawn to a group of rioting players engaged in a vigorous game of Magna-Ball. "Run along you three. And be careful." "Wheeeeeeee!" pealed little Susan, and hands linked like a daisychain the happily released trio sprang toward the courts. "If we're going to talk we can at least be comfortable," Margaret said, unpacking a plasto-blanket and spreading it over the prickling grass. Every gesture perfect , thought Rice watching her hands, every movement graceful and sure. She's so alive , so amazingly human , possessing such vibrancy and warmth , that sometimes even I find it difficult to think of her as artificially created of wire and circuit and cog. Certainly Jackie has come to love her. She's good and kind and smiles a great deal. These things matter to Jackie. The fact that she isn't human does not matter. Not at all. The situation , therefore, is grave. "What are you thinking about, Ted?" Her blue eyes were steady on his. "About you. About how beautiful you are." He plucked a single dandelion from the grass and held its orange-gold face, like a miniature sun, in the cupped palm of his hand. "This is a weed masquerading as a flower. Beautiful, possessing many virtues, but actually a weed which must be removed before its deep tap root smothers the surrounding grass. Unless it is, there will eventually be room only for the dandelion." "What has all this... "You're like the dandelion, Margaret. You're smothering Jackie's love. He has grown to love you far more than he does me. Up to now I've been just a visiting relative who comes home from some distant place to spend Christmas and summer vacations with you. When he was younger he cried whenever I shut you off, as though I had beaten him. Even now he watches me lose my temper, swear, bang the furniture, and I see him looking at me, and I know he's comparing us, weighing us. The scales are in your favor. I'm home to stay now and as long as you're here he'll always be comparing. I can't, I won't, compete with a mechanical for my son's affection!" She sucked in her breath, sharply. He could see that his words had struck with the force of hurled stones. "Have you thought this all out, Ted? Isn't there some other way?" She was actually trembling. "You know how much I love you." "You only think you love me, Margaret. What you mistake for love is only conditioning. Recepters can be re-fed, patterned responses erased, new ones substituted. At Central Exchange they'll change you Margaret. You'll never know I existed." "Ted, you can't!" "There's no other way." A silence between them. Despite himself Rice again experienced a twinge of guilt. Perhaps he had broken the news in two ruthless a fashion, but it was imperative that she understand his position and he had considered it impossible to pierce her shell of calm. That she would be visibly shaken by his words was totally unexpected. Of course, he reasoned, no mechanical likes the idea of complete re-orientation. On these grounds  her behavior seemed less surprising. But still... "Why have you told me all this?" she asked him. "Why didn't you turn me in suddenly, without my knowing in advance? I'd have preferred that." Her hands moved nervously on her skirt, toyed with the locket at her neck, now touched at her hair like two restless hummingbirds unable to fly away from her body. "Because I need your help. Jackie mustn't know the truth. Not now. Later, when he's older, better able to evaluate facts for himself, he'll understand. I'll tell him something about your having to go on a long trip for reasons of health. He'll believe if you'll back me up. Will you?" "If that's what you want," she replied softly, head down, her fingers turning and turning the dandelion he had discarded. I'll do anything you want, Ted... because I love you." "Timmy and Susan can stay with Jackie for awhile," he hurried on, "to make your leaving easier for him. In time he'll adjust." "Yes... he'll adjust." The drowsy rustle of leaves in summer air. The distant hum of voices from the playing courts. "Well then, it's settled." "All settled. You'd better call the children in for lunch." After lunch Rice gamboled in the scented grass with the whooping children, imitating, to their vast delight, a bear, a gorilla, a whale, a jet train and a moon rocket. He ran races with them and organized a full-scale rodeo, in which he doubled in brass as a fiercely snorting brahma bull. On the way home they sang folk songs and watched the sun go down over the ocean. The day, everyone agreed, had been a huge success. sleep. The headboard whispered, "Three AM sir," when he questioned the hour. He lay on his back, hands laced behind his head, staring into the ghost darkness of the room. In the moon-painted sky a copter whirred like a giant night insect seeking distant city lights, and Rice thought of Helen. In past weeks he had been finding it remarkably difficult to remember many of the things about her that he wished to remember; time had hidden her image as a coin is hidden in deep waters. The drone of the copter faded into Margaret's quiet breathing from the bed beside his, and now her face drifted into his mind, super-imposed over the dim reflection of Helen. He saw, in infinite detail, each curling black hair of her downswept lashes, long and trembling against the rose of her cheek. He saw her quivering lips form words, four startling words of the afternoon:... because I love you." Impossible, that a mechanical could love as Helen had loved ; that a being of metal and glass, of wires however cunningly woven could fathom and experience such deeply genuine emotion. Yet, was it conceivable, Rice wondered in the pressing darkness, that somehow an unknown process had taken place in Margaret, that far back in the green cave of her brain, among the delicate spiderwebbing of silver wires and hidden circuitings, an emotion had come into being above and beyond that of the purely mechanical? At # AM a robin's sweet song awoke him. He felt a breath of air against his closed eyes from the passing flutter of small wings. Burying his head deeper in the snowsoft pillow he tried to ignore the insistent twitterings. However, he knew the damn thing would begin a banshee shrieking if he didn't get out of bed. Irritably he staggered into his slippers, and the robin settled with feathered grace upon his outstretched hand. Rice flipped the body-switch and placed the immobilized Alarmbird on the nightstand. "I've had breakfast." He lied to her when she asked. Today he wasn't hungry. She nibbled toast and drank orange juice in silence. He avoided her eyes, finding inconsequential kitchen duties to occupy his hands while she ate. After half finishing her food she said, her voice very distinct in the morning room, "I guess it's time." "Early yet," he said, not meeting her eyes. "No hurry at all." "They open the doors at eightthirty. We can set the car for a slow drive." A silence. "Did you... tell the children goodbye?" "Last night. We won't need to wake them. They'll be fine until you get back." She put on black gloves, carefully fitting each finger, pulling them tight. "Margaret, I'm sorry. Honest to God, I'm sorry it has to be this way." "Don't say anything else, Ted. Just let's go." "All right," he said. "Let's go." Through the open car window Rice inhaled the rich afterscent of rain, and sighed. He wished it had not turned out to be such a damned fine day. The sky outside should have been gray, the trees stark and cold, like mourners along the street as the car, a silver coffin, passed them by. He tried to think of something to say to Margaret as the car bore them steadily through the crystal morning toward the massive white stone building housing Central Exchange. He tried to think of words which would not sound wrong the moment they were uttered, as all of his words had sounded of late. But he found none and remained silent. It was she who turned to him in the moving car and spoke first. "Ted, what are you doing?" Her voice was strange. "Doing?" he echoed, facing her. "To me, to Jackie, to yourself." "Margaret you're not going to. question me now ? We've gone all over this, the reasons for my decision, the factors involved. Surely you must realize -- " "Damn your reasons!" she exploded, eyes blazing at him, gloved hands clenched. "Are they fair? Do they take my feelings into consideration? Do they, Ted? Answer me! Do they?" He couldn't answer her. A door was opening somewhere deep inside him and light was miraculously flooding in to illuminate a room he had never allowed himself to enter. He was blind, and her words were sight. "I'm a mechanical, isn't that the answer Ted? A bloodless machine that can be switched off at will, ignored, cursed, shouted at and destroyed, a creature without emotion, without feeling. Well, you're wrong, Ted. So very wrong. Men built me, gave me human impulses, human desires, put into me a part of themselves, a part of their own humanity. I feel hunger and thirst and cold and pain. But more, Ted! I feel a human hunger, a human thirst, a desire to be respected for myself, as an individual, as I respect others, a desire to be loved as I love others. Can't you see how wrong you've been? I've held all of these things within because I was taught enduring humility and consummate patience by those who fashioned me. I was taught to behave rationally and calmly, to accept, to always accept and never question or rebel. But now it's ended and I've lost... You've rejected me, Ted, and I wasn't prepared for this... I can't accept this but I don't know how to fight... I only know I must and I don't know how..." Her lips were trembling, her whole body swaying in the tide of released rage and sorrow. "Lord, Lord, Margaret..." He placed a gentle hand beneath her chin and lifted her bowed head slowly. "You -- You're crying ! # But of course there were no tears. Rice stopped the car and took her, trembling, into his arms, saying her name over and over, quietly, trembling himself, and softly, tenderly, he kissed her. Then, setting the controls at manual, he turned the car around and with one arm holding her close on the seat beside him he drove carefully home through the warm summer streets, knowing that never again, never ever again in all the years to come, would he switch her off.    It was a dark, misty, mysterious institution with an awesome record of cures... Just the place, in fact, for one who wanted to know: if society is to be protected against the individual, why can't the individual be protected against society? By Robert Sheckley Illustrated by Leo Summers The Cahill-Thomas Manufacturing Company is pleased to present our newest Sanity Meter. This beautiful, rugged instrument, small enough for any bedroom, kitchen or den, is in all respects an exact replica of the larger C-T Sanity Meters used in most places of business, recreation, transportation, etc. No pains have been spared to give you the best Sanity Meter possible, at the lowest possible price. #. operation. At the lower righthand comer of your Meter is a switch. Turn it to On position, and allow a few seconds for warming up. Then switch from On position to Operate position. Allow a few seconds for reading. #. reading. On the front of your Meter, above the operating switch, is a transparent panel, showing a straight-line scale numbered from zero to ten. The number at which the black indicator stops shows your Sanity Reading, in relation to the present statistical norm. zero to three. On this model, as on all Sanity Meters, zero is the theoretically perfect sanity point. Everything above zero is regarded as a deviation from the norm. However, zero is a statistical rather than an actual idea. The normalcy range for our civilization lies between zero and three. Any rating in this area is considered normal. four to seven. These numbers represent the sanity-tolerance limit. Persons registering in this area should consult their favorite therapy at once. #. explanation of numbers eight to ten. A person who registers above seven is considered a highly dangerous potential to his ly neurotic, prepsychotic or psychotic. This individual is required by law to register his rating, and to bring it below seven within a probationary period. (Consult your state laws for periods of probation.) Failing this, he must undergo Surgical Alteration, or may submit voluntarily to therapy at The Academy. #. explanation of number ten. At ten on your Meter there is a red line. If a sanity-reading passes this line, the individual so registered can no longer avail himself of the regular commercial therapies. This individual must undergo Surgical Alteration immediately, or submit at once to therapy at The Academy. warning : Good Luck -- The Cahill-Thomas Company Mr. Feerman knew he should leave immediately for work. Under the circumstances, any tardiness might be construed unfavorably. He went so far as to put on his neat gray hat, adjust his tie and start for the door. But, his hand on the knob, he decided to wait for the mail. He turned away from the door, annoyed with himself, and began to pace up and down the living room. He had known he was going to wait for the mail ; why had he gone through the pretense of leaving? Couldn't he be honest with himself, even now, when personal honesty was so important? His black cocker spaniel Speed, curled up on the couch, looked curiously at him. Feerman patted the dog's head, reached for a cigarette, and changed his mind. He patted Speed again, and the dog yawned lazily. Feerman adjusted a lamp that needed no adjusting, shuddered for no reason, and began to pace the room again. Reluctantly, he admitted to himself that he didn't want to leave his apartment, dreaded it in fact, although nothing was going to happen. He tried to convince himself that this was just another day, like yesterday and the day before. Certainly if a man could believe that, really believe it, events would defer indefinitely, and nothing would happen to him. Besides, why should anything happen today? He wasn't at the end of his probationary period yet. He thought he heard a noise outside his apartment, hurried over and opened the door. He had been mistaken; the mail hadn't arrived. But down the hall his landlady opened her door and looked at him with pale, unfriendly eyes. Feerman closed the door and found that his hands were shaking. He decided that he had better take a sanity reading. He entered the bedroom, but his robutler was there, sweeping a little pile of dust toward the center of the room. Already his bed was made; his wife's bed didn't require making, since it had been unoccupied for almost a week. "Shall I leave, sir?" the robutler asked. Feerman hesitated before answering. He preferred taking his reading alone. Of course, his robutler wasn't really a person. Strictly speaking, the mechanical had no personality; but he had what seemed like a personality. Anyhow, it didn't matter whether he stayed or left, since all personal robots had sanity-reading equipment built into their circuits. It was required by law. "Suit yourself," he said finally. The robutler sucked up the little pile of dust and rolled noiselessly out of the room. Feerman stepped up to the Sanity Meter, turned it on and set the operating control. He watched morosely as the black indicator climbed slowly through the normal twos and threes, through the deviant sixes and sevens, and rested finally on eight-point-two. One tenth of a point higher than yesterday. One tenth closer to the red line. Feerman snapped off the machine and lighted a cigarette. He left the bedroom slowly, wearily, as though the day were over, instead of just beginning. "The mail, sir  # the robutler said, gliding up to him. Feerman grabbed the letters from the robutler's outstretched hand and looked through them. "She didn't write," he said involuntarily. "I'm sorry, sir," the robutler responded promptly. "You're sorry?" Feerman looked at the mechanical curiously. "Why?" "I am naturally interested in your welfare, sir," the robutler stated. "As is Speed, to the extent of his intelligence. A letter from Mrs. Feerman would have helped your morale. We are sorry it didn't come." Speed barked softly and cocked his head to one side. Sympathy from a machine, Feerman thought, pity from a beast. But he was grateful all the same. "I don't blame her," he said. "She couldn't be expected to put up with me forever." He waited, hoping that the robot would tell him that his wife would return, that he would soon be well. But the robutler stood silently beside Speed, who had gone to sleep again. Feerman looked through the mail again. There were several bills, an advertisement, and a small, stiff letter. The return address on it was The Academy, and Feerman opened it quickly. Within was a card, which read, "Dear Mr. Feerman, your application for admission has been processed and found acceptable. We will be happy to receive you at any time. Thank You, the Directors." Feerman squinted at the card. He had never applied for admission to The Academy. It was the last thing in the world he wanted to do. "Was this my wife's idea?" he asked. "I do not know, sir," the robutler said. Feerman turned the card over in his hand. He had always been vaguely aware of the existence of The Academy, of course. One couldn't help but be aware of it, since its presence affected every strata of life. But actually, he knew very little about this important institution, surprisingly little. "What is The Academy?" he asked. "A large low gray building," his robutler answered. "It is situated in the Southwest corner of the city, and can be reached by a variety of public conveyances." "But what is it?" "A registered therapy," the robutler said, "open to anyone upon application, written or verbal. Moreover. The Academy exists as a voluntary choice for all people of plus ten rating, as an alternative to Surgical Personality Alteration." Feerman sighed with exasperation "I know all that. But what is their system? What kind of therapy?" "I do not know, sir," the robutler said. "What's their record of cures?" "One hundred percent  # the robutler answered promptly. Feerman remembered something else now, something that struck him as rather strange. "Let me see  # he said. "No one leaves The Academy. Is that right ? # "There has been no record of anyone leaving after physically entering  # the robutler said. "Why ? # "I do not know, sir." Feerman crumpled the card and dropped it into an ashtray. It was all very strange. The Academy was so well known, so accepted, one never thought to ask about it. It had always been a misty place in his mind, far-away, unreal. It was the place you went to if you became plus ten, since you didn't want to undergo lobotomy, topectomy, or any other process involving organic personality loss. But of course you tried not to think of the possibility of becoming plus ten, since the very thought was an admission of instability, and therefore you didn't think of the choices open to you if it happened. For the first time in his life, Feerman decided he didn't like the setup. He would have to do some investigating. Why didn't anyone leave The Academy? Why wasn't more known of their therapy, if their cures were really one hundred percent effective? "I'd better get to work," Feerman said. "Make me anything at all for supper." "Yes, sir. Have a good day, sir." Speed jumped down from the couch and followed him to the door. Feerman knelt down and stroked the dog's sleek black head. "No, boy, you stay inside. No burying bones today." "Speed does not bury bones," the robutler said. "That's right." Dogs today, like their masters, rarely had a feeling of insecurity. No one buried bones today. "So long." He hurried past his landlady's door and into the street. F eerman was almost twenty minutes late for work. As he entered the building, he forgot to present his probationary certificate to the scanning mechanism at the door. The gigantic commercial Sanity Meter scanned him, its indicator shot past the seven point, lights flashed red. A harsh metallic voice shouted over the loudspeaker, "Sir! Sir! Your deviation from the norm has passed the safety limit! Please arrange for therapy at once!" Quickly Feerman pulled his probationary certificate out of his wallet. But perversely, the machine continued to bellow at him for a full ten seconds longer. Everyone in the lobby was staring at him. Messenger boys stopped dead, pleased at having witnessed a disturbance. Businessmen and office girls whispered together, and two Sanity Policemen exchanged meaningful glances. Feerman's shirt, soaked with perspiration, was plastered against his back. He resisted an urge to run from the building, instead walked toward an elevator. But it was nearly full, and he couldn't bring himself to enter. He trotted up a staircase to the second floor, and then took an elevator the rest of the way up. By the time he reached the Morgan Agency he had himself under control. He showed his probationary certificate to the Sanity Meter at the door, mopped his face with a handkerchief, and walked in. Everyone in the agency knew what had happened. He could tell by their silence, their averted faces. Feerman walked rapidly to his office, closed the door and hung up his hat. He sat down at his desk, still slightly out of wind, filled with resentment at the Sanity Meter. If only he could smash all the damned things! Always prying, setting off their alarms in your ear, unstabilizing you... Feerman cut off the thought quickly. There was nothing wrong with the Meters. To think of them as active persecuting agents was paranoidal, and perhaps a symptom of his present unsane status. The Meters were mere extensions of man's will. Society as a whole, he reminded himself, must be protected against the individual, just as a human body must be protected against malfunction of any of its parts. As fond as you might be of your gall bladder, you would sacrifice it mercilessly if it were going to impair the rest of you. He sensed something shaky in this analogy, but decided not to pursue it any farther. He had to find out more about The Academy. After lighting a cigarette he dialed the Therapy Reference Service. "May I help you, sir?" a pleasant-voiced woman asked. "I'd like to get some information about The Academy," Feerman said, feeling a trifle foolish. The Academy was so well known, so much a part of everyday life, it was tantamount to asking what form of government your country had. "The Academy is located -- " "I know where it's located," Feerman said. "I want to know what sort of therapy they administer." "That information is not available, sir," the woman said, after a pause. "No? I thought all data on commercial therapies was available to the public." "Technically, it is," the woman answered slowly. "But the Academy is not, strictly, a commercial therapy. It does accept money; however, it admits charity cases as well, without quota. Also, it is partially supported by the government." Feerman tapped the ash off his cigarette and said impatiently, "I thought all government projects were open to the public." "As a general rule, they are. Except when such knowledge will be harmful to the public." "Then such knowledge of The Academy would be harmful?" Feerman said triumphantly, feeling that he was getting to the heart of the matter. "Oh, no sir!" The woman's voice became shrill with amazement. "I didn't mean to imply that! I was just stating the general rules for withholding of information. The Academy, although covered by the laws, is, to some extent, extra-legal. This status is allowed because of The Academy's one hundred percent record of cures." "Where can I see a few of these cures ? # Feerman asked. "I understand that no one ever leaves The Academy . # He had them now, Feerman thought, waiting for an answer. Over the telephone he thought he heard a whispering. Suddenly a man's voice broke in, loud and clear. "This is the Section Chief. Is there some difficulty?" Hearing the man's sharp voice, Feerman almost dropped the telephone. His feeling of triumph vanished, and he wished he had never made the call. But he forced himself to go on. "I want some information on The Academy." "The location -- # "No! I mean real information ! # Feerman said desperately. "To what purpose do you wish to put this information?" the Section Chief asked, and his voice was suddenly the smooth, almost hypnotic voice of a therapist. "Insight," Feerman answered quickly. "Since The Academy is a therapeutic alternative open to me at all times, I would like to know more about it, in order to judges -- # "Very plausible," the Section Chief said. "But consider. Are you asking for a useful, functional insight? One that will better your integration into society? Or are you asking merely for the sake of an overriding curiosity, thereby yielding to restlessness, and other, deeper drives?" "I'm asking because -- # "What is your name?" the Section Chief asked suddenly. Feerman was silent. "What is your sanity rating?" Still Feerman didn't speak. He was trying to decide if the call were already traced, and decided that it was. "Do you doubt The Academy's essential benevolence?" "No." "Do you doubt that The Academy works for the preservation of the Status Quo?" "No." "Then what is your problem? Why won't you tell me your name and sanity rating? Why do you feel this need for more information?" "Thank you," Feerman murmured, and hung up. He realized that the telephone call had been a terrible mistake. It had been the action of a plus-eight, not a normal man. The Section Chief, with his trained perceptions, had realized that at once. Of course the Section Chief wouldn't give information to a plus-eight! Feerman knew he would have to watch his actions far more closely, analyze them, understand them, if he ever hoped to return to the statistical norm. As he sat, there was a knock; the door opened and his boss, Mr. Morgan entered. Morgan was a big, powerfully built man with a full, fleshy face. He stood in front of Feerman's desk, drumming his fingers on the blotter, looking as embarrassed as a caught thief. "Heard that report downstairs," he said, not looking at Feerman, tapping his fingers energetically. "Momentary peak," Feerman said automatically. "Actually, my rating has begun to come down." He couldn't look at Morgan as he said this. The two men stared intently at different corners of the room. Finally, their eyes met. "Look, Feerman, I try to stay out of people's business," Morgan said, sitting on the corner of Feerman's desk. "But damn it, man, Sanity is everyone's business. We're all in the game together." The thought seemed to increase Morgan's conviction. He leaned forward earnestly"You know, I'm responsible for a lot of people here. This is the third time in a year you've been on probation." He hesitated. "How did it start?" Feerman shook his head. "I don't know, Mr. Morgan. I was just going along quietly -- and my rating started to climb." Morgan considered, then shook his head. "Can't be as simple as that. Have you been checked for brain lesions?" "I've been assured it's nothing organic." "Therapy?" "Everything," Feerman said. "Electro-therapy, Analysis, Smith's Method, The Rannes School, DevioThought, Differentiation -- " "What did they say?" Morgan asked. Feerman thought back on the endless line of therapists he had gone to. He had been explored from every angle that psychology had to offer. He had been drugged, shocked, explored. But it all boiled down to one thing. "They don't know." "Couldn't they tell you any thing?" Morgan asked. "Not much. Constitutional restlessness, deeply concealed drives, inability to accept the Status Quo. They all agree I'm a rigid type. Even Personality Reconstruction didn't take on me." "Prognosis?" "Not so good." Morgan stood up and began to pace the floor, his hands clasped behind his back. "Feerman, I think it's a matter of attitude. Do you really want to be part of the team?" "I've tried everything -- " "Sure. But have you wanted to change? Insight!" Morgan cried, smashing his fist into his hand as though to crush the word. "Do you have insight?" "I don't suppose so," Feerman said with genuine regret. "Take my case," Morgan said earnestly, standing in front of Feerman's desk with his feet widely and solidly planted. "Ten years ago, this agency was twice as big as it is now, and growing! I worked like a madman, extending my holdings, investing, expanding, making money, and more money." "And what happened?" "The inevitable. My rating shot up from a two-point-three to plusseven. I was in a bad way." "No law against making money," Feerman pointed out. "Certainly not. But there is a psychological law against making too much. Society today just isn't geared for that sort of thing. A lot of the competition and aggression have been bred out of the race. After all, we've been in the Status Quo for almost a hundred years now. In that time, there've been no new inventions, no wars, no major developments of any kind. Psychology has been normalizing the race, breeding out the irrational elements. So with my drive and ability, it was like -- like playing tennis against an infant. I couldn't be stopped." Morgan's face was flushed, and he had begun to breathe heavily. He checked himself, and went on in a quieter tone. "Of course, I was doing it for neurotic reasons. Power urge, a bad dose of competitiveness. I underwent Substitution Therapy." Feerman said, "I don't see anything unsane about wanting to expand your business." "Good Lord, man, don't you understand anything about Social Sanity, Responsibility, and Stasis? I was on my way to becoming wealthy. From there, I would have founded a financial empire. All quite legal, you understand, but unsane . After that, who knows where I would have gone? Into indirect control of the government, eventually. I'd want to change the psychological policies to conform to my own abnormalities. And you can see where that would lead." "So you adjusted," Feerman said. "I had my choice of Brain Surgery, The Academy, or adjustment. Fortunately, I found an outlet in competitive sports. I sublimated my selfish drives for the good of mankind. But the thing is this, Feerman. I was heading for that red line. I adjusted before it was too late." "I'd gladly adjust," Feerman said, "if I only knew what was wrong with me. The trouble is, I really don't know." Morgan was silent for a long time, thinking. Then he said, "I think you need a rest, Feerman." "A rest?" Feerman was instantly on the alert. "You mean I'm fired?" "No, of course not. I want to be fair, play the game. But I've got a team here." Morgan's vague gesture included the office, the building, the city. "Unsanity is insidious. Several ratings in the office have begun to climb in the last week." "And I'm the infection spot." "We must accept the rules," Morgan said, standing erectly in front of Feerman's desk. "Your salary will continue until -- until you reach some resolution." "Thanks," Feerman said dryly. He stood up and put on his hat. Morgan put a hand on his shoulder. "Have you considered The Academy?" he asked in a low voice. "I mean, if nothing else seems to work -- " "Definitely and irrevocably not," Feerman said, looking directly into Morgan's small blue eyes. Morgan turned away. "You seem to have an illogical prejudice against The Academy. Why? You know how our society is organized. You can't think that anything against the common good would be allowed." "I don't suppose so," Feerman admitted. "But why isn't more known about The Academy?" They walked through the silent office. None of the men Feerman had known for so long looked up from their work. Morgan opened the door and said, "You know all about The Academy." "I don't know how it works." "Do you know everything about any therapy? Can you tell me all about Substitution Therapy? Or Analysis? Or Olgivey's Reduction?" "No. But I have a general idea how they work." "Everyone does," Morgan said triumphantly, then quickly lowered his voice. "That's just it. Obviously, The Academy doesn't give out such information because it would interfere with the operation of the therapy itself. Nothing odd about that, is there?" Feerman thought it over, and allowed Morgan to guide him into the hall. "I'll grant that," he said. "But tell me; why doesn't anyone ever leave The Academy? Doesn't that strike you as sinister?" "Certainly not. You've got a very strange outlook." Morgan punched the elevator button as he talked. "You seem to be trying to create a mystery where there isn't one. Without prying into their professional business, I can assume that their therapy involves the patient's remaining at The Academy. There's nothing strange about a substitute environment. It's done all the time." "If that's the truth, why don't they say so?" "The fact speaks for itself." "And where," Feerman asked, "is the proof of their hundred percent cures?" The elevator arrived, and Feerman stepped in. Morgan said, "The proof is in their saying so. Therapists can't lie. They can't, Feerman!" Morgan started to say something else, but the elevator doors slid shut. The elevator started down, and Feerman realized with a shock that his job was gone. having a job any longer. He had no place to go. Often he had hated his work. There had been mornings when he had groaned at the thought of another day at the office. But now that he had it no longer, he realized how important it had been to him, how solid and reliable. A man is nothing, he thought, if he doesn't have work to do. He walked aimlessly, block after block, trying to think. But he was unable to concentrate. Thoughts kept sliding out of reach, eluding him, and were replaced by glimpses of his wife's face. And he couldn't even think about her, for the city pressed in on him, its faces, sounds, smells. The only plan of action that came to mind was unfeasible. Run away, his panicky emotions told him. Go where they'll never find you. Hide! But Feerman knew this was no solution. Running away was sheer escapism, and proof of his deviation from the norm. Because what, really, would he be running from? From the sanest, most perfect society that Man had ever conceived. Only a madman would run from that. Feerman began to notice the people he passed. They looked happy, filled with the new spirit of Responsibility and Social Sanity, a new era of peace. It was a good world, a hell of a good world. Why couldn't he live in it? He could . With the first confidence he had felt in weeks, Feerman decided that he would conform, somehow. If only he could find out how. After hours of walking, Feerman discovered that he was hungry. He entered the first diner he saw. The place was crowded with laborers, for he had walked almost to the docks. He sat down and looked at a menu, telling himself that he needed time to think. He had to assess his actions properly, figure out -- "Hey mister." He looked up. The bald, unshaven counterman was glaring at him. "What?" "Get out of here." "What's wrong?" Feerman asked, trying to control his sudden panic. "We don't serve no madmen here," the counterman said. He pointed to the Sanity Meter on the wall, that registered everyone walking in. The black indicator pointed slightly past nine. "Get out." Feerman looked at the other men at the counter. They sat in a row, dressed in similar rough brown clothing. Their caps were pulled down over their eyes, and every man seemed to be reading a newspaper. "I've got a probationary -- " "Get out," the counterman said. "The law says I don't have to serve no plus-nines. It bothers my customers. Come on, move." The row of laborers sat motionless, not looking at him. Feerman felt the blood rush to his face. He had the sudden urge to smash in the counterman's bald, shiny skull, wade into the row of listening men with a meat cleaver, spatter the dirty walls with their blood, smash, kill. But of course, aggression was unsane, and an unsatisfactory response. He mastered the impulse and walked out. Feerman continued to walk, resisting an urge to run, waiting for that train of logical thought that would tell him what to do. But his thoughts only became more confused, and by twilight he was ready to drop from fatigue. He was standing on a narrow, garbage-strewn street in the slums. He saw a hand-lettered sign in a second-floor window, reading, J. wryly, thinking of all the highpriced specialists he had seen. He started to walk away, then turned, and went up the staircase leading to Flynn's office. He was annoyed with himself again. The moment he saw the sign he had known he was going up. Would he never stop deceiving himself? Flynn's office was small and dingy. The paint was peeling from the walls, and the room had an unwashed smell. Flynn was seated behind an unvarnished wooden desk, reading an adventure magazine. He was small, middle-aged and balding. He was smoking a pipe. Feerman had meant to start from the beginning. Instead he blurted out, "Look, I'm in a jam. I've lost my job, my wife's left me, I've been to every therapy there is. What can you do?" Flynn took the pipe out of his mouth and looked at Feerman. He looked at his clothes, hat, shoes, as though estimating their value. Then he said, "What did the others say?" "In effect, that I didn't have a chance." "Of course they said that," Flynn said, speaking rapidly in a high, clear voice. "These fancy boys give up too easily. But there's always hope. The mind is a strange and complicated thing, my friend, and sometimes -- # Flynn stopped abruptly and grinned with sad humor. "Ah, what's the use? You've got the doomed look, no doubt of it." He knocked the ashes from his pipe and stared at the ceiling. "Look, there's nothing I can do for you. You know it, I know it. Why'd you come up here?" "Looking for a miracle, I suppose," Feerman said, wearily sitting down on a wooden chair. "Lots of people do," Flynn said conversationally. "And this looks like the logical place for one, doesn't it? You've been to the fancy offices of the specialists. No help there. So it would be right and proper if an itinerant therapist could do what the famous men failed to do. A sort of poetic justice." "Pretty good," Feerman said, smiling faintly. "Oh, I'm not at all bad," Flynn green pouch. "But the truth of the matter is, miracles cost money, always have, always will. If the big boys couldn't help you, I certainly couldn't." "Thanks for telling me," Feerman said, but made no move to get up. "It's my duty as a therapist," Flynn said slowly, "to remind you that The Academy is always open." "How can I go there?" Feerman asked. "I don't know anything about it." "No one does," Flynn said. "Still, I hear they cure every time." "Death is a cure." "But a non-functional one. Besides, that's too discordant with the times. Deviants would have to run such a place, and deviants just aren't allowed." "Then why doesn't anyone ever leave?" "Don't ask me," Flynn said. "Perhaps they don't want to." He puffed on his pipe. "You want some advice. OK. Have you any money?" "Some," Feerman said warily. "OK. I shouldn't be saying this, but... Stop looking for cures! Go home. Send your robutler out for a couple month's supply of food. Hole up for a while." "Hole up? Why?" Flynn scowled furiously at him. "Because you're running yourself ragged trying to get back to the norm, and all you're doing is getting worse. I've seen it happen a thousand times. Don't think about sanity or unsanity. Just lie around a couple months, rest, read, grow fat. Then see how you are." "Look," Feerman said, "I think you're right. I'm sure of it! But I'm not sure if I should go home. I made a telephone call today... I've got some money. Could you hide me here? Could you hide me?" Flynn stood up and looked fearfully out the window at the dark street. "I've said too much as it is. If I were younger -- but I can't do it! I've given you unsane advice! I can't commit an unsane action on top of that!" "I'm sorry," Feerman said. "I shouldn't have asked you. But I'm really grateful. I mean it." He stood up. "How much do I owe you?" "Nothing," Flynn said. "Good luck to you . # "Thanks . # Feerman hurried downstairs and hailed a cab. In twenty minutes he was home. as Feerman walked toward his apartment. His landlady's door was closed as he passed it, but he had the impression that it had been open until he came, and that the old woman was standing beside it now, her ear against the thin wood. He walked faster, and entered his apartment. It was quiet in his apartment, too. Feerman walked into the kitchen. His robutler was standing beside the stove, and Speed was curled up in the corner. "Welcome home, sir , # the robutler said. "If you will sit, I will serve your supper . # Feerman sat down, thinking about his plans. There were a lot of details to work out, but Flynn was right. Hole up, that was the thing. Stay out of sight. "Til want you to go shopping first thing in the morning , # he said to the robutler. "Yes sir , # the robutler said, placing a bowl of soup in front of him. "We'll need plenty of staples. Bread, meat... No, buy canned goods." "What kind of canned goods?" the robutler asked. "Any kind, as long as it's a balanced diet. And cigarettes, don't forget cigarettes! Give me the salt, will you?" The robutler stood beside the stove, not moving. But Speed began to whimper softly. "Robutler. The salt please." "I'm sorry, sir," the robutler said. "What do you mean, you're sorry? Hand me the salt." "I can no longer obey you." "Why not?"  "You have just gone over the red line, sir. You are now plus ten." Feerman just stared at him for a moment. Then he ran into the bedroom and turned on the Sanity Meter. The black indicator crept slowly to the red line, wavered, then slid decisively over. He was plus ten. But that didn't matter, he told himself. After all, it was a quantitative measurement. It didn't mean that he had suddenly become a monster. He would reason with the robutler, explain it to him. Feerman rushed out of the bedroom. "Robutler! Listen to me -- # He heard the front door close. The robutler was gone. Feerman walked into the living room and sat down on the couch. Naturally the robutler was gone. They had built-in sanity reading equipment. If their masters passed the red line, they returned to the factory automatically. No plus ten could command a mechanical. But he still had a chance. There was food in the house. He would ration himself. It wouldn't be too lonely with Speed here. Perhaps he would just need a few days. "Speed?" There was no sound in the apartment. "Come here, boy." Still no sound. Feerman searched the apartment methodically, but the dog wasn't there. He must have left with the robutler. Alone, Feerman walked into the kitchen and drank three glasses of water. He looked at the meal his robutler had prepared, started to laugh, then checked himself. He had to get out, quickly. There was no time to lose. If he hurried, he could still make it, to someplace, any place. Every second counted now. But he stood in the kitchen, staring at the floor as the minutes passed, wondering why his dog had left him. There was a knock on his door. "Mr. Feerman!" "No," Feerman said. "Mr. Feerman, you must leave now." It was his landlady. Feerman walked to the door and opened it. "Go? Where?" "I don't care. But you can't stay here any longer, Mr. Feerman. You must go." Feerman went back for his hat, put it on, looked around the apartment, then walked out. He left the door open. Outside, two men were waiting for him. Their faces were indistinct in the darkness. "Where do you want to go?" one OolcPfl "Where can I go?" "Surgery or The Academy." "The Academy, then." They put him in a car and drove quickly away. Feerman leaned back, too exhausted to think. He could feel a cool breeze on his face, and the slight vibration of the car was pleasant. But the ride seemed interminably long. "Here we are," one of the men said at last. They stopped the car and led him inside an enormous gray building, to a barren little room. In the middle of the room across it, snoring gently. One of Feerman's guards cleared his throat loudly. The receptionist sat up immediately, rubbing his eyes. He slipped on a pair of glasses and looked at them sleepily. "Which one?" he asked. The two guards pointed at Feerman. "All right." The receptionist stretched his thin arms, then opened a large black notebook. He made a notation, tore out the sheet and handed it to Feerman's guards. They left immediately. The receptionist pushed a button, then scratched his head vigorously. "Full moon tonight," he said to Feerman, with evident satisfaction. "What?" Feerman asked. "Full moon. We get more of you guys when the moon's full, or so it seems. I've thought of doing a study on it." "More? More what?" Feerman asked, still adjusting to the shock of being within The Academy. "Don't be dense," the receptionist said sternly. "We get more plus tens when the moon is full. I don't suppose there's any correlation, but -- ah, here's the guard." A uniformed guard walked up to the desk, still knotting his tie. "Take him to #AA," the receptionist said. As Feerman and the guard walked away, he removed his glasses and stretched out again on the desk. through a complex network of corridors, marked off with frequent doors. The corridors seemed to have grown spontaneously, for branches shot off at all angles, and some parts were twisted and curved, like ancient city streets. As he walked, Feerman noticed that the doors were not numbered in sequence. He passed #, then #P, and then #. And he was certain that he passed the number # three times. "How can you find your way?" he asked the guard. "That's my job," the guard said, not unpleasantly. "Not very systematic," Feerman said, after a while. "Can't be," the guard said in an almost confidential tone of voice. "Originally they planned this place with a lot fewer rooms, but then the rush .started. Patients, patients, more every day, and no sign of a letup. So the rooms had to be broken into smaller units, and new corridors had to be cut through." "But how do the doctors find their patients?" Feerman asked. They had reached #AA. Without answering, the guard unlocked the door, and, when Feerman had walked through, closed and locked it after him. It was a very small room. There was a couch, a chair, and a cabinet, Almost immediately, Feerman heard voices outside the door. A man said, "Coffee then, at the cafeteria in half an hour." A key turned. Feerman didn't hear the reply, but there was a sudden burst of laughter. A man's deep voice said, "Yes, and a hundred more and we'll have to go underground for room!" The door opened and a bearded man in a white jacket came in, still smiling faintly. His face became professional as soon as he saw Feerman. "Just lie on the couch, please," he said, politely, but with an unmistakable air of command. Feerman remained standing. "Now that I'm here," he said, "would you explain what all this means?" The bearded man had begun to unlock the cabinet. He looked at Feerman with a wearily humorous expression, and raised both eyebrows. "I'm a doctor," he said, "not a lecturer." "I realize that. But surely -- " "Yes, yes," the doctor said, shrugging his shoulders helplessly. "I know. You have a right to know, and all that. But they really should have explained it all before you reached here. It just isn't my job." Feerman remained standing. The doctor said, "Lie down on the couch like a good chap, and I'll tell all." He turned back to the cabinet. Feerman thought fleetingly of trying to overpower him, but realized that thousands of plus tens must have thought of it, too. Undoubtedly there were precautions. He lay down on the couch. "The Academy," the doctor said as he rummaged in the cabinet, is obviously a product of our times. To understand it, you must first understand the age we live in." The doctor paused dramatically, then went on with evident gusto. "Sanity! But there is a tremendous strain involved in sanity, you know, and especially in social sanity. How easily the mind becomes deranged! And once deranged, values change, a man begins to have strange hopes, ideas, theories, and a need for action. These things may not be abnormal in themselves, but they result inevitably in harm to society, for movement in any direction harms a static society. Now, after thousands of years of bloodshed, we have set ourselves the goal of protecting society against the unsane individual. Therefore -- it is up to the individual to avoid those mental configurations, those implicit decisions which will make him a dangerous potential for change. This will to staticity which is our ideal required an almost superhuman strength and determination. If you don't have that, you end up here." "I don't see -- " Feerman began, but the doctor interrupted. "The need for The Academy should now be apparent. Today, brain surgery is the final effective alternative to sanity. But this is an unpleasant eventuality for a man to contemplate, a truly hellish alternative. Government brain surgery involves death to the original personality, which is death in its truest form. The Academy tries to relieve a certain strain by offering another alternative." "But what is this alternative? Why don't you tell it?" "Frankly, most people prefer not knowing." The doctor closed and locked the cabinet, but Feerman could not see what instruments he had selected. "Your reaction isn't typical, I assure you. You choose to think of us as something dark, mysterious, frightening. This is because of your unsanity. Sane people see us as a panacea, a pleasantly misty relief from certain grim certainties. They accept us on faith." The doctor chucked softly. "To most people, we represent heaven." "Then why not let your methods be known?" "Frankly," the doctor said softly, "even the methods of heaven are best not examined too closely." "So the whole thing is a hoax!" Feerman said, trying to sit up. "You're going to kill me!" "Most assuredly not," the doctor said, restraining him gently until Feerman lay back again. "Then what exactly are you going to do?" "You'll see." "And why doesn't anyone return?" "They don't choose to," the doctor said. Before Feerman could move, the doctor had deftly inserted a needle into his arm, and injected him with a warm liquid. "You must remember," the doctor said, "Society must be protected against the individual." "Yes," Feerman said drowsily, "but who is to protect the individual against society?" The room became indistinct and, although the doctor answered him, Feerman couldn't hear his words, but he was sure that they were wise, and proper, and very true. sciousness he found that he was standing on a great plain. It was sunrise. In the dim light, wisps of fog clung to his ankles, and the grass beneath his feet was wet and springy. Feerman was mildly surprised to see his wife standing beside him, close to his right side. On his left was his dog Speed, pressed against his leg, trembling slightly. His surprise passed quickly, because this was where his wife and dog should be; at his side before the battle. Ahead, misty movement resolved into individual figures, and as they approached Feerman recognized them. They were the enemy! Leading the procession was his robutler, gleaming inhumanly in the halflight. Morgan was there, shrieking to the Section Chief that Feerman must die, and Flynn, that frightened man, hid his face but still advanced against him. And there was his landlady, screaming, "No home for him!" And behind her were doctors, receptionists, guards, and men in rough laborer's clothing, caps jammed down over their faces, newspapers tightly rolled as they advanced. Feerman tensed expectantly for this ultimate fight against the enemies who had betrayed him. But a doubt passed over his mind. Was this real? He had a sudden sickening vision of his drugged body lying in a numbered room in The Academy, while his soul was here in the nevernever land, doing battle with shadows. There's nothing wrong with me! In a moment of utter clarity Feerman understood that he had to escape. His destiny wasn't here, fighting dream-enemies. He had to get back to the real world. The Status Quo couldn't last forever. And what would mankind do, with all the toughness, inventiveness, individuality bred out of the race? Did no one leave The Academy? He would! Feerman struggled with the illusions, and he could almost feel his discarded body stir on its couch, groan, move... But his dream-wife seized his arm and pointed. His dream-dog snarled at the advancing host. The moment was gone forever, but Feerman never knew it. He forgot his decision, forgot earth, forgot truth, and drops of dew spattered his legs as he ran forward to engage the enemy in battle. By Philip K. Dick Illustrated by Paul Orban As curator of the Twentieth Century Exhibit, George Miller felt that to do a good job he had to live his work. Then, one day, somebody got into his exhibit and he went to investigate... on  # the robot pubtrans driver observed. It slid back its door and came to rest at the curb. "What are the little round things?" "Those are buttons # ' George Miller explained. "They are partly functional, partly ornamental. This is an archaic suit of the twentieth century. I wear it because of the nature of my employment." He paid the robot, grabbed up his briefcase, and hurried along the ramp to the History Agency. The main building was already open for the day; robed men and women wandered everywhere. Miller enbetween two immense controllers from the pre-Christian division, and in a moment was on his way to his own level, the Middle Twentieth Century. "Gorning," he murmured, as Controller Fleming met him at the atomic engine exhibit. "Gorning," Fleming responded brusquely. "Look here, Miller. Let's have this out once and for all. What if everybody dressed like you? The Government sets up strict rules for dress. Can't you forget your damn anachronisms once in awhile? What in God's name is that thing in your hand? It looks like a squashed Jurassic lizard." "This is an alligator-hide briefcase," Miller explained. "I carry my study spools in it. The briefcase was an authority symbol of the managerial class of the latter twentieth century." He unzipped the briefcase. "Try to understand, Fleming. By accustoming myself to everyday objects of my research period I transform my relation from mere intellectual curiosity to genuine empathy. You have frequently noticed I pronounce certain words oddly. The accent is that of an American business man of the Eisenhower administration. Dig me?" "Eh?" Fleming muttered. " Dig me was a twentieth century expression." Miller laid out his study spools on his desk. "Was there anything you wanted? If not I'll begin today's work. I've uncovered fascinating evidence to indicate that although twentieth century Americans laid their own floor tiles, they did not weave their own clothing. I wish to alter my exhibits on this matter." "There's no fanatic like an academician," Fleming grated. "You're two hundred years behind times. Immersed in your relics and artifacts. Your damn authentic replicas of discarded trivia." "I love my work," Miller answered mildly. "Nobody complains about your work. But there are other things than work. You're a political-social unit here in this society. Take warning, Miller! The Board has reports on your eccentricities. They approve devotion to work... His eyes narrowed significantly. "But you go too far." "My first loyalty is to my art," Miller said. "Your what? What does that mean?" "A twentieth century term." There was undisguised superiority on Miller's face. "You're nothing but a minor bureaucrat in a vast machine. You're a function of an impersonal cultural totality. You have no standards of your own. In the twentieth century men had personal standards of workmanship. Artistic craft. Pride of accomplishment. These words mean nothing to you. You have no soul -- another concept from the golden days of the twentieth century when men were free and could speak their minds." "Beware, Miller!" Fleming blanched nervously and lowered his voice. "You damn scholars. Come up out of your tapes and face reality. You'll get us all in trouble, talking this way. Idolize the past, if you want. But remember -- it's gone and buried. Times change. Society progresses." He gestured impatiently at the exhibits that occupied the level. "That's only an imperfect replica." "You impugn my research?" Miller was seething. "This exhibit is absolutely accurate! I correct it to all new data. There isn't anything I don't know about the twentieth century." Fleming shook his head. "It's no use." He turned and stalked wearily off the level, onto the descent ramp. Miller straightened his collar and bright hand-painted necktie. He smoothed down his blue pinstripe coat, expertly lit a pipeful of two-century-old tobacco, and returned to his spools. Why didn't Fleming leave him alone? Fleming, the officious representative of the great hierarchy that spread like a sticky gray web over the whole planet. Into each industrial, professional, and residential unit. Ah, the freedom of the twentieth century! He slowed his tape scanner a moment, and a dreamy look slid over his features. The exciting age of virility and individuality, when men were men... It was just about then, just as he was settling deep in the beauty of his research, that he heard the inexplicable sounds. They came from the center of his exhibit, from within the intricate, carefully-regulated interior. Somebody was in his exhibit. He could hear them back there, back in the depths. Somebody or something had got past the safety barrier set up to keep the public out. Miller snapped off his tape scanner and got slowly to his feet. He was shaking all over as he moved cautiously toward the exhibit. He killed the barrier and climbed the railing onto a concrete sidewalk. A few curious visitors blinked, as the small, oddly-dressed man crept among the authentic replicas of the twentieth century that made up the exhibit and disappeared within. Breathing hard, Miller advanced up the sidewalk and onto a carefully-tended gravel path. Maybe it was one of the other theorists, a minion of the Board, snooping around looking for something with which to discredit him. An inaccuracy here -- a trifling error of no consequence there. Sweat came out on his forehead; anger became terror. To his right was a flower bed. Paul Scarlet roses and low-growing pansies. Then the moist green lawn. The gleaming white garage, with its door half up. The sleek rear of a # Buick -- and then the house itself. He'd have to be careful. If it was somebody from the Board he'd be up against the official hierarchy. Maybe it was somebody big. Maybe even Edwin Carnap, President of the Board, the highest ranking official in the N'York branch of the World Directorate. Shakily, Miller, climbed the three cement steps. Now he was on the porch of the twentieth century house that made up the center of the exhibit. It was a nice little house; if he had lived back in those days he would have wanted one of his own. Three bedrooms, a ranch-style California bungalow. He pushed open the front door and entered the livingroom. Fireplace at one end. Dark wine-colored carpets. Modem couch and easy chair. Low hardwood glass-topped coffee table. Copper ashtrays. A cigarette lighter and a stack of magazines. Sleek plastic and steel floor lamps. A bookcase. Television set. Picture window overlooking the front garden. He crossed the room to the hall. The house was amazingly complete. Below hisfeet the floor furnace radiated a faint aura of warmth. He peered into the first bedroom. A woman's boudoir. Silk bed cover. White starched sheets. Heavy drapes. A vanity table. Bottles and jars. Huge round mirror. Clothes visible within the closet. A dressing gown thrown over the back of a chair. Slippers. Nylon hose carefully placed at the foot of the bed. Miller moved down the hall and peered into the next room. Brightly painted wallpaper: clowns and elephants and tight-rope walkers. The children's room. Two little beds for the two boys. Model airplanes. A dresser with a radio on it, pair of combs, school books, pennants, a No Parking sign, snapshots stuck in the mirror. A postage stamp album. Nobody there, either. Miller peered in the modern bathroom, even into the yellowtiled shower. He passed through the diningroom, glanced down the basement stairs where the washing machine and dryer were. Then he opened the back door and examined the back yard. A lawn, and the incinerator. A couple of small trees and then the three-dimensional projected backdrop of other houses receding off into incredibly convincing blue hills. And still no one. The yard was empty -- deserted. He closed the door and started back... From the kitchen came laughter. A woman's laugh. The clink of spoons and dishes. And smells. It took him a moment to identify them, scholar that he was. Bacon and coffee. And hot cakes. Somebody was eating breakfast. A twentieth century breakfast. He made his way down the hall, past a man's bedroom, shoes and clothing strewn about, to the entrance of the kitchen. A handsome late-thirtyish woman and two teen-age boys were sitting around the little chrome and plastic breakfast table. They had finished eating; the two boys were fidgeting impatiently. Sunlight filtered through the window over the sink. The electric clock read half past eight. The radio was chirping merrily in the corner. A big pot of black coffee rested in the center of the table, surrounded by empty plates and milk glasses and silverware. The woman had on a white blouse and checkered tweed skirt. Both boys wore faded blue jeans, sweatshirts, and tennis shoes. As yet they hadn't noticed him. Miller stood frozen at the doorway, while laughter and small talk bubbled around him. "You'll have to ask your father," the woman was saying, with mock sternness. "Wait until he comes back." "He already said we could," one of the boys protested. "Well, ask him again." "He's always grouchy in the morning." "Not today. He had a good night's sleep. His hay fever didn't bother him. That new anti-hist the doctor gave him." She glanced up at the clock. "Go see what's keeping him, Don. He'll be late to work." "He was looking for the newspaper." One of the boys pushed back his chair and got up. "It missed the porch again and fell in the flowers." He turned toward the door, and Miller found himself confronting him face to face. Briefly, the observation flashed through his mind that the boy looked familiar. Damn familiar -- like somebody he knew, only younger. He tensed himself for the impact, as the boy abruptly halted. "Gee," the boy said. "You scared me. The woman glanced quickly up at Miller. "What are you doing out there, George?" she demanded. "Come on back in here and finish your coffee." kitchen. The woman was finishing her coffee; both boys were on their feet and beginning to press around him. "Didn't you tell me I could go camping over the weekend up at Russian River with the group from school?" Don demanded. "You said I could borrow a sleeping bag from the gym because the one I had you gave to the Salvation Army because you were allergic to the kapok in it." "Yeah," Miller muttered uncertainly. Don . That was the boy's name. And his brother, Ted. But how did he know that? At the table the woman had got up and was collecting the dirty dishes to carry over to the sink. "They said you already promised them," she said over her shoulder. The dishes clattered into the sink and she began sprinkling soap flakes over them. "But you remember that time they wanted to drive the car and the way they said it, you'd think they had got your okay. And they hadn't, of course." Miller sank weakly down at the table. Aimlessly, he fooled with his pipe. He set it down in the copper ashtray and examined the cuff of his coat. What was happening? His head spun. He got up abruptly and hurried to the window, over the sink. Houses, Streets. The distant hills beyond the town. The sights and sounds of people. The three-dimensional projected backdrop was utterly convincing; or was it the projected backdrop? How could he be sure? What was happening? "George, what's the matter?" Marjorie asked, as she tied a pink plastic apron around her waist and began running hot water in the sink. "You better get the car out and get started to work. Weren't you saying last night old man Davidson was shouting about employees being late for work and standing around the water cooler talking and having a good time on company time?" Davidson. The word stuck in Miller's mind. He knew it, of course. A clear picture leaped up: a tall, white-haired old man, thin and stern. Vest and pocket watch. And the whole office, United Electronic Supply. The twelve story building in downtown San Francisco. The newspaper and cigar stand in the lobby. The honking cars. Jammed parking lots. The elevator, packed with bright-eyed secretaries, tight sweaters and perfume. He wandered out of the kitchen, through the hall, past his own bedroom, his wife's, and into the livingroom. The front door was open and he stepped out onto the porch. The air was cool and sweet. It was a bright April morning. The lawns were still wet. Cars moved down Virginia Street, toward Shattuck Avenue. Early morning commuting traffic, businessmen on their way to work. Across the street Earl Kelly cheerfully waved his Oakland Tribune as he hurried down the sidewalk toward the bus stop. A long way off Miller could see the Bay Bridge, Yerba Buena Island, and Treasure Island. Beyond that was San Francisco itself. In a few minutes he'd be shooting across the bridge in his Buick, on his way to the office. Along with thousands of other businessmen in blue pinstripe suits. Ted pushed past him and out on the porch. "Then it's okay? You don't care if we go camping?" Miller licked his dry lips. "Ted, listen to me. There's something strange." "Like what?" "I don't know." Miller wandered nervously around on the porch. "This is Friday, isn't it?" "Sure." "I thought it was." But how did he know it was Friday? How did he know anything? But of course it was Friday. A long hard week -- old man Davidson breathing down his neck. Wednesday, especially, when the General Electric order was slowed down because of a strike. "Let me ask you something," Miller said to his son. "This morning -- I left the kitchen to get the newspaper." Ted nodded. "Yeah. So?" "I got up and went out of the room. How long was I gone? Not long, was I?" He searched for words, but his mind was a maze of disjointed thoughts. "I was sitting at the breakfast table with you all, and then I got up and went to look for the paper. Right? And then I came back in. Right?" His voice rose desperately. "I got up and shaved and dressed this morning. I ate breakfast. Hot cakes and coffee. Bacon. Right?" "Right," Ted agreed. "So?" "Like I always do." "We only have hot cakes on Friday." Miller nodded slowly. "That's right. Hot cakes on Friday. Because your uncle Frank eats with us Saturday and Sunday and he can't stand hot cakes, so we stopped having them on weekends. Frank is Marjorie's brother. He was in the Marines in the First World War. He was a corporal." "Goodbye," Ted said, as Don came out to join him. "We'll see you this evening." School books clutched, the boys sauntered off toward the big modern high school in the center of Berkeley. Miller re-entered the house and automatically began searching the closet for his briefcase. Where was it? Damn it, he needed it. The whole Throckmorton account was in it ; Davidson would be yelling his head off if he left it anywhere, like in the True Blue Cafeteria that time they were all celebrating the Yankee's winning the series. Where the hell was it -- He straightened up slowly, as memory came. Of course. He had left it by his work desk, where he had tossed it after taking out the research tapes. While Fleming was talking to him. Back at the History Agency. He joined his wife in the kitchen. "Look," he said huskily. "Marjorie, I think maybe I won't go down to the office this morning." Marjorie spun in alarm. "George, is anything wrong?" "I'm -- completely confused." "Your hay fever again?" "No. My mind. What's the name mended when Mrs. Bentley's kid had that fit?" He searched his disorganized brain. "Grunberg, I think. In the Medical-Dental building." He moved toward the door. "I'll drop by and see him. Something's wrong -- really wrong. And I don't know what it is." heavy-set man in his late forties, with curly brown hair and hornrimmed glasses. After Miller had finished, Grunberg cleared his throat, brushed at the sleeve of his Brooks Bros, suit, and asked thoughtfully. "Did anything happen while you were out looking for the newspaper? Any sort of accident? You might try going over that part in detail. You got up from the breakfast table, went out on the porch, and started looking around in the bushes. And then what?" Miller rubbed his forehead vaguely. "I don't know. It's all confused. I don't remember looking for any newspaper. I remember coming back in the house. Then it gets clear. But before that it's all tied up with the History Agency and my quarrel with Fleming." "What was that again about your briefcase? Go over that." "Fleming said it looked like a squashed Jurassic lizard. And I said -- " "No. I mean, about looking for it in the closet and not finding it." "I looked in the closet and it wasn't there, of course. It's sitting beside my desk at the History Agency. On the Twentieth Century level. By my exhibits." A strange expression crossed Miller's face. "Good God, Grunberg. You realize this may be nothing but an exhibit? You and everybody else -- maybe you're not real. Just pieces of this exhibit." "That wouldn't be very pleasant for us, would it?" Grunberg said, with a faint smile. "People in dreams are always secure until the dreamer wakes up," Miller retorted. "So you're dreaming me," Grunberg laughed tolerantly. "I suppose I should thank you." "I'm not here because I especially like you. I'm here because I can't stand Fleming and the whole History Agency." Grunberg pondered. "This Fleming. Are you aware of thinking about him before you went out looking for the newspaper?" Miller got to his feet and paced around the luxurious office, between the leather-covered chairs and the huge mahogany desk. "I want to face this thing. I'm in an exhibit. An artificial replica of the past. Fleming said something like this would happen to me." "Sit down, Mr. Miller," Grunberg said, in a gentle but commanding voice. When Miller had taken his chair again, Grunberg continued, "I understand what you say. You have a general feeling that everything around you is unreal. A sort of stage." "An exhibit." "Yes, an exhibit in a museum." "In the N'York History Agency. Level R, the Twentieth Century level." "And in addition to this general feeling of -- insubstantiality, there are specific projected memories of persons and places beyond this world. Another realm in which this one is contained. Perhaps I should say, the reality within which this is only a sort of shadow world." "This world doesn't look shadowy to me." Miller struck the leather arm of the chair savagely. "This world is completely real. That's what's wrong. I came in to investigate the noises and now I can't get back out. Good God, do I have to wander around this replica the rest of my life?" "You know, of course, that your feeling is common to most of mankind. Especially during periods of great tension. Where -- by the way -- was the newspaper? Did you find it?" "As far as I'm concerned -- " "Is that a source of irritation with you? I see you react strongly to a mention of the newspaper." Miller shook his head wearily. "Forget it." "Yes, a trifle. The paperboy carelessly throws the newspaper in the bushes, not on the porch. It makes you angry. It happens again and again. Early in the day, just as you're starting to work. It seems to symbolize in a small way the whole petty frustrations and defeats of your job. Your whole life." "Personally, I don't give a damn about the newspaper." Miller examined his wristwatch. "I'm going -- it's almost noon. Old man Davidson will be yelling his head off if I'm not at the office by -- " He broke off. "There it is again." "There what is?" "All this!" Miller gestured impatiently out the window. "This whole place. This damn world. This exhibition " "I have a thought," Doctor Grunberg said slowly. "I'll put it to you for what it's worth. Feel free to reject it if it doesn't fit." He raised his shrewd, professional eyes. "Ever see kids playing with rocketships?" "Lord," Miller said wretchedly. "I've seen commercial rocket freighters hauling cargo between Earth and Jupiter, landing at LaGuardia Spaceport." Grunberg smiled slightly. "Follow me through on this. A question. Is it job tension?" "What do you mean?" "It would be nice," Grunberg said blandly, "to live in the world of tomorrow. With robots and rocket ships to do all the work. You could just sit back and take it easy. No worries, no cares. No frustrations." "My position in the History Agency has plenty of cares and frustrations." Miller rose abruptly. "Look, Grunberg. Either this is an exhibit on R level of the History Agency, or I'm a middle-class businessman with an escape fantasy. Right now I can't decide which. One minute I think this is real, and the next minute -- " "We can decide easily," Grunberg said. "How?" "You were looking for the newspaper. Down the path, onto the lawn. Where did it happen ? Was it on the path? On the porch? Try to remember." "I don't have to try. I was still on the sidewalk. I had just jumped over the rail past the safety screens." "On the sidewalk. Then go back there. Find the exact place." "Why?" "So you can prove to yourself there's nothing on the other side." Miller took a deep, slow breath. "Suppose there is?" "There can't be. You said yourself: only one of the worlds can be real. This world is real -- " Grunberg thumped his massive mahogany desk. "Ergo, you won't find anything on the other side." "Yes," Miller said, after a moment's silence. A peculiar expression cut across his face and stayed there. "You've found the mistake." "What mistake?" Grunberg was puzzled. "What -- " Miller moved toward the door of the office. "I'm beginning to get it. I've been putting up a false question. Trying to decide which world is real." He grinned humorlessly back at Doctor Grunberg. "They're both real, of course." back to the house. No one was home. The boys were in school and Marjorie had gone downtown to shop. He waited indoors until he was sure nobody was watching along the street, and then started down the path to the sidewalk. He found the spot without any trouble. There was a faint shimmer in the air, a weak place just at the edge of the parking strip. Through it he could see faint shapes. He was right. There is was -- complete and real. As real as the sidewalk under him. A long metallic bar was cut off by the edges of the circle. He recognized it: the safety railing he had leaped over to enter the exhibit. Beyond it was the safety screen system. Turned off, of course. And beyond that, the rest of the level and the far walls of the History building. He took a cautious step into the weak haze. It shimmered around him, misty and oblique. The shapes beyond became clearer. A moving figure in a dark blue robe. Some curious person examining the exhibits. The figure moved on and was lost. He could see his own work desk, now. His tape scanner and heaps of study spools. Beside the desk was his briefcase, exactly where he had expected it. While he was considering stepping over the railing to get the briefcase, Fleming appeared. Some inner instinct made Miller step back through the weak spot, as Fleming approached. Maybe it was the expression on Fleming's face. In any case, Miller was back and standing firmly on the concrete sidewalk, when Fleming halted just beyond the juncture, face red, lips twisting with indignation. "Miiler," he said thickly. "Gome out of there." Miller laughed. "Be a good fellow, Fleming. Toss me my briefcase. It's that strange looking thing over by the desk. I showed it to you -- remember?" "Stop playing games and listen to me!" Fleming snapped. "This is serious. Carnap knows. I had to inform him." "Good for you. The loyal bureaucrat." Miller bent over to light his pipe. He inhaled and puffed a great cloud of gray tobacco smoke through the weak spot, out into the R level. Fleming coughed and retreated. "What's that stuff?" he demanded. "Tobacco. One of the things they have around here. Very common substance in the twentieth century. You wouldn't know about that -- your period is the second century, BG. The Hellenistic world. I don't know how well you'd like that. They didn't have very good plumbing back there. Life expectancy was damn short." "What are you talking about?" "In comparison, the life expectancy of my research period is quite high. And you should see the bathroom I've got. Yellow tile. And a shower. We don't have anything like that at the Agency leisurequarters." Fleming grunted sourly. "In other words, you're going to stay in there." "It's a pleasant place," Miller said easily. "Of course, my position is better than average. Let me describe it for you. I have an attractive wife: marriage is permitted, even sanctioned in this era. I have two fine kids -- both boys -- who are going up to Russian River this weekend. They live with me and my wife -- we have complete custody of them. The State has no power of that, yet. I have a brand new Buick -- " "Illusions," Fleming spat. "Psychotic delusions." "Are you sure?" "You damn fool! I always knew you were too ego-recessive to face reality. You and your anachronistic retreats. Sometimes I'm ashamed I'm a theoretician. I wish I had gone into engineering." Fleming's lip twitched. "You're insane, you know. You're standing in the middle of an artificial exhibit, which is owned by the History Agency, a bundle of plastic and wire and struts. A replica of a past age. An imitation. And you'd rather be there than in the real world." "Strange," Miller said thoughtfully. "Seems to me I've heard the same thing very recently. You don't know a Doctor Grunberg, do you? A psychiatrist." Without formality, Director Carnap arrived with his company of assistants and experts. Fleming quickly retreated. Miller found himself facing one of the most powerful figures of the twenty-second century. He grinned and held out his hand. "You insane imbecile," Carnap rumbled. "Get out of there before we drag you out. If we have to do that, you're through. You know what they do with advanced psychotics. It'll be euthanasia for you. I'll give you one last chance to come out of that fake exhibit -- " "Sorry," Miller said. "It's not an exhibit." Carnap's heavy face registered sudden surprise. For a brief instant his massive poise vanished. "You still try to maintain -- " "This is a time gate' Miller said quietly. "You can't get me out, Carnap. You can't reach me. I'm in the past, two hundred years back. I've crossed back to a previous existencecoordinate. I found a bridge and escaped from your continuum to this. And there's nothing you can do about it." together in a quick technical conference. Miller waited patiently. He had plenty of time ; he had decided not to show up at the office until Monday. After awhile Carnap approached the juncture again, being careful not to step over the safety railing. "An interesting theory, Miller. That's the strange part about psychotics. They rationalize their delusions into a logical system. A priori, your concept stands up well. It's internally consistent. Only -- " "Only what?" "Only it doesn't happen to be true." Carnap had regained his confidence; he seemed to be enjoying the interchange. "You think you're really back in the past. Yes, this exhibit is extremely accurate. Your work has always been good. The authenticity of detail is unequalled by any of the other exhibits." "I tried to do my work well," Miller murmured. "You wore archaic clothing and affected archaic speech-mannerisms. You did everything possible to throw yourself back. You devoted yourself to your work." Carnap tapped the safety railing with his fingernail. "It would be a shame, Miller. A terrible shame to demolish such an authentic replica." There was silence. "I see your point," Miller said, after a time. "I agree with you, certainly. I've been very proud of my work -- I'd hate to see it all torn down. But that really won't do you any good. All you'll succeed in doing is closing the time gate." "You're sure?" "Of course. The exhibit is only a bridge, a link with the past. I passed through the exhibit, but I'm not there now. I'm beyond the exhibit." He grinned tightly. "Your demolition can't reach me. But seal me off, if you want. I don't think I'll be wanting to come back." "I wish you could see this side, Carnap. It's a nice place here. Freedom, opportunity. Limited government, responsible to the people. If you don't like a job here you can quit. There's no euthanasia, here. Come on over. I'll introduce you to my wife." "We'll get you," Carnap said. "And all your psychotic figments along with you." "I doubt if any of my 'psychotic figments' are worried. Grunberg wasn't. I don't think Marjorie is -- " "We've already begun demolition preparations," Carnap said calmly. "We'll do it piece by piece, not all at once. So you may have the opportunity to appreciate the scientific and -- artistic way we take your imaginary world and people apart." "You're wasting your time," Miller said. He turned and walked off, down the sidewalk, to the gravel path and up onto the front porch of his house. In the living room he threw himself down in the easy chair and snapped on the television set. Then he went to the kitchen and got a can of ice cold beer from the refrigerator. He carried it happily back into the safe, comfortable living room. As he was seating himself in front of the television set he noticed something rolled up on the low coffee table. He grinned wryly. It was the morning newspaper, which he had looked so hard for. Marjorie had brought it in with the milk, as usual. And of course forgotten to tell him. He yawned contentedly and reached over to pick it up. Languidly, confidently, he unfolded it -- and read the big black headlines. wvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvmvvvvvvvmvvvvvvvvmvvvvvvvuvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvj to manage eight out of the # questions below. If you are a fan, or rabid reader, your score should be eleven right! Check your answers with those on page #. #. Which planet requires # years to make one circuit of the sun? #. A piezometer is used to measure the compressibility of #. What are the nuclei of heavy hydrogen called? #. In which constellation are the stars that form the Big Dipper? #. That part of the science of biology which deals with the relation between organisms and their environment is called #. Which is the fourth brightest star in the heavens? #. A Metonic cycle is a period of years, after which time the new moon and the full moon fall on the same days of the year again. #. In which constellation is the planet Pluto? #. Ylem is the word used to describe matter. #. Which is the brightest star in Bootes? I I . The Doppler shift is used by astrophysicists to estimate the of luminous bodies. #. The two principal types of galaxies are spiral and #. Which one is not a star: Procyon, Mizar, Spica, Alioth, Cetus, Regulus. That It landed on Earth was perhaps destiny. That Les and Marian were making their trip in August was perhaps coincidence. That Ketter kept a zoo was perhaps unfortunate. However, It was hungry -- and Les and Marian were making their trip and Ketter kept a zoo... A horror story you'll read with shivers down your spine! By Richard Matheson Illustrated by Virgil Finlay August #th that year, a ball of eerie light descended on the desert and people twenty miles away stared at the phosphorescent trail it left on the twilight sky. "A meteor," they said but that was because they had to say something. In darkness hovering. A soundless shell of metals glistening pale -- held aloft by threads of anti-gravity . Below , the planet, shrouded with night, turning from the moon. On its black-swept face, an animal staring up with bright-eyed panic at the dully phosphorescent globe suspended overhead. A twitch of muscle. The hard earth drums delicately beneath fleeing pawbeats. Silence again, wind-soughed and lone. Hours. Black hours passing into grey, then mottled pink. Sunlight sprays across the metal globe. It shimmers with unearthly light. It was like putting his hand into a scorching oven. "Oh my God, it's hot," he said, grimacing, jerking back his hand and closing it once more, gingerly, over the sweat-stained steering wheel. "It's your imagination." Marian lay slumped against the warm, plastic-covered seat. A mile behind, she'd stuck her sandaled feet out the window. Her eyes were closed, breath fell in fitful gasps from her drying lips. Across her face, the hot wind fanned bluntly, ruffling the short blond hair. "It's not hot," she said, squirming uncomfortably, tugging at the narrow belt on her shorts. "It's cool. As a cucumber." "Ha," Les grunted. He leaned forward a little and clenched his teeth at the feel of his sport shirt clinging damply to his back. "What a month for driving," he growled. They'd left Los Angeles three days before on their way to visit Marian's family in New York. The weather had been equatorial from the start, three days of blazing sun that had drained them of energy. The schedule they were attempting to maintain made things even worse. On paper, four hundred miles a day didn't seem like much. Converted into practical traveling it was brutalizing. Traveling over dirt cutoffs that sent up spinning, choking dust clouds. Traveling over rut-pocked stretches of highway under repair; afraid to hit more than twenty miles an hour on them for fear of snapping an axle or shaking their brains loose. Worst of all, traveling up twenty to thirty mile grades that sent the radiator into boiling frenzies every half hour or so. Then sitting for long, sweltering minutes, waiting for the motor to cool off, pouring in fresh water from the water bag, sitting and waiting in the middle of an oven. "I'm done on one side," Les said, breathlessly. "Turn me." "And ha to you," Marian sotto voiced. "Any water left?" Marian reached down her left hand and tugged off the heavy top of the portable ice box. Feeling inside its coolish interior, she pulled up the thermos bottle. She shook it. "Empty," she said, shaking her head. "As my head " he finished in a disgusted voice, "For ever letting you talk me into driving to New York in August." "Now, now," she said, her cajoling a trifle worn, "Don't get heated up. "Damn!" he snapped irritably, "When is this damn cutoff going to get back to the damn highway?" "Damn," she muttered lightly, "Damn damn." He said no more. His hands gripped tighter on the wheel. Hwy. # , alt . rte. -- they'd been on the damn thing for hours now, shunted aside by a section of the main highway undergoing repair. For that matter, he wasn't even sure they were on the alternate route. There had been five crossroads in the past two hours. In speeding along to get out of the desert, he hadn't looked too carefully at the crossroad signs. "Honey, there's a station," Marian said, "let's see if we can get some water." "And some gas," he added, glancing at the gauge, "And some instructions on how to get back to the highway." "The damn highway," she said. A faint smile tugged at Les's mouth corners as he pulled the Ford off the road and braked up beside the two paint-chipped pumps that stood before an old sagging shack. "This is a hot looking spot," he said dispassionately. "Ripe for development."  "For the right party." Marian's eyes closed again. She drew in a heavy breath through her open mouth. No one came out of the shack. "Oh, don't tell me it's deserted" Les said disgustedly, looking around. Marian drew down her long legs. "Isn't there anybody here?" she asked, opening her eyes. "Doesn't look like it." Les pushed open the door and slid out. As he stood, an involuntary grunt twitched his body and his knees almost buckled. It felt as if someone had dropped a mountain of heat on his head. c tGod!" He blinked away the waves of blackness lapping at his ankles. "What is it?" "This heat " He stepped between the two rusty handled pumps and crunched over the hot, flaky ground for the doorway of the shack. "And we're not even a third of the way," he muttered grimly to himself. Behind him, he heard the car door slam on Marian's side and her loose sandals flopping on the ground. Dimness gave the illusion of coolness only for a second. Then the muggy, sodden air in the shack pressed down on Les and he hissed in displeasure. There was no one in the shack. He looked around its small confines at the uneven-legged table with the scarred surface, the backless chair, the cobwebbed coke machine, the price lists and calendars on the wall, the threadbare shade on the small window, drawn down to the sill, shafts of burnished light impaling the many rents. The wooden floor creaked as he stepped back out into the heavy sunlight. "No one?" Marian asked and he shook his head. They looked at each other without expression a moment and she patted at her forehead with a damp handkerchief. "Well, onward," she said wryly. That was when they heard the car come rattling down the rutted lane that led off the road into the desert. They walked to the edge of the shack and watched the old, home-made tow truck make its wobbling, noisy approach toward the station. Far back from the road was the low form of the house it had come from. "To the rescue," Marian said. "I hope he has water." As the truck groaned to a halt beside the shack, they could see the heavily-tanned face of the man behind the wheel. He was somewhere in his thirties, a dour looking individual in a tee shirt and patched and faded blue overalls. Lank hair protruded from beneath the brim of his grease-stained stetson. It wasn't a smile he gave them as he slid out of the truck. It was more like a reflex twitching of his lean, humorless mouth. He moved up to them with jerky boot strides, his dark eyes moving from one to the other of them. "You want gas?" he asked Les in a hard, thick-throated voice. "Please." The man looked at Les a moment as if he didn't understand. Then he grunted and headed for the Ford, reaching into his back overall pocket for the pump key. As he walked past the front bumper, he glanced down at the license plate. He stood looking dumbly at the tank cap for a moment, his calloused fingers trying vainly to unscrew it. "It locks," Les told him, walking over hurriedly with the keys. The man took them without a word and unlocked the cap. He put the cap on top of the trunk door. "You want ethyl?" he asked, glancing up, his eyes shadowed by the wide hat brim. "Please," Les told him. "How much?" "You can fill it." The hood was burning hot. Les jerked back his fingers with a gasp. He took out his handkerchief, wrapped it around his hand and pulled up the hood. When he unscrewed the radiator cap, boiling water frothed out and splashed down smoking onto the parched ground. "Oh, fine," he muttered to himself. The water from the hose was almost as hot. Marian came over and put one finger in the slow gush as Les held it over the radiator. "Oh... gee," she said in disappointment. She looked over at the overalled man. "Have you got any cool water?" she asked. The man kept his head down, his mouth pressed into a thin, drooping line. She asked again, without result. "The hair-triggered Arizonian," she muttered to Les as she started back toward the man. "I beg your pardon," she said. The man jerked up his head, startled, the pupils of his dark eyes flaring. "Ma'm?" he said quickly. "Can we get some cool drinking water?" The man's rough-skinned throat moved once. "Not here, ma'm," he said, "but... His voice broke off and he looked at her blankly. "You... you're from California, ain't you?" he said. "That's right." "Goin'... ' far?" "New York," she said impatiently. "But what about -- " The man's bleached eyebrows moved together. "New York," he repeated. "Pretty far." "What about the water?" Marian asked him. "Well," the man said, his lips twitching into the outline of a smile, "I ain't got none here but if you want to drive back to the house, my wife'll get you some." "Oh." Marian shrugged slightly. "All. right." "You can look at my zoo while my wife gets the water," the man offered, then crouched down quickly beside the fender to listen and "We have to no back to his house c ) to get water," Marian told Les as he unscrewed one of the battery caps. "Oh? Okay." The man turned off the pump and replaced the cap. "New York, haah?" he said, looking at them. Marian smiled politely and nodded. After Les had pushed the hood back down, they got into the car to follow the man's truck back to the house. "He has a zoo," Marian said, expressionlessly. "How nice," Les said as he let up the clutch and the car rolled down off the slight rise on which the gas pumps stood. "They make me mad," Marian said. They'd seen dozens of the zoos since they'd left Los Angeles. They were usually located beside gas stations -- designed to lure extra customers. Invariably, they were pitiful collections -- barren little cages in which gaunt foxes cringed, staring out with sick, glazed eyes, rattlesnakes coiled lethargically, maybe a feather-molted eagle glowered from a dark cage corner. And, usually, in tjie middle of the so-called zoo would be a chained-up wolf or coyote ; a straggly woe-be-gone creature who paced constantly in a circle whose radius was the length of the chain; who never looked at the people but stared straight ahead with red-rimmed eyes, pacing endlessly on thin stalks of legs. "I hate them," Marian said bitterly. "I know, baby," Les said. "If we didn't need water, I'd never go back to his damned old house." Les smiled. "Okay ma," he said quietly, trying to avoid the holes in the lane. "Oh . # He snapped two fingers. "I forgot to ask him how to get back to the highway." "Ask him when we get to his house," she said. The house was faded brown, a two-story wooden structure that looked a hundred years old. Behind it stood a row of low, squarish huts. "The zoo," Les said, "Lions 'n tigers 'n everything." "Nuts," she said. He pulled up in front of the quiet house and saw the man in the stetson slide off the dusty seat of his truck and jump down off the running board. "Get you the water," he said quickly and started for the house. He stopped a moment and looked back. "Zoo's in the back," he said, gesturing with his head. They watched him move up the steps of the old house. Then Les stretched and blinked at the glaring sunlight. "Shall we look at the zoo ? # he asked, trying not to smile. "No." "Oh, come on." "No, I don't want to see that # "I'm going to take a look." "Well... all right," she said, "but it's going to make me mad." They walked around the edge of the house and moved along its side in the shade. "Oh, does that feel good," Marian said. "Hey, he forgot to ask for his money." "He will," she said. They approached the first cage and looked into the dim interior through the two-foot-square window that was barred with thick doweling. "Empty," Les said. "Good." "Some zoo." They walked slowly toward the next cage. "Look how small they are," Marian said unhappily, "How would he like to be cooped up in one of them?" She stopped walking. "No, I'm not going to look," she said angrily, "I don't want to see how the poor things are suffering." "I'll just take a look," he said. "You're a fiend." She heard him chuckle as she stood watching him walk up to the second of the cages. He looked in. "Marian!" His cry made her body twitch. "What is it?" she asked, running to him anxiously. "Look" He stared with shocked eyes into the cage. Her whisper trembled. "Oh my God" There was a man in the cage. believing eyes, unconscious of the large drops of sweat trickling across her brow and down her temples. The man was lying on the floor, sprawled like a broken doll across a dirty army blanket. His eyes were open but the man saw nothing. His pupils were dilated, he looked doped. His grimy hands rested limply on the thinly-strawed floor, motionless twists of flesh and bone. His mouth hung open like a yellowtoothed wound, edged with dry, cracking lips. When Les turned, he saw that Marian was already looking at him, her face blank, the skin drawn tautly over her paling cheeks. "What is this?" she asked in a faint tremor of voice. "I don't know." He glanced once more into the cage as if he already doubted what he'd seen. Then he was looking at Marian again. "I don't know," he repeated, feeling the heartbeats throb heavily in his chest. Another moment they looked at each other, their eyes stark with uncomprehending shock. "What are we going to do?" Marian asked, almost whispering the words. Les swallowed the hard lump in his throat. He looked into the cage again. "Hello" he heard himself say, "Can you -- " He broke off abruptly, throat moving again. The man was comatose. "Les, what if -- " He looked at her. And, suddenly, his scalp was crawling because Marian was looking in wordless apprehension at the next cage. His running footsteps thudded over the dry earth, raising the dust. "No" he murmured, looking into the next cage. He felt himself shudder uncontrollably as Marian ran up to him. "Oh my God, this is hideous " she cried, staring with sick fright at the second caged man. They both started as the man looked up at them with glazed, lifeless eyes. For a moment, his slack body lurched up a few inches and his dry lips fluttered as though he were trying to speak. A thread of saliva ran from one corner of his mouth and dribbled down across his beard-blackened chin. For a moment his sweaty, dirt-lined face was a mask of impotent entreaty. Then his head rolled to one side and his eyes rolled back. Marian backed away from the cage, shaking hand pressed to her cheek. "The man's insane " she muttered and looked around abruptly at the silent house. Then Les had turned too and both of them were suddenly aware of the man in the house who had told them to go and look at his zoo. "Les, what are we going to do?" Marian's voice shook with rising hysteria. Les felt numb, devoured by the impact of what they'd seen. For a long moment he could only stand shivering and stare at his wife, feeling immersed in some fantastic dream. Then his lips jammed together and the heat seemed to flood over him. , "Let's get out of here," he snapped and grabbed her hand. The only sound was their harsh panting and the quick slap of Marian's sandals on the hard ground. The air throbbed with intense heat, smothering their breath, making perspiration break out heavily across their faces and bodies. "Faster," Les gasped, tugging at her hand. Then, as they turned the edge of the house, they both recoiled with a violent contracting of muscles. "No!" Marian's cry contorted her face into a twisted mask of terror. The man stood between them and their car, a long double-barreled shotgun leveled at them. Les didn't know why the idea flooded through his brain. But, suddenly, he realized that no one knew where he and Marian were, no one could even know where to begin searching for them. In rising panic, he thought of the man asking them where they were going, he thought of the man looking down at their California license plate. And he heard the man, the hard, emotionless voice of the man. "Now go on back," the man said, "to the zoo" in one of the cages, Merv Ketter walked slowly back to the house, the heavy shotgun pulling down his right arm. He'd felt no pleasure in the act, only a draining relief that had, for a moment, loosened the tightness in his body. But, already, the tightness was returning. It never went away for more than the few minutes it took him to trap another person and cage him. If anything, the tightness was worse now. This was the first time he'd ever put a woman in one of his cages. The knowledge twisted a cold knot of despair in his chest. A woman -- he'd put a woman in his cage. His chest shuddered with harsh breath as he ascended the rickety steps of the back porch. Then, as the screen door slapped shut behind him, his long mouth tightened. Well, what was he supposed to do? He slammed the shotgun down on the yellow oil-clothed surface of the kitchen table, another forced breath wracking his chest. What else could I do -- he argued with himself. His boots clacked sharply across the worn linoleum as he walked to the quiet, sun-lanced livingroom. Dust rose from the old arm chair as he dropped down heavily, spiritlessly. What was he supposed to do? He'd had no choice. For the thousandth time, he looked down at his left forearm, at the slight reddish bulge just under the elbow joint. Inside his flesh, the tiny metal cone was still humming delicately. He knew it without listening. It never stopped. He slumped back exhaustedly with a groan and lay his head on the high back of the chair. His eyes stared dully across the room, through the long slanting bar of sunlight quivering with dust motes. At the mantelpiece. The Mauser rifle -- he stared at it. The Luger, the bazooka shell, the hand grenade, all of them still active. Vaguely, through his tormented brain, curled the idea of putting the Luger to his temple, holding the Mauser against his side, even of pulling out the pin and holding the grenade against his stomach. War hero . The phrase scraped cruelly at his mind. It had long lost its meaning, its comfort. Once, it had meant something to him to be a medaled warrior, ribboned, lauded, admired. Then Elsie had died, then the battles and the pride were gone. He was alone in the desert with his trophies and with nothing else. And then one day he'd gone into that desert to hunt. His eyes shut, his leathery throat moved convulsively. What was the use of thinking, of regretting? The will to live was still in him. Maybe it was a stupid, a pointless will but it was there just the same; he couldn't rid himself of it. Not after two men were gone, not after five, no, not even after seven men were gone. The dirt-filled nails dug remorselessly into his palms until they broke the skin. But a woman, a woman. The thought knifed at him. He'd never planned on caging a woman. One tight fist drove down in futile rage on his leg. He couldn't help it. Sure, he'd seen the California plate. But he wasn't going to do it. Then the woman had asked for water and he suddenly had known that he had no choice, he had to do it. There were only two men left. And he'd found out that the couple were going to New York and the tension had come and gone, loosened and tightened in a spastic rhythm as he knew, in his very flesh, that he was going to tell them to come and look at his zoo. I should have given them an injection, he thought. They might start screaming. It didn't matter about the man, he was used to men screaming. But a woman... Merv Ketter opened his eyes and stared with hopeless eyes at the mantelpiece, at the picture of his dead wife, at the weapons which had been his glory and now were meaningless -- steel and wood without worth, without substance. Hero . The word made his stomach turn. The glutinous pulsing slowed , paused a moment's fraction, then with its hissing, spumous sound. A flaccid wave of agitation rippled down along the rows of muscle coils . The being stirred . It was time . Thought. The shapeless , gauze airbubble coalesced; surrounded. The being moved, an undulation, a gelatinous worming within the shimmering bubble. A bumping, a slithering, a rocking flow of viscous tissues. Thought again -- a wave directing. The hiss of entering atmosphere, the soundless swinging of metal. Open. Shutting with a click. Sunset's blood edged the horizon. A slow and noiseless sinking in the air, a colorless balloon filled with something formless, something alive. Earth, cooling. The being touched it, settled. It moved across the ground and every living thing fled its scouring approach. In its ropy wake, the ground was left a green and yellow iridescence. "Look out." Marian's sudden whisper almost made him drop the nail file. He jerked back his hand, his sweatgrimed cheek twitching and drew back quickly into the shadows. The sun was almost down. "Is he coming this way?" Marian asked, her voice husky with dryness. "I don't know." He stood tensely, watching the overalled man approach, hearing the fast crunch of his boot heels on the baked ground. He tried to swallow but all the moisture in him had been blotted up by the afternoon heat and only a futile clicking sounded in his throat. He was thinking about the man seeing the deeply-filed slit in the window bar. The man in the stetson walked quickly, his face blank and hard, his hands swinging in tense little arcs at his sides. "What's he going to do?" Marian's voice rasped nervously, her physical discomfort forgotten in the sudden return of fear. Les only shook his head. All afternoon he'd been asking himself the same question. After they'd been locked up, after the man had gone back to his house, during the first terrifying minutes and for the rest of the time when Marian had found the nail file in the pocket of her shorts and shapeless panic had gained the form of hoping for escape. All during that time the question had plagued him endlessly. What was the man going to do with them? But it wasn't their cage the man was headed for. A loosening of relief made them both go slack. The man hadn't even looked toward the cage they were in. He seemed to avoid looking toward it. Then the man had passed out of their sight and they heard the sound of him unlocking one of the cages. The squeaking rasp of the rusty door hinges made Les's stomach muscles draw taut. The man appeared again. Marian caught her breath. They both stared at the unconscious man being dragged across the ground, his heels raking narrow gouges in the dust. After a few feet, the man let go of the limp arms and the body fell with a heavy thud. The man in the overalls looked behind him then, his head jerking around suddenly. They saw his throat move with a convulsive swallow. The man's eyes moved quickly, looking in all directions. "What's he looking for?" Marian asked in a shaking whisper. "Marian, I don't know # "He's leaving him there!" She almost whimpered the word. Their eyes filled with confused fear, they watched the overalled man move for the house again, his long legs pumping rapidly, his head moving jerkily as he looked from side to side. Dear God, what is he looking for? -- Les thought in rising dread. The man suddenly twitched in mid-stride and clutched at his left arm. Then, abruptly, he broke into a frightened run and leaped up the porch steps two at a time. The screen door slapped shut behind him with a loud report and then everything was deadly still. A sob caught in Marian's throat. "I'm afraid " she said in a thin, shuddering voice. He was afraid too; he didn't know of what but he was terribly up his back and rippled coldly on his neck. He kept staring at the body of the man sprawled on the ground, at the still, white face looking up sightlessly at the darkening sky. He jolted once as, across the yard, he heard the back door of the house being slammed shut and locked. of it that pressed down on them like lead. The man slumped motionless on the ground. Their breaths quick, labored. Their lips trembling, their eyes fastened almost hypnotically on the man. Marian drew up one fist and dug her teeth into the knuckles. Sunlight rimmed the horizon with a scarlet ribbon. Soundlessness. Heavy soundlessness. Soundlessness. Sound. Their breath stopped. They stood there, mouths open, ears straining at the sound they'd never heard before. Their bodies went rigid as they listened to -- A bumping , a slithering , a rocking fl ow f -- "Oh, God! # ' Her voice was a gasping of breathless horror as she spun away, shaking hands flung over her eyes. It was getting dark and he couldn't be sure of what he saw. He stood paralyzed and numb in the fetid air of the cage, staring with blood-drained face at the thing that moved across the ground toward the man's body; the thing that had shape yet not shape, that crept like a current of shimmering jellies. A terrified gagging filled his throat. He tried to move bajk but he couldn't. He didn't want to see. He didn't want to hear the hideous gurgling sound like water being sucked into a great drain, the turbid bubbling that was like vats of boiling tallow. No, his mind kept repeating, unable to accept, no, no, no, no! Then the scream made them both jerk like boneless things and drove Marian against one of the cage walls, shaking with nauseous shock. And the man was gone from the earth. Les stared at the place where he had been, stared at the luminous mass that pulsated there like a great mound of balloon-encased plankton undulating palely in their fluids. He stared at it until the man had been completely eaten. Then he turned away on deadened legs and stumbled to Marian's side. Her shaking fingers clutched like talons at his back and he felt her tearstreaked, twisted face press into his shoulder. Unfeelingly, he slid his arms around her, his face stiff with spent horror. Vaguely, through the body-clutching horror, he felt the need to comfort her, to ease her fright. But he couldn't. He felt as if a pair of invisible claws had reached into his chest and ripped out all his insides. There wasn't anything left, just a cold, frost-edged hollow in him. And, in the hollow, a knife jabbing its razor tip each time he realized again why they were there. When the scream came, Merv slammed both hands across his ears so hard it made his head ache. He couldn't seem to cut off the sound anymore. Doors wouldn't shut tightly enough, windows wouldn't seal away the world, walls were to porous -- the screams always reached him. Maybe it was because they were really in his mind where there were no doors to lock, no windows to shut and close away the screaming of terror. Yes, maybe they were in his mind. It would explain why he still heard them in his sleep. And, when it was over and Merv knew that the thing had gone, he trudged slowly into the kitchen and opened the door. Then, like a robot driven by remorseless gears, he went to the calendar and circled the date. Sunday, August #nd. The eighth man. The pencil dropped from his slack fingers and rolled across the linoleum. Sixteen days -- one man each two days for sixteen days. The mathematics of it were simple. The truth was not. He paced the living room, passing in and out of the lamplight aura which cast a buttery glow across his exhausted features, then melted away as he moved into shadow again. Sixteen days. It seemed like sixteen years since he'd gone out into the desert to hunt for jackrabbits. Had it only been sixteen days ago? Once again he saw the scene within his mind; it never left. Him scuffing across late afternoon sands, shotgun cradled against his hip, head slowly turning, eyes searching beneath the brim of his hat. Then, moving over the crest of a scrub-grown dune, stopping with a gasp, his eyes staring up at the globe which shimmered like a light immersed in water. His heartbeat jolting, every muscle tensing abruptly at the sight. Approaching then, standing almost below the luminescent sphere that caught the lowering sun rays redly. A gasp tearing backhis lips at the circular cavity appearing on the surface of the globe. And out of the cavity floating -- He'd spun then and run, his breath whistling as he scrambled frantically up the rise again, his boot heels gouging at the sand. Topping the rise, he'd started to run in long, panic-driven strides, the gun held tautly in his right hand, banging against his leg. Then the sound overhead -- like the noise of gas escaping. Wildeyed, he'd looked up over his shoulder. A terrified cry had wrenched his face into a mask of horror. Ten feet over his head, the bulbous glow floated. Merv lunged forward, his legs rising high as he fled. A fetid heat blew across his back. He looked up again with terrified eyes to see the thing descending on him. Seven feet above him -- six -- five -- Merv Ketter skidded to his knees, twisted around, jerked up the shotgun. The silence of the desert was shattered by the blast. A gagging scream ripped from his throat as shot sprayed off the lucent bubble like pebbles off a rubber ball. He felt some of it burrow into his shoulder and arm as he flung over to one side, the gun falling from his nerveless grip. Four feet -- three -- the heat surrounded him, the choking odor made the air swim before his eyes. His arms flung up. "NO!" Once he had jumped into a water hole without looking and been mired on the shallow bottom by hot slime. It felt like that now, only this time the ooze was jumping onto him. His screams were lost in the crawling sheath of gasses and his flailing limbs caught fast in glutinous tissue. Around his terrorfrozen eyes, he saw an agitating gelatine filled with gyrating spangles. Horror pressed at his skull, he felt death sucking at his life. But he didn't die. He inhaled and there was air even though the air was grumous with a stomach-wrenching stench. His lungs labored, he gagged as he breathed. Then something moved in his brain. He tried to twist and tried to scream but he couldn't. It felt like vipers threading through his brain, gnawing with poisoned teeth on tissues of his thought. The serpents coiled and tightened. I could kill yotl now -- the words scalded like acid. The muscle cords beneath his face tensed but even they couldn't move in the putrescent glue. And then more words had formed and were burning, were branding themselves indelibly into his mind. You will get me food. He was still shuddering now, standing before the calendar, staring at the penciled circles. What else could he have done? The question pleaded like a groveling suppliant. The being had picked his mind clean. It knew about his home, his station, his wife, his past. It told him what to do, it left no choice. He had to do it. Would anyone have let themselves die like that if they had an alternative ; would anyone ? Wouldn't anyone have promised the world itself to be freed of that horror? Grim-faced, trembling, he went up the stairs on feeble legs, knowing there would be no sleep, but going anyway. Slumped down on the bed, one shoe off, he stared with lifeless eyes at the floor, at the hooked rug that Elsie had made so long ago. Yes, he'd promised to do what the being had ordered. And the being had sunk the tiny, whirring cone deep into his arm so that he could only escape by cutting open his own flesh and dying. And then the hideous gruel had vomited him onto the desert sands and he had lain there, mute and palsied while the being had raised slowly from the earth. And he had heard in his brain the last warning -- In two days... And it had started, the endless, enervating round of trapping innocent people in order to preserve himself from the fate he knew awaited them. And the horrible thing, the truly horrible thing was that he knew he would do it again. He knew he'd do anything to keep the being away from him. Even if it meant that the woman must -- His mouth tightened. His eyes shut and he sat trembling without control on the bed. What would he do when the couple were gone? What would he do if no one else came to the station? What would he do if the police came checking on the disappearances of eleven people? His shoulders twisted and an anguished sobbing pulsed in his throat. Before he lay down he took a long swallow from the dwindling whiskey bottle. He lay in the darkness, a nerve-scraped coil, waiting, the small pool of heat in his stomach unable to warm the coldness and the emptiness of him. In his arm the cone whirled. J and stood there for a moment, head slumped forward on his chest, panting through clenched teeth, his body heaving with exhausted breath. Every muscle in his back and shoulders and arms ached with throbbing pain. Then he sucked in a rasping breath. "Let's go," he gasped. His arms vibrated as he helped Marian clamber through the window. "Don't make any noise." He could hardly speak he was so tired from the combination of thirst, hunger, heat exhaustion and seemingly endless, muscle-cramped filing. He couldn't get his leg up, he had to go through the rough-edged opening head first, pushing and squirming, feeling splinters jab into his sweat-greased flesh. When he thudded down, the pain of impact ran jaggedly along his extended arms and, for a second, the darkness swam with needles of light. Marian helped him up. "Let's go' he said again, breathlessly and they started to run across the ground toward the front of the house. Abruptly, he grabbed her wrist and jerked her to a halt. "Get those sandals off," he ordered hoarsely. She bent over quickly and unbuckled them. The house was dark as they hurried around the back corner of it and dashed along the side beneath the moon-reflecting windows. Marian winced as her right foot jarred down on a sharp pebble. "Thank God," Les gasped to himself as they reached the front of the house. The car was still there. As they ran toward it, he felt into his back pocket and took out his wallet. His shaking fingers reached into the small change purse and felt the coolness of the extra ignition key. He was sure the other keys wouldn't be in the car. They reached it. "Quick" he gasped and they pulled open the doors and slid in. Les suddenly realized that he was shivering in the chilly night air. He took out the key and fumbled for the ignition slot. They'd left the doors open, planning to close them when the motor started. Les found the slot and slid in the key, then drew in a tense, shuddering breath. If the man had done anything to the motor, they were lost. "Here goes," he murmured and jabbed at the starter button. The motor coughed and turned over once with a groan. Les's throat clicked convulsively, he jerked back his hand and threw an apprehensive look at the dark house. "Oh God, won't it start?" Marian whispered, feeling her legs and arms break out in gooseflesh. "I don't know, I hope it's just cold," he said hurriedly. He caught his breath, then pushed in the button again, pumping at the choke. The motor turned again lethargically. Oh God, he has done something to it! -- the words exploded in Les's mind. He jammed in the button feverishly, his body tense with fear. Why didn't we push it to the main road! -- the new thought came, deepening the lines on his face. "Les!" He felt her hand clutch at his arm and, almost instinctively, his gaze jerked over to the house. A light had flared up at a second story window. "Oh Jesus, start!" he cried in a broken frenzy and pushed at the button with a rigid thumb. The motor coughed into life and a wave of relief covered him. Simultaneously, he and Marian pulled at the doors and slammed them shut while he gunned the engine strongly to get it warm. As he threw the gears into first, the head and trunk of the man appeared in the window. He shouted something but neither '"of them heard of it over the roar of the motor. The car jerked forward and stalled. Les hissed in impotent fury as he jabbed in the button again. The motor caught and he eased up the clutch. The tires bumped over the uneven ground. Upstairs, the man was gone from the window and Marian, her eyes fastened to the house, saw a downstairs light go on. "Hurry!" she begged. The car picked up speed and Les, shoving the gears into second, jerked the car into a tight semicircle. The tires skidded on the hard earth and, as the car headed for the lane, Les threw it into third and jerked at the knob that sent the two headlights splaying out brightly into the darkness. Behind them, something exploded and they both jerked their shoulders forward convulsively as something gouged across the roof with a grating shriek. Les shoved the accelerator to the floor and the car leaped forward, plunging and rocking into the rutted lane. Another shotgun blast tore open the night and half of the back window exploded in a shower of glass splinters. Again, their shoulders twitched violently and Les grunted as a sliver gouged its razor edge across the side of his neck. His hands jerked on the wheel, the car hit a small ditch and almost veered into a bank on the left side of the lane. His fingers tightened convulsively and, with arms braced, he pulled the car back into the center of the lane, crying to Marian, "Where is he?' # Her white face twisted around. "I can't see him!" His throat moved quickly as the car bucked and lurched over the holes, the headlights jerking wildly with each motion. Get to the next town, he thought wildly, tell the sheriff, try and save that other poor devil. His foot pressed down on the pedal as the lane smoothed out. Get to the next town and -- She screamed it. "Look out!" He couldn't stop in time. The hood of the Ford drove splintering into the heavy gate across the lane' and the car jolted to a neckjerking halt. Marian went flailing forward against the dashboard, the side of her head snapping against the windshield. The engine stalled and both headlights smashed out in an instant. Les shoved away from the steering wheel, knocked breathless by the impact. "Honey, quick " he gasped. A choking sob shook in Marian's throat. "My head, my head" Les sat in stunned muteness a moment, staring at her as she twisted her head around in an agony of pain, one hand pressed rigidly to her forehead. Then he shoved open the door at his side and grabbed for her free hand. "Marian, we have to get out of here!" She kept crying helplessly as he almost dragged her from the car and threw his arm around her waist to support her. Behind him, he heard the sound of heavy boots running down the lane and saw, over his shoulder, a bright flashlight eye bobbing as it bore down on them. Marian collapsed at the gate. Les stood there holding her, trembling impotently as the man came running up, a forty-five clutched in his right hand, a flashlight in his left. Les winced at the beam flaring into his eyes. "Back," was all the man said, panting heavily and Les saw the barrel of the gun wave once toward the house. "But my wife is hurt ! # he said, "She hit her head against the windshield. You can't just put her back in a cage ! # "I said get back ! # The man's shout made Les start. "But she can't walk, she's unconscious!" He heard a rasping breath shudder through the man's body and saw that he was stripped to the waist and shivering. "Garry her then," the man said. "But -- " "Shall I blast ya where ya stand!" the man yelled in a frenzied anger. "No. No." Les shook nervously as he lifted up Marian's slack body. The man stepped aside and Les started back up the lane, trying to watch Marian's face and his footing at the same time. "Honey," he whispered, "Marian ? " Her head hung limply over his left forearm, the short blond hair ruffling against her temples and brow as he walked. Tension kept building up in him until he felt like screaming. "Why are you doing this?" he suddenly blurted out over his shoulder. No answer, just the rhythmic slogging of the man's boots over the pocked ground. "How can you do this to anyone?" Les asked brokenly, "Trapping your own kind and giving them to that -- that God only knows what it is!" l Shut up!" But there was more defeat than anger in the man's voice. "Look," Les said suddenly, impulsively, "Let my wife go. Keep me here if you have to but... but let her go. Please ! # The man said nothing and Les bit his lips in frustrated anguish. He looked down at Marian with sick, frightened eyes. "Marian," he said, "Marian . # He shivered violently in the cold night air. The house loomed up bleakly out of the flat darkness of the desert. "For God's sake, don't put her in a cage!" he cried out desperately. "Get back # The man's voice was flat, there was nothing in it, neither promise nor emotion. Les stiffened. If it had been just him, he would have whirled and leaped at the man, he knew it. He the edge of the house again, back toward the cages, toward that thing. But there was Marian. He stepped over the throwndown shotgun on the ground and heard, behind him, the grunt of the man as he bent over and picked it up. I have to get her out of here, he thought, I have to! It happened before he could do anything. He heard the man step up suddenly behind him and then felt a pinprick on his right shoulder. He caught his breath at the sudden sting and turned as quickly as he could, weighed down by Marian's dead limpness. "What are you -- " He couldn't even finish the sentence. It seemed suddenly as if hot, numbing liquors were being hosed through his veins. An immense lassitude covered his limbs and he hardly felt it when the man took Marian from his arms. He stumbled forward a step, the night alive with glittering pinpoints of light. The earth ran like water beneath his feet, his legs turned to rubber. "No" He said it in a lethargic grumble. Then he toppled. And didn't even feel the impact of the ground against his falling body. The belly of the globe was warm . It undulated with a thick and vaporous heat. In the humid dimness, the being rested, its shapeless body quivering with monotonous pulsations of sleep. The being was comfortable, it was content, coiled grotesquely like some cosmic cat before a hearth. For two days. He stirred fitfully and moved his lips as though to speak. But his lips were made of iron. They sagged inertly and he couldn't move them. Only a great forcing of will would raise his leaden eyelids. The cage air fluttered and shimmered with strange convections. His eyes blinked slowly; glazed, uncomprehending eyes. His hands flopped weakly at his sides like dying fish. It was the man in the other cage screaming. The poor devil had come out of his drugged state and was hysterical because he knew. Les's sweat-grimed brow wrinkled slowly, evenly. He could think. His body was like a massive stone, unwieldy and helpless. But, behind its flint, immobile surface, his brain was just as sure. His eyes fell shut. That made it all the more horrible. To know what was coming. To lie there helpless and know what was going to happen to him. He thought he shuddered, but he wasn't sure. That thing, what was it? There was nothing in knowl; edge to construct from, no foundation of rational acceptance to build upon. What he'd seen that night was something beyond all -- What day was it? Where was -- Marian ! It was like rolling a boulder to turn his head. Clicking filled his throat, saliva dribbled unnoticed from the corners of his mouth. Again, he forced his eyes open with a great straining of will. Panic drove knife blades into his brain even though his face changed not at all. Marian wasn't there. She lay, limply drugged, on the bed. He'd laid another cool, wet cloth across her brow, across the welt on her right temple. Now he stood silently, looking down at her. He'd just gotten back from the cages where he'd injected the screaming man again to quiet him. He wondered what was in the drug that being had given him, he wondered what it did to the man. He hoped it made him completely insensible. It was the man's last day. No, it's dumb imagination, he told himself suddenly. She didn't look like Elsie, she didn't look at all like Elsie. It was his mind. He wanted her to look like Elsie, that was what it was. His throat twitched as he swallowed. Stupid. The word slapped dully at his brain. She didn't look like Elsie. For a moment, he let his gaze move once more over the woman's body, at the smooth rise of her bust, the willowy hips, the long, wellformed legs. Marian. That was what the man had called her. Marian. It was a nice name. With an angry twist of his shoulders, he turned away from the bed and strode quickly from the room. What was the matter with him anyway? What did he think he was going to do -- let her go? There had been no sense in taking her into the house the night before last, in putting her in the spare bedroom. No sense in it at all. He couldn't let himself feel sympathy for her, for anyone. If he did, he was lost. That was obvious. As he moved down the steps, he tried to remind himself once more of the horror of being absorbed into that gelatinous mass. He tried to remember the brain-searing terror of it. But, somehow, the memory kept disappearing like wind-blown cloud and he kept thinking instead of the woman. Marian. She did look like Elsie ; the same color hair, the same mouth. No! He'd leave her in the bedroom until the drug wore off. Then he'd put her back in the cage again. It's me or them ! -- he argued furiously with himself. I ain't going to die like that! Not for anyone. He kept arguing with himself all the way down to the station. I must be crazy, he thought, taking her in the house like that, feeling sorry for her. I can't afford it, I can't. She's just two days to me, that's all, just a two-day reprieve from -- The station was empty, silent. Merv braked the truck and got out. His boots crunched over the hot earth as he paced restlessly around the pumps. I can't let her go! he lashed out at himself, his face taut with fury. He shuddered then at the realization that he had been entertaining the thought for two days now. "Why wasn't she a man?" he muttered to himself, fists tight and blood-drained at his sides. He raised his left arm and looked at the reddish lump. Why couldn't he tear it out of his flesh? Why? The car came then. A salesman's car, dusty and hot. As Merv pumped gas in, as he checked the oil and water, he kept glancing from under his hat brim at the hot-faced little man in the linen suit and panama hat. Replace her. Merv wouldn't let the thought out yet he knew it was there. He found himself glancing down at the license plate. Arizona. His face tightened. No. No, he'd always gotten out-of-state cars, it was safer that way. I'll have to let him go, he thought miserably, I'll have to. I can't afford to... But when the little man was reaching into his wallet, Merv felt his hand slide back to his back overall pocket, he felt his fingers tighten over the warm butt of the fortyfive. The little man stared, slackjawed, at the big gun. "What is this?" he asked weakly. Merv didn't tell him. Night brushed its black iced fingers across the moving bubble. Earth flowed beneath its liquid coming. Why was the air so f aint with nourishment , why did the atmosphere press so feebly in? This land, it was a weak, a dying land, its lifeadministering gasses almost spent. Amidst slithering, amidst scouring approach, the being thought of escape. How long now had it been here in this barren place? There was no way of telling for the planet's sun appeared and disappeared with insane rapidity, darkness and light flickering in alternation like the wink of an eye . And, on the ship, the instruments of chronometry were shattered, they were irreparable. There was no context any more, no customed metric to adjust by. The being was lost upon this tenuous void of living rock, unable to do more than forage for its sustenance. Off in the black distance, the dwelling of the planet's animal appeared, grotesquely angular and peaked. It was a stupid animal, this brainless beast incapable of rationality, able only to emit wild squawking cries and flap its tendrils like the night plants of his own world. And its body -- it was too hard with calciumed rigidity, providing scant nutriment, making it necessary for the being to eat twice as often so violent an energy did digestion take. Closer. The clicking grew louder . The animal was there, as usual , lying still upon the ground, its tendrils curled and limp. The being shot out threads of thought and sapped the sluggish juices of thought from the animal. It was a , barbaric place if this was its intelligence. The being heaved closer, swelling and sucking along the wind-swept earth. The animal stirred and deep revulsion quivered in the being's mind. If it were not starving and helpless it could never force itself to absorb this twitching, stiff-ribbed beast. Bubble touched tendril. The being flowed across the animal form and trembled to a stop. Visual cells revealed the animal looking up, distended eyed. Audial cells transferred the wild and strangling noise the dying animal made. Tactile cells absorbed the flimsy agitations of its body. And, in its deepest ce?iter, the being sensed the tireless clicking that emanated from the dark lair where, hidden and shaking, the first animal was -- the animal in whose flaccid tendril was imbedded the location cone. The being ate. And, eating, wondered if there would ever be enough food to keep it alive --  -- for the thousand earth years of its life. He lay slumped across the cage floor, his heartbeat jolting as the man looked in at him. He'd been testing the walls when he heard the slap of the screen door and the sound of the man's boots descending the porch steps. He'd lunged down and rolled over quickly onto his back, trying desperately to remember what position he'd been in while he was still drugged, arranging his hands limply at his sides, drawing up his right leg a little, closing his eyes. The man mustn't know that he was conscious. The man had to open the door without caution. Les forced himself to breathe slowly and evenly even though it made his stomach hurt. The man made no sound as he gazed in. When he opens the lock, Les kept telling himself -- as soon as I hear the door pulled open, I'll jump. His throat moved once as a nervous shudder rippled through him. Gould the man tell he was faking? His muscles tensed, waiting for the sound of the door opening. He had to get away now. There would be no other time. It was coming tonight. Then the sound of the man's boots started away. Abruptly, Les opened his eyes, a look of shocked disbelief contorting his features. The man wasn't going to open the cage! For a long time he lay there, shivering, staring up mutely at the barred window where the man had stood. He felt like crying aloud and beating his fists against the door until they were bruised and bleeding. "No... no" His voice was a lifeless mumble. Finally, he pushed up and got on his knees. Cautiously, he looked over the rim of the window. The man was gone. He crouched back down and went through his pockets again. His wallet -- nothing there to help him. His handkerchief, the stub of pencil, forty-seven cents, his comb. Nothing else. He held the articles in his palms and stared down at them for long moments as if, somehow, they held the answer to his terrible need. There had to be an answer, it was inconceivable that he should actually end up out there on the ground like that other man, put there for that thing to -- "No!" With a spasmodic twitch of his hands, he flung the articles onto the dirt floor of the cage, his lips drawn back in a dull cry of frightened outrage. It can't be real, it has to be a dream! He fell to his knees desperately and once more began running shaking fingers over the sides of the cage, looking for a crack, a weak board, anything. And, while he searched in vain, he tried not to think about the night coming and what the night was going to bring. But that was all he could think about. man's calloused fingers stroked at her hair. Her widened eyes stared at him in horror as he jerked back his hand. "Elsie," he muttered. The whiskey-heavy cloud of his breath poured across her face and she drew back, grimacing, her hands clutching tensely at the bedspread. "Elsie." He said it again, thick voiced, his glazed eyes looking at her drunkenly. The bedspread rustled beneath her as she pushed back further until her back bumped against the wooden headboard. "Elsie, I didn't mean to," the man said, dark blades of hair hanging down over his temples, breath falling hotly from his open mouth, "Elsie, don't... don't be scared of me. "W-where's my husband?" "Elsie, you look like Elsie," the man slurred the words, his bloodstreaked eyes pleading, "You look like Elsie, oh... God , you look like Elsie." "Where's my husband!" His hand clamped over her wrist and she felt herself jerked like a flimsy doll against the man's chest. His stale breath surrounded her. "No" she gasped, her hands pushing at his shoulders. "I love ya, Elsie, I love ya!" "Les!" Her scream rang out in the small room. Her head snapped to the side as the man's big palm drove across her cheek. "He's dead!" the man shouted hoarsely, "It ate him, it ate him! You hear!" She fell back against the headboard, her eyes stark with horror. "No" She didn't even know she'd spoken. The man struggled up to his feet and stood there weaving, looking down at her blank face. "You think I wanted to?" he asked brokenly, a tear dribbling down his beard-darkened cheek, "You think I liked to do it?" A sob shuddered in his chest. "I didn't like to do it. But you don't know, y-you don't know . I was in it, I was in it! Oh God... you don't know what it was like. You don't know!" He sank down heavily on the bed, his head slumped forward, his chest racked with helpless sobs. "I didn't want to. God, do you think I wwanted to?" Her left fist was pressed rigidly against her lips. She couldn't seem to breathe. No. Her mind struggled to disbelieve. No, it's not true, it isn't true. Suddenly, she threw her legs over the side of the bed and stood. Outside, the sun was going down. It doesn't come till dark, her mind argued desperately, not until dark. But how long had she been unconscious? The man looked up with redrimmed eyes. "What are ya doing?" She started running for the door. As she jerked open the door, the man collided with her and the two of them went crashing against the wall. Breath was driven from her body and the ache in her head flared up again. The man clutched at her; she felt his hands running wildly over her chest and shoulders. "Elsie, Elsie..." the man gasped, trying to kiss her again. That was when she saw the heavy pitcher on the table beside them. She hardly felt his tightening fingers, his hard, brutal mouth crushed against hers. Her stretching fingers closed over the pitcher handle, she lifted... Great chunks of the white pottery showered on the floor as the man's cry of pain filled the room. Then Marian was leaning against the wall, gasping for breath and looking down at his crumpled body, at his thick fingers still twitching on the rug. Suddenly her eyes fled to the window. Almost sunset. Abruptly, she ran back to the man and bent over his motionless body. Her shaking fingers felt through his overall pockets until they found the ring of keys. As she fled from the room, she heard the man groan and saw, over her shoulder, the fleeting sight of him turning slowly onto his back. She ran down the hall and jerked open the front door. Dying sunlight flooded the sky with its blood. With a choking gasp, she jumped down the porch steps and ran in desperate, erratic strides around the house, not even feeling the pebbles her feet ran over. She kept looking at the silent row of cages she was running toward. It's not true, it's not true -- the words kept running through her brain -- he lied to me. A sob pulled back her lips. He lied! Darkness was falling like a rapid curtain as she dashed up to the first cage on trembling legs. Empty. Another sob pulsed in her throat. She ran to the next cage. He was lying! Empty. "No" " Les !" "Marian!" He leaped across the cage floor, a sudden wild hope flashing across his face. "Oh, darling" Her voice was a shaking, strengthless murmur, "He told me -- " "Marian, open the cage. Hurry! It's coming " Dread fell over her again, a wave of numbing cold. Her head jerked to the side instinctively, her shocked gaze fled out across the darkening desert. "Marian!" Her hands shook uncontrollably as she tried one of the keys in the lock. It didn't fit. She bit her lip until pain flared up. She tried another key. It didn't fit. "Hurry" "Oh God." She whimpered as her palsied hands inserted another key. That didn't fit. "I can't find the -- " Suddenly, her voice choked off, her breath congealed. In a second, she felt her limbs petrify. In the silence, faintly, a sound of something huge grating, and hissing over the earth. "Oh, no" She looked aside hurriedly, then back at Les again. "It's all right, baby," he said. "All right, don't get excited. There's plenty of time." He drew in a heavy breath. "Try the next key. That's right. No, no, the other one. It's all right now. There. No, that doesn't work. Try the next one." His stomach kept contracting into a tighter, harder knot. The skin of Marian's lower lip broke beneath her teeth. She winced and dropped the key ring. With a gagging whimper, she bent over and snatched it up. Across the desert, the wheezing, squashing sound grew louder. "Oh, Les, I can't, I can't!" "All right, baby," he heard himself say suddenly, "Never mind. Run for the highway." She looked up at him, suddenly expressionless. "What?" "Honey, don't stand there for God's sake!" he cried, "Run!" She caught the breath that shook in her and dug her teeth again into the jagged break on her lip. Her hands stopped shaking and, almost numbed, she tried the next key, the next, while Les stood watching her with terrified eyes, looking over her shoulder toward the desert. "Honey, don't -- " The lock sprang open. With a breathless grunt, Les shoved open the door and grabbed Marian's hand as the lathing sibilance shook in the twilight air. "Run!" he gasped, "Don't look back!" They ran on wildly pumping legs away from the cages, away from the six-foot high mass of quivering life that flopped into the clearing like gelatine dumped from a gargantuan bowl. They tried not to listen, they kept their eyes straight ahead, they ran without breaking their long, panic-driven strides. The car was back in front of the house again, it's front bashed in. They jerked open the doors and slid in frantically. His shaking hand felt the key still in the ignition. He turned it and jabbed in the starter button. "Les, it's coming this way!" The gears ground together with a loud rasp and the car jerked forward. He didn't look behind, he just changed gears and kept pushing down on the accelerator until the car lurched into the lane again. and headed for the town he remembered passing through -- it seemed like years before. He pushed the gas pedal to the floor and the car picked up speed. He couldn't see the road clearly without the headlights but he couldn't keep his foot up, it seemed to jam itself down on the accelerator. The car roared down the darkening road and Les drew in his first easy breath in four days as... the being foamed and rocked across the ground , fury boiling in its tissues . The animal had failed , there was no food waiting , the food had gone. The being slithered in angry circles, searching, its visual cells picking at the ground, its sheathed and luminous formlessness scouring away the flaky dirt. Nothing. The being gurgled like a viscid tide for the house, for the clicking sound in , Merv Ketter's arm jerked spasmodically and he sat up, eyes wide and staring. Pain drove jagged lines of consciousness into his brain -- pain in his head, pain in his arm. The cone was like a burrowing spider there, clawing with razor legs, trying to cut its way out of his flesh. Merv struggled up to his knees, teeth gritted together, eyes clouding with the pain. He had barely gained his feet when the crashing, splintering sound shook the house. He twitched violently, his lower jaw dropping. The digging, gouging fire in his arm increased and, suddenly he knew. With a whining gasp, he leaped into the hall and looked down the dark stairway pit. the being undulated up the stairs , its seventy ingot eyes glowering , its shimmering deformity lurching up toward the animal. Maddened fury hissed and bubbled through its amorphous shape, it flopped and flung itself up the angular steps . The animal turned and fled toward the back steps! -- it was his only chance. He couldn't breathe, air seemed liquid in his lungs. His boot heels hammered down the hall and through the darkness of his bedroom. Behind, he heard the railings buckle and snap as the being reached the second floor, bent itself around into a U-shaped bladder, then threw its sodden form forward again. Merv flung himself down the steep stairway, his palsied hand gripping at the railing, his heartbeat pounding at his chest like mallet blows. He cried out hoarsely as the pain in his arm flared again, almost making him lose consciousness. As he reached the bottomstep, he heard the doorway of his bedroom shattered violently and heard the gushing fury of the being as it heaved and bucked into the backstair doorway and smashed it out to its own size. Below, it heard the pounding of the fleeing animal. Then adhesiveness lost hold and the being went grinding and rolling down the stairway, its seven hundred feelers pricking the casing and scraping at the splintering wood. It hit the bottom step, crushed its huge misshapen bulk through the doorway and boiled across the kitchen floor. In the living room Merv dashed for the mantel. Reaching up, he jerked down the Mauser rifle and whirled as the distended being cascaded its luminescent body through the doorway. The room echoed and rang with sharp explosions as Merv emptied the rifle into the onrushing hulk. The bullets sprayed off its casing impotently and Merv jumped back with a scream of terror, the gun flung from his hands. His outflung arm knocked off the picture of his wife and he heard it shatter on the floor and, in his twisted mind, had the fleeting vision of it lying on the floor, Elsie's face smiling behind jagged glass. Then his hand closed over something hard. And, suddenly, he knew exactly what to do. As the glittering mass reared up and threw its liquidity toward him, Merv jumped to the side. The mantel splintered, the wall cracked open. Then, as the being pulled itself up again and heaved over him, Merv jerked out the pin of the grenade and held it tightly to his chest. Stupid beast! I'll kill you now for -- Tissues exploded , the casing split , the being ran across the floor like slag , a molten torrent of protoplasms. Then silence in the room . The being's minds snuffed out one by one as tenuous atmosphere starved each tissue of its life. The remains trembled slightly, agony flooded through the being's cells and glutinous joints . Thoughts trickled. Vital fluids trickling . Lamp beams giving warmth and life to pulsing matter. Organisms joining, cells dividing, the undulant contents of the food vat swelling , swelling, overpowering. Where are they! Where are the masters who gave me life that I might feed them and never lose my bulk or energy ? And then the being, which was born of tumorous hydroponics, died, having forgotten that it, itself, had eaten the masters as they slept, ingesting, with their bodies, all the knowledge of their minds. ocean telephone cable. Stretched # miles across the ocean floor from Nova Scotia to Newfoundland to Scotland it will be another step in bringing the New World and the Old together. In terms of time New York and London will be a mere ##ths of a second apart. Plans call for two cables laid about ten miles apart and able to carry as many as # separate conversations simultaneously. Yet the cable itself will be no thicker than an ordinary lead pencil. Three miles down on the ocean floor the cable will be impervious to the atmospheric conditions that now wreak havoc with radiotelephonic communication. Jamming will be impossible, and the danger of having enemy agents hear secret messages will also be obviated. Since the exact location of the cable will be a security secret, tapping the line or cutting it will scarcely be possible without detection. Our citation of the month goes to the combined international effort that has made this # year old dream possible; and to the American Telephone and Telegraph Co., the British Post Office, and the Canadian Overseas Telecommunication Corporation who have combined their skill and resources for this project. The atomic and hydrogen bombs are getting most of the headlines but the really big news -- the good news of our atomic age for the average citizen -- is being quietly made in the laboratories of industry and health throughout America... An IF Fact Article By M. T. Kay something of a dilemma. A spanking new house they had put up had sprung a leak -- not a simple roof leak but a hidden one in the heating system buried in the concrete floor. Somewhere in the maze of pipes, buried in tons of rock-hard concrete, the boiler was losing a gallon of hot water every ten minutes. "I can't understand it," one of the contractors said. "We tested that whole system before the cement was poured." The other viewed the situation hopelessly. "Well, that's where it is. So we just start riping up the tile. Maybe we can find a wet spot." "And if you don't?" "Then we'll just have to rip the whole floor out!" Ripping up the thick concrete floor would have added thousands to the cost, which would have been out of their own pockets, and the owner would have been delayed another month or so before he could move in. But, fortunately. That wasn't the way the contractors had to solve their problem. Before the wrecking crew arrived, their problem became known to a firm of nuclear engineers who recommended the use of radioactive isotopes in pin-pointing the leak. The nuclear engineers put a small amount of the radioactive substance in the water of the heating system. Then it was circulated through the piping in the cement. A geiger counter would have gone crazy in that house. After a few minutes, the system was drained and the piping flushed. Now a geiger counter found only one hot spot, the concrete at the point where the water was seeping into the cement. Only a couple feet of concrete had to be chipped out. Without the use of this isotope hundreds of feet of flooring might have been ruined before the leak had been found. The owners moved in on time and the contractors saved a lot of money. The atomic age is here. Big job or little job, in every phase of life, it's helping everybody toward an easier existence. Even the "con" man has entered the field. Reports are already coming in of sharp operators taking advantage of the public's gullibility to pass off photographic film as a detector for Uranium prospecting. Our new atomic age started when a small group of men tried to identify the atoms, the building blocks of nature. They found oxygen, nitrogen, silicon, chlorine and the other elements. Then they started putting them back together to give us textiles, cleaning compounds and new foods. From the ninetythree basic elements they have built over pounds. Science was coming to a standstill when Becquerel discovered radioactivity and called the rays that were coming out of the atoms "Becquerel Rays". Later, when Rutherford found that there were three kinds of rays in the "Becquerel Rays", his assistant suggested calling them the "A, B, and G Rays". "What?" Rutherford snorted. 'Alpha, Beta, and Gamma Rays' ". And so the Greek curtain was pulled down over radioactivity. You understand why, of course. Anything new has to be made mysterious. If it isn't, people won't appreciate your discovery. There was power in those radioactive materials. Those early experimenters could feel it. Radioactive materials were warm to the touch. Immediately, they envisioned it as a fuel and tried to speed up the reaction. They heated it, cooled it, chopped it up, tried catalysts, but none of their chemical tricks worked. Nature went along in her own unhurried way; man just couldn't push her. Then they began to realize that there were different kinds of atoms in the elements. There was a radioactive carbon atom and a stable type. The atoms that were radioactive were changing into atoms of a different element. Man tried his hand at duplicating nature's feat and built expensive machines to transmute the elements. Before #, though, you could put all the atoms man had changed into a thimble, and all the entries in the economic ledger were red. The discovery of the chain reaction brought the reactor into being. High density neutron beams in the reactor were more powerful than anything man or nature could make -- and the race to make new atoms was on. Nowadays you can get just about any of the known atoms you want. In most cases, they are not exorbitantly expensive. Standard samples can be had for experimental purposes for a reasonable price. But there are still more kinds of atoms that are needed. We need a good radioactive oxygen atom. It would help biologists trace the path of water and carbon dioxide through the plants. The plants can make sugar out of water, sunlight, and carbon dioxide. Man would like to know how they do it. If we knew we would not be dependant on nature for all our food. From the sugar you can make alcohol too, and then you wouldn't have to worry about the oil fields running dry either. Making sugar isn't the only dream the scientists have... They want to know how our bodies put sulphur, phosphor, calcium, and iron together to make living cells. This could mean new legs for the cripple, new eyes for the blind, new ears for the deaf, new teeth for the toothless. Most of the lower forms of life can rebuild lost and damaged parts of their bodies. Somehow, for higher forms of life, this was lost in evolution. If enough is known about how our bodies live, some genius may come along to find out how to restore this miracle to us. mand it from science, you will get it. Our grandfathers demanded faster ships and we got our ocean liners. They demanded greater longevity and we got that too. In Caesar's day, a man of thirty was old. Now a man of thirty is just getting started. You demand it -- science will give it to you. It takes a genius to make sugar or to discover a way to help our bodies grow new limbs, but the ordinary man can use these tools too. For many years men have , been stationed in the mountains to measure the depths of the snowbanks. This information is needed. If the snowfall is light, the dams have to hold all the water that comes down in the spring for next summer's crops. If the snowfall is heavy, the water level in the dams most be lowered to provide the capacity necessary for controlling the spring floods. These men were lost to us for the most part of a year. They could have been employed in industry, building cars, houses, appliances, etc. Now the atomic age has released these men. Instead of man power, a new machine measures the snowfall in the mountains. It has a small piece of radioactive cobalt buried in the ground and a counter hangs in the air over it. The radiation detected by the counter is proportional to the amount of ice and snow between it and the cobalt. The reading of the counter is relayed by radio to civilization. Each new machine of the atomic age can be evaluated by estimating the number of man-hours saved or by the reduction in price of a product. If it does one of these two things, our standard of living goes up. A new drug is being prepared for the market. How good is it? How fast does your body absorb it? How much is used? How much lost? Radioactive tracers give the manufacturer the answer. The original drug may have been a calcate in the laboratory, but the atomic age tells the maker to use the sulphite form. The result is a better product for you. A large chemical plant may be making dyes, and successfully too. Their product is selling. The plant is operating five days a week. But are they as economical as they really can be? Are they working depleted chemicals too long? Should the reaction be kept at #F or at #F? Radioactive tracers can f ive the management the answer. 'art of the savings in cost can go into higher wages for the workers. This is the kind of wage increase that does not lead to inflation. These things, more than the atom bomb, will affect your life in the years to come. They have already made their influence felt. It may be a while before we get back the poured into the program, but the dividends are trickling in. Don't say, "I'm a salesman, this isn't going to affect me." Four years ago that man in the mountains who measured snowdrifts probably felt that he was the last person the atomic age would reach. All of us are being nudged and pushed by the new era. Sometimes you can trip over a pot of gold, as was the case in electroplating companies who found that the water in their vats became rich in heavy hydrogen, and heavy hydrogen brings a good price these days. You might lose your job in the new times at hand. Impersonal people call this "economic adjustment". In this case you've just stubbed your toe. But whether you're picking up the gold or nursing a sore toe, you can look to a different and better life in the atomic future. other of Winston Marks' entertaining yarns entitled Test Colony, ; a new novelette about a native of space named "Joe" who be; came the "father of his country"... And, if you are ever worried over your efficiency, read James McKimmey's Confidence Game and rest easy! You won't find a better tale to illustrate that old adage about "enough being enough"... E. G. Von Wald, who  has a rare touch for satire, presents another chuckle-provoking short story about a day when people who cooperate ( even biologically!) are unlawful. It's called World Without War... Plus '  Robert Sheckley's The Battle, Dave Dryfoos' Waste Not, Want,  ' Fox B. Holden's Gift for Terra, R. E. Banks' The Work-out  Planet, and other stories and features that, as usual, provide the   best in science fiction entertainment. Ask your newsdealer to save you a copy of IF every month! rock using an intense heat, the flame being similar to that of an acetylene torch. Many of the Moon's minerals are expected to be akin to those of Earth, but scientists anticipate some of which we have never heard. All samples dug up, or burned out, will be taken to the laboratory in the reconnaissance ship to be analysed and studied before any attempt is made to mine them on a large scale. Science Fiction Magazine" M is the growing-est scion trial! If you do not enjoy every ence fiction magazine in minute of it, just let us know and America because every we will refund your money at once! issue sparkles with new II you DO like it (which we. are ideas and entertainment!... The sure you will) we will send you the finest fiction and features by the next # issues fresh of! the press -- finest writers!... The best artwork which means you get # issues in all by the best artists!... The finest for the regular # subscription paper and the finest printing by price, saving you #! Mail the where are calling it "America's most interesting science fiction magazine"... But why not see for yourself? You risk nothing! We will send you -- All you have to do is mail the handy subscription form below. We will then send you your first issue at once -- IF Magazine, Kingston, New York Enclosed find # (check or money order) for which please send me IF Magazine for the next # months. It is understood that the first issue is a know and you will return the full subscription price at once! Only # money back uuaranteed  By Winston Marks build atomic plants similar to the above. Much cheaper to operate than standard plants, the atom pile will turn water into steam which will operate giant generators producing tremendous amounts of electricity. Current obstacle s thot plant must be perfectly built -- never any repairs' -- because deodly rays prevent anyorse from entering after it is pul into operation. Breokdown would force complete abandonment of plant ( u "You can slop worrying. Jane. My job's secure now! And here's the insurance policy to prove il -- my I.C.S. diploma!" Tbit feelinf of security U probably typical of every I.C.S. graduate. Bccaute-'as ibe job ailoation gels lighter, the mau with I.C.S. training bat the advantage. 'hy? Your I.C.S. diploma telU your prescQl employer three ixn portant things: U) You want to make the most of your present job. (#) You have the training you need (or advancenient. (#) You look for belter ways of doing tbiiigH on yoitr vnii. What you do about your fu ami May at your present job iil the some old pay. Or i'nni on I.C.S. diplomn in oiir Kpim lime fur accuritr pronutlitntt morr pnyl Your lirAt sl'p is to mark the course that inlereslH you in the coupon below, ami mail it to us. Free books Wc'll send you two inicresting books. Tlic first, "How to Sue ceed is a gold mine of helpful iip. Points out many small things in your personality and behavior that can make the difference be tween success and failure. The second book telU you about the opportunities in the field of your choice. Costs ponnJes o doy Mmm ail l.( ludrnt has mtdo iii the coil of Ills couise in one month with liir a)u(y increase his l.t luiihinr, f'ninrij fur him. Bt ilmlviciK M iii your pare iim'. oii pijv yotiMcl! many times un loiin mote iltaii yon'ri now in.ikmc. (Oiir hiudcnt irpurls "My touiMf wu'i wutllt # on liuui (u lilt'.") The accurtly of )our pres ml job-Hr lh' miiccchs ill find ing the new job you've always wanicit -- in in our liundi. Move ahead with I. C. S. training routine, small-pay jobs. Re fuenibcr. our first step to security and success is to mail this coupon. Take a few minutes and do it nose. If you put it off It can cost you your future. Por Real Job Security -- Get I. C. S. Training! f.C. S. Scranton #, Pennu coNsraucTioN  ArchaKtsrt g Suildini ConirMtor Suildirg Miinlstiincs Q Ctpntr and Mltl ivoik O tltinulirti O HmM( O flumbmi  aMiBArch Biuopiints O SUirntittmi Airr D CsrtoMuu # Art S rnhion litkrtlritini AitcitM i CrMina MacSaBK O Civil Entinaarmi AJ.tfTOind  NtflMi BooUaaplniardAcrMnlinl G Raadmi SIriKt Bluapnnlt flutinan AdmmivIrKicn D Banibiv Ervuinieiint Butinait Coiraipondarcf O Slruclutil EtiKiniirinB G Swfvajimi ind Mippinp B AircnK Oratliof AfcJiitKlural #rfin G Machinical Oioltifig  Cadilitd Public Accountjni P Ivdurit ri P lullur wiaini IfTMrevamurt L'i ONic Miniamon( ( ParlMl litt o #I eaiirm OForamanship   Indinfriil SuparviticA  O Laadtonip and Orpnintiua Q O Prtannl labar Rauliaaa  O Gai -- Ctaciric Walding O O Hast Trialmanl H Malalturfa  O ftttai' Buonuti Manaiemant G Mina Suivafini and Mappini  Aula Body RabuiMad S Aula-Enina twoa Up Aatamebila MtcKaatc  Sain Mamiarvitnl a Startoarapnic.SacfttMtal Q TiaBir Manafmnl G Analylical Chamiilry ' linaaiini hrwian  Caoaral Chamitlry U Aalv'al Cat Piad # frarn. n Putrotaum In(rnarai  Pltitifi  Putp and Papar Kakini R n Chamlcat InSiIitl Q  Sktichini and Paintiiit Q CAam lab luchriKian Q O Sbtp Diailt'ii  Sl'uKliirai Orattins O Eiadical Eniinaafinf Elacirical Mamlananca Dacliician DCaMractmi Lintman g Cornewrial rnd EninA O Hib Schgol SubiacU O Matiwiialan  InduUnal Suparviyion Q WKinna Davir-Oiaftini  Wichma Shop Inipecliun  MKhitit Shop Piadaa D Mathncjl (niinaaring C Qwi'ty CoartraJ O Raading Shop StHtpi.nU  Ramifrahofl G Shaal MuUl Waikai C tiacbooKf C Practical Sadio-TV (np'i  Radio lad TV StrKin G Radio Opnatmc  TattviiKifl-TacJinxian AirSial-at Qlnator Smal leconeiivf locomoli# Eniftaar Sarlan rramart Coitituillon tiiRinauiini Eiaclii liM and Poatt S'al'onaiy rifaman Stjiiunary Staam Cninaarifl I'aidmc and Spinnnl Collun, Rayon, Wuolan Ml. Finithini and Oyamf loom rtiin( Taalila Druinlhf Warpinj and Waavinf OoffiaiiK RH'itoiUiOfi Watina I nimoarind Oc aan Ntvplion Shipfrllinc Short ShXy Sit ilinf Talaphony tillOmwi Canadian raardanti md coupon to Inlanutional CoriatporafKa ScheoH. Canadtas. LM... lasa... Ssacral tuilMe ralfi to mambara al too U. V ArmaS farcai f i AH Stories New and Complete Cover by Max Reach: A scene from "The Test Colony" D P by Arthur Dekker Savage # IF ii published monthly by Quinn Publishing Ckimpnny, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publuhing Co., liic. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Bunalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription .# for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appear ing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coinciaental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Nrxt issue on sale August lOtb you're chat man. here's someching that will interesc you. Noc a magic formula -- noc a gec-rich-quick scheme -- but someching more subsunciai. more practical. Of course, you need someching more than just the desire to be an accouncam. You've got to pay Still, wouldn't it be worth your while to sacri hce some of your leisure in favor of interesting home study -- over a comparatively brief period.-' Always provided that the rewards were good -- a salary of # to #:' An accountant's duties are interesting, varied and of real worth to his employers. He has Do you fee! that such things aren't for you.' Veil, don't be too sure. Very possibly they can be! Why noc, tike so many before you. investigate LaSalle's modern Problem Method of training for an accountancy, position? Just suppose you were permitted to work in a large accounting house under the personal supervision of an expert accountant. Suppose, with his aid. you studied accounting principles and solved problems day by day -- easy ones at first -- then more ditficulc ones. If you could do this -- and could turn to him for advice as the problems became complex -- soon you'd master them all. That's the training you follow in principle under the LaSalle Problem Method. You cover accountancy from the basic Principles right up through Accountancy Systems arid Income Tax Procedure. Then you add C. P. A. Training and prepare for the C. P. iv examinations. As you go along, you absorb the principles of Audicifig, Cose Accoimtiag Business Law, Seatiscical Control, Organization, Management and Fi nance. Your progress is as speedy as you care to make it -- depending on your own eagerness to learn and the time you spend in study. Will recognition come? The only answer, as you know, is that success dna come to the man who is really trained. It's possible your employers will notice your improvement in a very few weeks or months. Indeed, many LaSalle graduates have paid for tlicir training -- with increased earnings -- before they have completed it! For accountants, who are triined in organization and management, are the executives of the future. Sand For Free Sample Lesion For your ox's good, get ail the faas. Write for our free #-page book. "Accoumaacy, 'The Professioo That Pays" -- also the free sample lesson so you can prove to yourself chat you can master accountancy quickly, tboroly in spare time ai borne. Ovor # Cortllled Public Accountant among LoSotlo alumni A Corfspondencm Institution Send me without obligation. Free Sample Lesson and  Accountancy, The Profession That Pays." Nam Aft Addrm OOt#o# O Suer... science fiction-wise, of course -- authors and experts have conceived a multitude of shapes for the space ship. They have been conical, eggshaped, tubular, spherical and cubicle, while the most popular conception has been that of a rocket, or torpedoc, with fins of varying size and design. In the March, #, issue of The Sooner Magazine, published at the University of Oklahoma, there appeared an article entitled "The Sky's No Limit", by Dwight V. Swain, professor' of journalism and a former science fiction writer, in which the space ship is envisioned as follows: "A sphere of dully gleaming metal some fifty feet in diameter, it rests on stubby, retractable legs... Carriers speed to and fro from refrigerated warehouses, carrying cargo to the conveyor lift built into the ship's base... The cargo is aboard -- ... the dozen-odd crewmen at their stations, the hatches sealed. The sphere floats for a moment, barely off the ground, while the stubby stabilizing legs retract. Then, slowly at first (in order to avoid the heat of atmospheric friction), it soars into the sky. No one knows for sure how fast it can go. In theory, gravity acts instantaneously, and even the electro-magnetic waves that carry power travel at up to # miles per second..." cerpt from Mr. Swain's article which we ran in the September, #, issue of IF, and we waited almost a year before we got a letter which came out emphatically in favor of the sphere. Here it is -- from Mr. L. W. Walton, of Bucks, England, who read it in the English edition of IF. Sir: It is a pity that most science fiction writers cannot get away from the V# idea, a most unsuitable form of space ship not likely ever to be of practical use in space travel. From considerations of every aspect, serious space travel is not likely to be achieved until gravity is understood and when nuclear energy is available in controllable amounts from light-weight, compact apparatus. The super-streamlined, tailfinned, pusher-rocket driven space ship (V# kind) cannot ever be a practical solution of space travel. It is thoroughly unsafe in take off and more so in landing because it is nose heavy and therefore "ground seeking"; the idea of landing by standing on its jets is scaring, violent unstable wobbles could not be avoided. It would be much better to have not less than three tractor rockets instead of trail rockets, fins with their weight and atmospheric drag could then be discarded. The center of thrust in front of or at the center of gravity is much better than behind the latter. But the thing that kills the rocket as a means of space travel is the formidable load of jettisonable matter that must be carried whatever the source of energy may be, even if it is atomic. The spherical form of space ship has a higher strength-weight ratio and relative volumetric capacity than a torpedo form, and apart from the lowest levels of the atmosphere, say about # miles, it is not at any disadvantage. In fact, within that # miles velocity must be low so streamlining has no real advantage. In landing, the spherical form is greatly superior, whilst the torpedo form is positively dangerous. The spherical form can take off from and land in water -- the torpedo form could not; it could also berth in and take off from mud or dust, snow or frozen gases, in all cases with perfect stability. Swain, in the article referred to... speaks of a "contragravitational device" and though an oar is such a device it is obvious that he means some device which directly counteracts gravity shields after H. G. Wells. I agree with Swain on this point, and that is after some # years study of the problems of space travel. On the other hand, Swain's "wireless power transmission" and "transmutational duplicator" can be dismissed as outside of practical science, i.e., they are pure fantasy. Nuclear energy is apparently the only solution for space ships... regeneration of oxygen, water, carbohydrates, proteins, vitamins and body minerals, though most desirable, is not absolutely necessary but given nuclear energy such regeneration is a reasonable scientific probability. With nuclear cnergx' and regeneration as above described and some means of directly distorting a gravitational field, space travel would not only be a practical but also a coininerclal success -- for the amount and weight of fuel and supplies of air, water and food required would be vers' small and possible payload high. It is refreshing to find a science fiction writer having some scientific logic, as Swain has, and science fiction would be much more entertaining if fantasy was barred. In present science fiction it is irritating to bump into scientific absurdities such as time travel, hyperdrive, space warps, telepaths, etc., etc. -- Yours faithfully L. W. Walton I disagree w'ith Mr. Walton when he says time travel or telepathy is a scientific absurdity, but I do agree with him in regard to his ideas on space travel. Also, let's not forget that everything we know today rested in our imagination before it ever got to the drawing board. And isn't imagination itself real?... Anyhow, what do you think? -- jlq Benson did his best to keep his colony from going native, but what can you do when the Natives have a rare human intelligence and know all about the facts of life? arrival. Our fellow members of the "test colony" were back in the clearing at the edge of the lake, getting their ground-legs and drinking in the sweet, clean air of Sirius Benson, leader of our group, sniffing the spicy perfume of the forest that crowded within twenty feet of the water's edge. Sirius shone with an artificially white glow. Somewhere on the horizdn. Earth lay, an invisible, remote speck of dust we had forsaken # dreary, claustrophobic months ago. The trip had taken its toll from all of us, even tough-minded Phil Benson. We both found it difficult to relax and enjoy the invigorating, oxygen-rich air and the balmy climate. A.S official recorder, I was trying to think of words suitable to capture the magnificence, the sheer loveliness of the planet which would be our home for at least four years, perhaps forever. Each absorbed in his own thoughts, Benson and I were some # yards from the clearing when he stopped me with a hand on my arm. "Who is that?" he demanded. Up the beach where he pwinted, two naked forms emerged from the calm waters. They skipped across the sand and began rolling together UlustTottd by Kelly Fretu playfully in the soft grasses at the forest's edge. Even at this distance they were visibly male and female. "I can't make them out," I said. My only thought was that one of the young coii)l-s liatl swum down ahead of us and was enjoying the first privacy attain.ible in two years. Benson's eyes were sharper. "Sam, they -- they look like -- " Our voices must have reached them, for they sprang apart and rose to their feet facing us. "Like youngsters," I supplied. "We have no kids with us," Benson reminded me. He began to move forward, slowly, as though stalking a wild animal. "Wait, Phil," I said. "The planet is uninhabited. They can't be -- " He continued shuffling ahead, and I followed. Within # paces I knew he was right. Whoever they were they hadn't come with us! Benson stopped so quickly I bumped into him. "Look, Sam! Their hands and feet! Four digits and -- no thumbs!" I could now make out the details. The two forms were not quite human. The toes were long and prehensile. The fingers, too, were exceptionally long, appearing to have an extra joint, but as Benson mentioned, there was no opposing thumb. They stood well apart now, the female seeking no protection from the male. Curiosity was written in their faces, and when we stopped advancing they began edging forward until they were only five yards away. Their outlines, instead of becoming clearer, had fuzzed up more as they approached. Now it was evident that their bodies were lightly covered with a silky hair, some two or three inches long. It had already dried out in the warm sun and was standing out away from their skins like golden haloes. They stood well under five feet tall, and in every detail, except the body hair and digits, appeared to be miniature adults, complete with navels. Even in the midst of the shock of surprise, I was taken by their remarkable beauty. "They're true mammals!" I exclaimed. "Without a doubt," Benson said, eyeing tlie full contours of the litlie little female. Her pink flesh tones were a full shade lighter than those of the male. Both had well-spaced eyes under broad foreheads. Their fine features were drawn into fearless, half-quizzical, half-good-natured exprc-ssions of deep interest. They sto relaxed as if waiting for a parley to begin. "This," said Benson, "is one hell of a note!" They cocked their heads at the sound like robins. I said, "Why? They don't appear very vicious to me." "Neither does man," Benson replied. "It's his brain that makes him deadly. Look at those skulls, the car placement, the eyes and forehead. If I know my skull formations, I think man has met his intellectual equal at last -- maybe, even, his superior." "What makes you think they may have sujxrrior minds?" As a psychologist I felt Benson was jumping to a pretty quick conclusion. "The atmosphere. Forty percent oxygen. Invariably, on other planets, that has meant higher metabolisms in the fauna. In a humanoid animal that strongly implies high mental as well as physical activity. As if to prove his point, the two little creatures tired of the one-sided interview, bent slightly at the knees and leaped at a forty-five degree angle high into the tree branches. The female caught the first limb with her long fingers and swung out of sight into the foliage. The male hung by his long toes for a moment, regarding us with an inverted impish expression, then he, too, vanished. I grunted with disap(xintment. Benson said, "Don't worry, they'll be back. Soon enough." A S WE returned to the clearing Jane Btmson and Susan, my wife, came to meet us. Although both brunettes rated high in feminine charms among the forty women of our group, somehow they appeared a little ungainly and uncommonly tall against my mental image of the little ptcople we had just left. sTheir faces were pale from the long intennent in the ship, and bright spots of sunburn on cheekbones and forehead gave them a clownish, made-up appearance. "We've sorted and identified the fruits," Sue culled to us. "The handbook is right. They're delicious! We've got a fea.st spread. Just wait until you -- " She caught our expressions. "What's wrong?" Benson shrugged. "You girls go on ahead and get the crowd together. I have an imprortant announcement to make." Jane pouted a little and hesitated, but Benson insisted. "Run along now, please. I want to gather my thoughts." We trailed after them slowly. I didn't like Benson's moody reaction to our discovery of an intelligent life-form. To me it was exciting. What fabulous news I would have to send back with the first liason ship to contact ns four years hence! And it would be entirely unexpected. hecauM the original e.xplonitioii party h.id failed to make the di.scovery. That in itself was an intriguing mystery. How could twenty-two s'ientists, Ix-nt on a minute examination of ,i planet's flora and fauna, overltHik the most fabulous creation of all an animal virtually in men's image? The only guess I could make was that they must belong to a nomadic tribe small enough to escape discovery. Benson broke silence as the narrow beach strip began to widen into tile grassy plain where our ship squatted like a hemispherical cathedral. "This poses so many problems," he said shaking his head. I said, "Phil, I think you're taking your job too seriously. You ju.st can't plan every detail of organizing our community down to the rationing of tooth-powder." "Planning never hurt any project," Benson said. "I disagree," I told him. "You've had too long to dwell on your plans. Now the first unpredictable incident throws you into an uproar. Relax, Phil. Take your problems one at a time. We don't even know that we'll ever sec the little creatures again. Maybe they're shy." He scarcely heard me. He was a large, well-muscled man of # years, an ex-college president and an able administrator. He and Jane, his wife, were the only two of our party older tlian die #-year age limit. His background as a sociologist and anthropologist and his greater maturity were important factors in stabilizing a new colony, but his point of view had grown excessively conservative, it seemed to me. A crew of craftsmen with their busy little power saws had constructed a sloping ship's ramp of rough planks sawed from the nearest trees. We stepped through and over the assembled people who were lying around in the grass at the base of the ramp, and Benson mounted twenty feet above us at the entrance to the ship. Everyone was in high spirits, and a light cheer, rippled through the assembly. Benson, however, ignored it and bent a thoroughly serious gaze out over his "flock". "Please give me your closest attention," he began and waited until everyone was quiet. "Until further notice, we must jirocced under a yellow alert during daylight hours and a red alert at night. All work parties leaving the ship will check with the scribe every hour on the hour. We will resume sleeping in the ship. Women arc restricted to within # yards of the ship at all times. Men will go armed and will please inform themselves of their position on the security watch list which will be posted tonight." He squinted in the bright sunlight. "For the moment, you men with sidearms, post your.scKcs around the ship. Sound olf loud if you sight anything larger than a rabbit." The men named got slowly to their feet, fingering their light hunting pistols self-consciously. Benson continued, "You may appreciate these precautions when I tell you that Sam Rogers and I just encountered two remarkably humanoid animals on the beach less than half a mile from here." Tension replaced levity, as Benson described our meeting with the natives. I thought he gave it a needlessly grim emphasis with such terms as, "quicker than cats", and "devilishly intelligcnl" , but I held my peace. He summarized, "I do not want to alarm anyone unduly, but we must face up to the fact that we are totally unprepared for such a contingency. The exploration group failed us badly in overlooking these creatures. They may not be inimical to our culture, but until this is established we must consider them prime threats. That is all," he concluded. No one grumbled aloud, but their faces showed keen disappointment at the resumption of quartering in the ship. Reluctantly, the women began rolling up the stilldellated air-mattresses that were scattered about the soft, deep grass. Sue complained, "Sam, if these people don't get a little privacy pretty soon we'll turn into an ant colony. There'll be lovin' in the streets." "It's not my idea," I said. "I'll be nailed to a table at the foot of the ramp all day making check marks. Phil is taking this entirely too big. The little people are really charming. He neglected to mention that they are beautifully formed and quite gentle in theirtheir actions." "Actions?" she said. "What happened, really?" I described the conditions under which we first .saw the natives, and he laughed a little strainedly. "I can just imagine the look on Phil Benson's face." I knew what she meant. In trying to enforce the shipboard rule of segregation of the sexes, our leader had dcvelopxid an oversensitive attitude toward certain aspects of modesty. In the unutterable boredom of space, the pledge we had all taken to complete continence for the voyage was a severe test to all forty couples. Had propriety and space considerations been the only reasons for the infamous "no-romance" regulation, it would never have held up. But all concerned realized the problem of childbirth in space under the jam-packed living conditions, tight wter and food rationing and the fetid, recirculated air. Now the second honeyTnoons were over before they started. It was back to the ship and the nightlife of monks and nuns. That night. Sue and I joined the four ship's officers, their wives, navigation cupola atop our doomed ship that had become a "fortress". The small control room was the only semi-private room in the ship, and even Benson was admitted by invitation only. The meeting was a council of war, so to speak, and the officers were pressed into service to organize and ojjerate the security guard. When the guard watch was worked out for a week in advance, I spoke up. "I think we're getting off on the wrong foot, Phil. We can't stay penned up like animals at night and expect to function as humans." Benson argued: "We are a carefully balanced group, Sam. We can't afford casualties. Look at our medical corps, two doctors and four nurses. Suppose we were attacked and lost them?" Captain Spooner, whose authority had lapsed when we touched down, backed up Benson. "I see no great hardship in the precautions. Inconvenience, yes, but nothing that the danger doesn't fully justify." He was a cocky, virile, baldheaded little terrier of # years. His very young wife and the wives of the other three officers seenied only lightly perturbed at the prospects of continuing celibacy, which confirmed my suspicions. I said, "That's gritty of you. Captain, but remember, the rest of us haven't had the relative privacy of the bridge. If this restriction continues long I predict violations of the discipline, and probably some serious behaviour problems." My position as colony psychologist had become somewhat obscured under the snowstorm of paperwork tliat my sccondai-y job as official scribe had brought. Benson seemed now to recall that mental health was my concern. He said, "I thought you reported high morale upon arrival." "I did, but the terrsions are there, and it's foolish to draw them too tightly. We have a well-picked, highly adaptable group of people. Let's keep them that way. The quicker we hit a more nonnal existence the less risk we run of emotional disturbances." "They'll take it," Benson said positively, and Spooner nodded in arrogant agreement. Reared to the shorter rotation one hour before noon, when the Women began undressing. Tln-re had been an air of conspiracy among them all morning, a studied casualncss as they wandered aroimd near the ship, forming small conversational eddies, dispersing and reforming elsewhere. I had just finished checking in the ll-man fruit-gathering detail. I looked up from my roster in time to sec the first motions of the "great disrobing". Zippers unzipped, snaps popped open, slacks, skirts, blouses and jumpers fell to the grass, and a dazzling spectacle of spacc-bicached feminine epidermis burst into view. The ladies were very calm about It, but a chorus of yips sounded and swelled into a circus of cheers from the male working parties. Before I could fathom it Benson came charging down the ramp followed by his fruit-stowing detail. He stopped at the foot of the ramp, mouth open and eyes pinched with annoyance. He spotted Jane and Sue. "What is going on out here?" he demanded loudly. Our two wives waved at us and strolled over, doing a splendid job of acting unconcerned. "Just a little sun-bathing," Jane said, shooing a small insect from a pale shoulder. Susan refused to meet my eye. She was watching two birds soar overhead. "It's fantastic," she said. "If you don't look at things too closely, you'd never know we weren't at a summer camp up in Wisconsin -- except for the fruits. They remind me more of Tahiti. It's marvelous! The mosquitoes f don't even bite." "They will," I said, "as soon as they get a good taste of human blood. And baby, you're sure making it easy for them." Benson was distracted from the conversation by the converging male colonists, who were whooping and yelling like a horde of school boys. He backed up the ramp and ordered, "Let's get on with the work. You'c seen your wives in the altogether before." The men quieted a little, but one yelled, "Yeah, but not lately!" Another added, "And not all together." In spite of the fact that nude sun-bathing was a commonplace, twenty-second-century custom on Earth, by tacit consent clothes had been worn at all times aboard ship. The women had gone along with Benson for two years on such matters, so this was clearly a feminine protest against the spirit of the yellow alert. Young doctors Sorenson and Bailey came trotting up, grinning appreciatively but wagging their fingers. Without consulting Benson, Bailey mounted the ramp and shouted, "Blondes and redheads, ten minutes exposure. Brunettes, fifteen." A great booing issued from the men, but Bailey held up his hand for silence. "The medical staff will make no effort to enforce these exposure maximums, but be advised that the radiation here is about the same as Miami Beach in June, so don't let the air-conditioning fool you." Benson was spared further decisions on the issue, because at that moment one of the sentries remembered to take a quick look at the vector of forest he vas supposed to be guarding. Unable to make his voice heard over the hub-hub, the guard fired his pistol in the air. We all jumped up and stared, and Benson muttered, "Dear God!" Our people were f cattered over an acre around the ramp, and encompassing them was a semi-circle of at least a hundred "savages", frozen like bronze statues at the sound of tlic gun-shot. They curved in an arc less than a hundred yards from the ship. Their hands were empty of weapons, and their motionless attitudes were in no way threatening. To the contrary, they seemed small and quite inoffensive e.xcept for their numbers. Acting in my capacity as p.sychologist, I ran up the ramp and called out as calmly as a shout would permit, "Ever'body take it easy! Don't make any quick moves. Above all, don't anyone fire off a weapon again unless there is an obvious attack." Benson clutched my arm. "Are you mad? We've got to get the women inside." "That's what I'm thinking," I said. "But if we invite attack by running they won't all make it." "They aren't armed. The men can stand them off." "Then what are you worrying about?" I demanded. "Relax for a minute and see what happens." Benson simmered and reluctantly accepted my logic. Meanwhile, the line of natives became mobile again. They closed in at a casual saunter, rolling off the balls of their long feet with a peculiar, slow, bouncing motion. A ripple of subdued exclamations ran through our people, and in turn the little natives moved their lips, turned their heads to one another and seemed to be commenting among themselves. Benson began hissing futile commands for the vs'omen to start boarding the ship. No one paid any attention. I could sense no great danger in the situation. In fact I felt more attracted than repelled by the little golden-haired creatures. Bailey, who was still on the ramp, took a different view. He called out, "They don't look dangerous, but keep away from them. Lord knows what kind of bugs they may have in them." It was a sobering thought. Their most insignificant disease germ might easily wipe out our colony if it proved contagious. Yet, how could we stop these natives without inflicting bloodshed? On they came in their shambling, loosc-gaited walk. Benson was unsnapping his holster flap, and even the highly curious women were beginning to shrink back toward the gangplank, when a light breeze swept through us from behind. It rustled the grass softly and moved into the natives, only # yards away. The wavering line stopped again. Segments began to retreat, first singly, then in pairs and groups. All but a handful of the most curious suddenly bounded for the forest and disappeared. The others came forward again, but with increasing bewilderment. Repeatedly, they raised their noses and sniffed the air. Bailey said from behind us, "They catch our scent and don't know what to make of it. Tliank heavens most of them took off. We can handle a dozen of them easily enough." Our pcoplc opcncd ranks and let the little creatures infiltrate. Sue squeezed my arm. "Why, they're beautiful little things! They make me feel self-conscious with my bleached-out skin. They certainly look intelligent, those eyes -- no fear in them at all -- look, they're even smiling!" Indeed, several of the creatures were grinning broadly at the male members of our party. They found our clothing amusing. Now we could hear their soft voices conversing in a language that was liquid with a great many compound vowel sound.s, not unlike Earth's Finnish tongue. Their quick, dark eyes seemed to take in everything. They seemed torn between a consuming curiosity and a strong aversion to our scent. One by one they satisfied the former and yielded to the latter, dropping back and racing for the forest in great, joyous bounds punctuated with happy little whoops of undefinable emotion. At last only one, chesty little male was left. Benson exhaled heavily beside me. "It's the little fellow we saw on the beach, Sam. Look, he's coming through." A tawny stripe of brown, furry hair ran from his high forehead, over the crown of his proud skull and down his neck to fade into the typical, deep, golden fuzz of his bcy. As he approached the ramp I saw that his face was smooth, entirely free of hair as though clean-shaven. By now Benson was as fascinated as the rest of us. I stepped down in front of him to confront our visitor. I placed a hand on my chest and said, "Sam Rogers!" The dark eyes swept from my feet to my head and fastened upon my face. He pointed four long fingers at me and repeated distinctly, "Samrogers." My name is easy to pronounce, but it was a shock to hear it from the lips of an extra-terrestrial being. Then he placed the same hand on his own chest and said, "Joe!" Actually, it came out with a rapid widening and narrowing of his lips that sounded like a quick version of, "Jo-ah-o-ah-oh," but the vowel echoes were so rapid that for practical purposes it read, "Joe," to me. I pointed my hand at him and repeated, "Joe!" He looked vaguely disappointed at my crude aspiratory control, but then a bright smile creased his cocky little face. His hand flicked out and back. "Samrogers -- Joe." Involuntarily I nodded my head. He nodded back and smiled again. Before I could think of what comes after, "Dr. Livingstone, I presume," he wrinkled his nose, squinted his eyes, whirled and darted off for the timber. We stood rooted for a minute, then Bailey said, "We must really stink. Plucky little fellow took it as long as he could." Ben.son looked back at Bailey and me. "Well, what do you think?" I looked at Bailey, and he looked at Dr. Sorenson. "Lord, I don't know. Except for the possibility of microbe infection, they appear perfectly harmless to me," Sorenson said. I said, "Since they don't like our scent there doesn't seem to be much danger of contact. Phil, why don't we call off the yellow alert with the exception of a rule or two about fraternization in closed spaces?" Benson looked over his people. All were paired off now, husband with wife. And to a man their arms were wrapped protectively around their respective spouses, watching for the decision. Their faces read, "Is this innocuous little race of people the cause of all the trouble?" Benson rubbed the gray of his temple with a knuckle. He mounted the ramp and announced, "The emergency is reduced to a blue alert. Women will have the freedom of the clearing and the visible beach, but only authorized working parties will enter the forest. Men will continue to wear sidearms. When outside shelters are complete we will sleep in them, but until then, or until we are better informed about the natives, we shall continue sleeping in the ship." T he new order of the day did nodiing to mitigate the resentment and tension, but it did accelerate assembly of the lumber mill and house construction. The little Sirians seemed to have satisfied their curiosity, for they left us to our labors for a whole week. The first building of our projected village was completed on the seventh day. It was little more than a two-room shanty, but it represented the most sought after prize of the moment, privacy! We drew lots for it, and, with the uncommon justice, one of the hardest working amateim carpenters won. The women brought in armloads of grass for a couch and decorated it with wild-flowers. When evening fell it seemed like an occasion lor a celebration, and Benson relented on the evening curfew. We galheied .si raps from the lumber mill, e.iielullv cleared a sandy strip on (he lieaeh of all inflammable matter and built a huge bonfire. In the rich atmosphere even the green wood burned merrily, spitting green sap anti sending up clouds of pungent, aromatic smoke. Sue had just curled up in the crook of my arm, and we were working on a case of Earth-nostalgia, when we noticed our visitors again. They came bounding, up to the wide rim of the firelight. They jabbered in e.xcited, ecstatic voices but stopped short of our human assembly. Only one, I recognized him as Joe, picked his way through us and came close to inspect the crackling blaze. Fascinated, Sue and I watched his profile contort with an expression of immense admiration. It was not the awe of a savage, but the heartfelt appreciation of a human for a rare and beautiful spectacle. "Fire must be unknown to them," Sue whispered. "At least mighty rare," I said. "The handbook says no volcanoes and no thunderstorms." Joe turned at the sound of our low voices. With eyes half-blinded by the glare he searched for me. "Samrogers!" he called clearly. "Samrogers!" I rose to my feet and answered, "Joe! Right here, Joe." He picked his way over to me, smiling broadly and glancing back at the fire every step or two. A pace away he stopped, pointed at me, said, "Samrogers," pointed at himscl, said, "Joe!" then pointed at the fire and waited. It was a clearly indirated question. I answered it respectfully, "Fire!" He repeated, "Fire," and his eyes glowed like sparks. Then he made gestures of picking up some of the fire and taking it away, turning to me to pose the question. Sorenson, propped up on an elbow, said, "I'll be damned. He's asking you to give him some of the fire." "No," Benson said. "He knows fire, knows you can't take the flames. He's asking for the means to build a fire." I faced Joe, shook my head solemnly and said, "No!" To give meaning to the word I sat down and turned my head away for a moment. When I looked back Joe was looking very disappointed. It made Sue so sad that she held out a wedge of sweet melon to him. J oe accepted the gift easily, graceully and with a small smile of "thank you". He turned back, squatted as near the blaze as comfort would permit and chewed absently at the melon. Thereafter he ignored the animated conversation that sprang up among us. Jane wanted to know why we didn't give him one of our lighters. "He's just as intelligent as we are," she insisted. She got no argtiment on that score, but her husband pointed out that the golden people were unaccustomed to handling fire, and that during the present dry season even the green foliage might take off in a holocaust if ignited in this rich, oxygen air. Even as he spoke, a long, slender pole, flaming at one end, toppled from the settling fire and rolled near Joe. With scarcely a pause to debate, he leaped to his feet, grabbed the pole by the cool end and waved it aloft like a torch. With a triumphant yell he plunged through us and out across the field bearing his prize aloft trailing sparks. I tried to shoot low, but my light caliber pellet caught him rather high in the tliigh. He dived to the ground senseless in a shower of sparks. His fellow creatures immetfiately gathered around him. When we closed in to retrieve the fire-wand and stamp out the sparks, the other natives faded away, crinkling tiieir noses. They made no effort to remove Joe, but cast many admiring glances back at the fire he had stolen. Sue came up storming at me. "You didn't have to shoot him." She started to kneel down beside him, but Dr. Bailey restrained her. "Easy, Susan. Remember the quarantine." "We can't let him lie there and bleed to death," I said, feeling unaccountably ashamed for my deed, although there was scarcely an alternative. Benson came up, "Nice shot, Sam." I said, "Phil, I want permission to enter quarantine with joe, here. Let me have the instruments, and I'll probe for the bullet and take care of him." Benson shook his head. "We can't take that chance. We couldn't spare you if you caught something." "Who could you spare better?" I demanded. "See here, we've got to find out sooner or later whether these little fellows carry anything contagious. If they do, well, then we have a decision to face, but wc can't decide anytliing until we know." Sue was at my side now. She said. "You have a dozen people who can punch a micro-writer. Sam and I aren't indispensable. Besides, it was he who crippled the poor little fellow." Without waiting for an answer slie called out, "Larson, where arc you?" The lucky carpenter tried to draw back in the shadows, knowing full well what she had in mind. Benson stared at me for a minute. He said gruffly, "Very well, if you can talk Larson out of his cottage, go ahead, play hero!" I didn't feel very heroic right then. Two hours later, when we had the bullet out of Joe and had him bedded down comfortably for the night. Sue cosied up to me in our double sleeping silks and murmured, "What a guy has to go through out here to get a little privacy!" Poor Larson! B ailey and Sorenson set up their lab outside our cabin door. Joe's wound was seriously infected, and none of our cautiously applied remedies would control the raging fever with which he awoke the first morning. He lay, apathetic, eyes half closed, murmuring, "Tala! Tala!" The doctors seized the opportunity to launch a study of Sirian microbes, diseases and earth molds. Sue and I took cultures from Joe's wound, and the medics experimented with the effects of local mold prodiu ls similar to the penimanaged to keep Joe alive until Bailey, one morning, held up a hypo full of deal' li(uid and told us how to administer it. Joe responded at cnee. The following day he began sitting up and vociferously demanding, "Tala, Tala!" "Must be his wife or girl-friend," Sue deduced. She was wrong. Joe began making motions of a person lifting a vessel and drinking. When we offered fiim water he refused, repeating, "Tala!" and making more drinking motions. He tried to rise, but the pain iii his swollen thigh stopped him. He sank back licking his lips like a man dying of thirst, and in spite of his general improvement, he stayed in a sullen, subdued attitude. As his wound closed and the swelling reduced, Joe's temperature, which had reached a fabulous # degrees F., stabilized at # F., thereby confinning Benson's prediction that the natives would display a much higher metabolism. Sue, who had spent hours stroking the fevered brow, had grown u.sed to Joe's hot-bloodedness, and she teased me about my relative "frigidity". Until Joe got his "tala" I made disappointing progress at teaching him our language. He picked up our words for those few items that ptertained to his comfort, such as food, drink, bedpan and pillow -- he revelled in the luxury of our down-filled pillows. But at first he evinced little interest in communication. Then one morning we arose to find him standing and clinging weakly to the door jamb, searching the perimeter of the clearing with frantic eyes. We scolded him, but he ignored us. He spotted a fellow native examining one of the unfinished huts, which were going up at the rate of one a day. He called out in a loud, clear voice, and the little golden creature came running oTr to investigate. It was a lovely little female, and and I told Sue, "We have a reunion on our hands. Must be his mate." But Joe was quite indifferent to her charms. She seemed tolerably happy to see him, touched his bandages with long, gentle fingers, then hurried off to the forest as if in response to his commands. Joe made no effort to follow. He seemed still to realize that he was in good hands and was profiting by the care he was receiving. However, he chafed for the ten minutes or so before her return. We waited with high curiosity. I bet Sue that we were about to learn what "tala" was. When the female approached again we were mystified. "Why it's just a mango," Sue said. Indeed, the yellowskinned, kidney-shaped fruit which the little native bore carefully in both hands appeared to be one of the over-sized specimens we had named after its smaller Earth counterpart. Joe reached greedily for the fruit, poked a hole in the rind with a pointed forefinger and drank deeply. Watching from the door of our bedroom, we could smell a delightful, tangy scent that was only vaguely typical of the Sirian mangoes we had eaten. To our surprise, as Joe drank, the skin collapsed like a plastic bag. "It must be a different species, or else it's much riper than any we've gathered," Sue said. When Joe paused to breathe, the female took the fruit from him and sucked at it enthusiastically. They sank down on Joe's bed and took turns drinking the juice until the quart-sized .skin was crumpled and empty. I fear I interrupted an incipient romance in order to retrieve the discarded skin. The female wrinkled her nose and made for the door. I watched her roll unsteadily across the clearing with eccentric little lurches. The bland smile on Joe's handsome face deepened my suspicion. I pointed to the skin and asked, "Tala?" He nodded, patted his stomach and repeated, "Tala!" From that moment our relations improved immensely. Joe enlisted the help of various females to keep him supplied with skins of tala, and with the satiation of his craving he took a completely new interest in life. working out our language difficulties. He learned so rapidly that I abandoned learning his language in favor of teaching him ours. Even such abstract concepts as time and space proved no obStacies. He grasjied the purpose of my wristwatch after a single day's demonstration of its relationship to the passage of Sirius across the sky. Using a pencil I had managed to convey our symbols for large numbers. Joe could count up to any number now, and he seemed actually to understand the openend nature of our .system of enumeration. It made possible a mutual agreement on such matters as the number of "days" in a year, which he was mildly interested to learn numbered # on his planet. Then a startling piece of infonnation came from him when I asked how long his people lived. "Two years. Maybe three," he replied. Because of the shorter days, a Sirian year about equalled an Earth year, and I found it difficult to believe that these wonderful little animals lived only two or three years. He persisted until I believed him. He was strangely vague when I tried to determine the common manner of death. Indeed, personal death was a concept either so hazy or distasteful to him that he refused to dwell on it. The most he would convey was that there were always new faces in the tribe, and the old faces rarely remained more than three years. At this time, he described himself as being more than a year old. This was only one of several startling items that were revealed in our conversations. The golden people matured in three months to fully grown adults. A female could bear several babies a year and usually did. Yet Joe insisted that his tribe was the only clan on the face of the planet, .so far as he knew, and that it numbered fewer than a thousand individuals. There was no such thing as monogamy or even jolygamy. True, at night when the air was cooler, they paired off, male and female, and eacli male elinse from among several favorites. But there was no formal nor permanent mating arrangement. Benson, who had set uj) a sheltered desk outside Joe's window in order to listen in witli an anthropologist's avid interest, i)o.sed the question which grew into quite a mystery. Under such fruitful conditions and ideal environment, why hadn't Joe's people overrun the planet? Even with the brief life-span, each female should produce many babies. Joe had no answer. The problem didn't interest him, and he refused to ponder it. He'd squat in the corner jealously guarding his limpskinned mango, nipping at it occasionally when our questions failed to make sense. We were all, incidentally, quite curious to taste Joe's tala juice, but it was his sole property. His lady-friends would hand it to no one but him, and he guarded it selfi.shly. Bailey and Sorenson had enlisted the help of our two organic chemists to examine the moist residue of the empty skins, but with their limited lab facilities all they could do was make guesses that the coveted juice wa,s the product of fermentation or enzymic action with which we were unfamiliar. As a psychologist I knew that Joe responded to the tala similarly to the way a human dipsomaniac does to alcohol. When he was wellsupplied he was cheerful and happy. When he ran out, he became taciturn and irritable. His frequent resort to the liquor, when we tried to force him to answer troublesome questions, confirmed my suspicion that there were certain matfused to embrace, and the simplest way to avoid worrying about them was to take another drink of tala. Benson and I discussed this one afternoon while Joe was taking a nap. We sat in the shade of my hut spooning the lush pulp of a mango into our mouths. He said, "Everything points to a race of super-intelligence held down by slieer degeneracy." "You mean the tala-drinking?" I asked. He nodded. "For one thing. Our work parties report that they never stop drinking the stuff. The older ones get quite plastered. I've seen it myself. Disgusting. And they have no common sense of, of -- well, I shouldn't say decency, because obviou.sly morality as we know it just doesn't exist. But thank heavens they don't care for the scent of humans." I said, "Don't depend on that too much. I asked Joe about it, and he said that we don't necessarily smell bad to them. It's just so alien to any scent they've known that they tend to shy off. Joe is quite used to it now. He lets Sue rub his back and his head. She's made quite a pet of him." Benson didn't like this news at all. He pondcred thoughtfully for a moment. "That means that they'll all gradually get used to being around us. I don't like it, Phil. They're just human enough to have a bad influence on the colony. They're dissolute and entirely without ambition. In fact they seem to have damned little race survival instinct at all." I had pondered this many times, but it hadn't struck me as esfjecially dangerous to the colony, nson went on, "We have a glorious planet here, rich in minerals and other natural resources. By comparison, Earth is so wom-out and depleted and over-crowded that the. contrast is almost too great." "What are you driving at?" I demanded. "Just this. From the first the biggest problem here has been to prod everyone to work. We have a civilization to build here, and that means clearing more land, breaking the soil, mining, construction. manufacturing." "Look," I said somewhat impatiently, "you don't expect # people to accomplish all this in four years, surely?" "I expect progress," he said firmly. "Do you realize that when wc finished the last of the forty houses that virtually ended the building program? Work on the two warehouses, the water system, sewage disposal plant and the commissary wc planned is almost at a standstill." "The people want time to finish up their homes and m.ikc them comfortable," I objected. "That's what they say," he told me, "but they're fooling away their time." "Phil, we've only been here a month, and -- " "And if I hadn't pulled a blue alert," he interrupted, "we wouldn't even have the residentials built yet. Now they've got their precious privacy, and the pressure is off. They'd rather go chasing off into the woods to hunt exotic fruit and peek at the natives than get on with the project." I hadn't realized things were this serious. "Don't they obey orders any more? What about your work schedules?" "I've pushed them as hard as I can without forcing a test of my authority," he said. "They claim they dc.serve time to get adjusted and relax a little before buckling down." "I agree with them," I said. "They're all serious, industrious people, and this is still an adventure with them. It will wear off pretty soon, and they'll be yearning for comforts of Earth. They'll buckle down when the rainy season hits," I predicted. "I wonder. Here's one good example. Look over there. Donnegan's food detail is just now returning with its first load. They left three hours ago." He yelled over to the foreman. Donnegan, a large, pleasantfaced biologist sauntered over to us. Benson said, "Was the expedition successful?" Donnegan brushed off the sarcasm. "Fooling aside, it is getting to be something of an expedition to find fruit. The natives are cleaning it out near at hand." Turning to me Benson said, "There's another thing. The little devils have settled all around us, and everything is community property with them. Not only do they strip the fruit but they pick up anything that isn't nailed down and wander off with it." "That's odd," I said. "Joe indicates that they place no value on possessions normally." "Oh, they don't keep things," Donnegan explained. "They pack them off, fiddle with them and then we find them strewn all over the forest. Sometimes I'd like to wring their little necks!" Benson looked up at him quickly. "Sounds funny coming from you, Paul. You were one of their chief defenders at tlumeeting last week." Donnegan's face darkened. "That was last week, before I found out a few things. As a matter of fact, I think it's time you knew about them, too." He squatted down by us and unburdened himself. A S IT SO often will, a barrier had erected itself between the colony members and their leader, what shamefacedly confessed what had gone on behind this curtain of silence. It seemed that two weeks earlier Bromley, one of the chemists, had contrived some rather crude, oldfashioned, sulphur-and-phosphorus, friction matches. Trading on the native's delight with fire, he had bribed them with matches to give him one of the tala-mangoes which he tasted, then promptly proceeded to swill until he was quite drunk. In a generous mood he passed out matches to other male members of the colony who, in turn, made the barter and joined the party. "The stuff is really delicious," Donncgan admitted. "And it doesn't even give you a hang-over." "Go on," Benson invited coldly. Within a few days, Donnegan related, evTylKidy was nipping on the tala. Bromley was turning out a steady supply of matches from his lab. and they were now the going currency for trading with the natives. In order to keep their wives quiet the men brought the super-ripe mangoes home and shared them. The precious fruit, it developed, came from regular mango trees but reached the desired, fermented condition only at the leafy crowns of the trees where even the nimble, light-weight natives found it hazardous and difficult to reach them. Bromley said that he knew of several native casualties from fatal falls that had occurred since the traffic in tala increased. Benson asked the question that was in my mind. "What caused you to come to me at this late date?" he demanded. "Something more serious must have happened." "Well, I didn't mind the taladrinking so much -- but, well. Captain Spooner and I came back to his hut one afternoon this week and found his pretty little wife with one of the natives -- a male. Spooner thought it was a big joke -- he was a little drunk at the time, and so was his wife. But I don't think it's any joke at all." Benson was on his feet, his face livid. "What else?" Bromley said, "I checked around a little bit, and I found that quite a few of our people are making pets out of the natives. The little devils have got used to our scent, and they'll do anything just to watch a match bum." "But the quarantine?" I said. "I guess they figure it's safe enough. Personally, I don't. But they feel that since you and Sue have escaped any disease there's no reason for the non-fraternizing rule, not even in closed spaces. Several couples I know hold parties every night in their huts after dark. They invite a couple of nati-es who supply the tala. They all sit around a candle. The natives sleep there." He kicked at an empty tala skin that Joe had tossed out the door earlier. "Things are out of hand, and I'm ashamed I haven't come to you sooner, Benson." Phil was so outraged he couldn't speak. I said, "Thanks, Donnegan. You did the right thing." He left us, and while Benson was struggling to control his anger I said, "It's a wonder they haven't burned the place down. The forest must be damp enough to sustain fire, or they certainly would have set one." "It might have been better." Benson said, "if they had burned the whole damned planet up! And you thought I was exaggerating! There you have it, a perfect set-up to make beachcombers out of the whole colony. Plenty of free food, liquor, beautiful native girls and a mild climate." "And native boys," I added, rememljering suddenly tliat I was harboring one of the "pets" under my own roof. Benson clenched his fists. "From the first I knew what the answer must come to. I just didn't have the guts to face it." I nodded. "I suppose we'll have to drive them off." "Drive them off, nothing! They're nomads, and they'd be back sooner or later. There will always be people in the colony and the natives are clever enough to circumvent any discipline I aim against them." "What else can you do, short of -- genocide?" "Why rule out genocide? Sam, face it! Race extermination is the only permanent and satisfactory solution." The thought was abhorrent to me, but he argued, "If we don't eliminate them entirely they'll always be around to plague us. Just picture what this or any future colony would look like after a year or two of uninhibited mingling tala. Is that the civilization that Eartli sent us out here to establish?" In every part of the universe where living conditions have been too kind and discipline too lax, men have been known to go native, and suddenly I felt that Benson had been much more acute in his apprehensions than I, a graduate psychologist who was supposed to understand human nature. Somewhat subdued I said, "How do you plan to accomplish a complete extermination? If we start hunting them down they'll just fade into the woods. Besides, you'd have a devil of a time getting agreement among our people to take on such a messy project." "It has to be done, that's all. I want you to keep completely quiet about what we've learned until I can think about it. Bromley should have some ideas. He's a biologist." When Ben.son said, "biologist", the obvious solution popped into my head. "If we could sterilize tliem -- all the males, anyway -- they have siuh a shori lifi'-span -- " " l oo slow. Besides, how arc you going to coax all the males to lie down and " llis eyes opened wider, "Radiation!" "Exactly. We l;ike them for a tour ol the ship, inelniling tin Xray booth, and pom on the power." "Might be ilone at that. But it would be so slow." was conceived amotig six of us who met secretly that night in Benson's new ship (uarters. Donnegan brought his fellow biologist, Terrence Frost, and I had contacted the two medics. We reached swift agreement as to the necessity of taking steps, and decided to work on my rough plan. It was also voted not to divulge our intentions to the others, and then the meeting broke up. When I returned to my hut, Jane was sitting cross-legged just outside my door visiting with Susan. I thought .she would be curious about the confidential nature of the meeting from which she was excluded, but she had other tilings on her mind. She stood up and said, "I think your patient is recovered, and you've got a problem, mister." She stalked off into the night. I looked at Sue's pink face and half-guessed the answer before she told me. It seemed that Joe had suddenly developed amorous inclinations. Sue had the habit of stroking his head like a pet dog, and this evening, without warning, Joe had begn returning the caresses in a manner so casual and gentle tliat Sue hadn't noticed the trend. From a more objective viewpoint, however, Jane had observed the rather unplatonic indications of Joe's attitude and mortified Sue by drawing her attention to it with an acid remark. In my fury I fancied that Joe had tried to take advantage of my absence. His cleverness in avoiding such advances in iny presence was nullified by his error of assuming that Jane would pose no obstacle. At present he sprawled in his comer beside an empty mango skin, breathing rapidly, innocently asleep. The incident served to drive home Donnegan's story and steel me against the many twinges of conscience I was to suffer in our campaign to wipe out Joe's race. It also served as an adequate excuse, in Sue's eyes, when I told Joe the next morning that he was quite well enough to return to the forest. This was a fact we both had known for over a week, but Joe in his indolent way, had been quite content to remain and talk with me endlessly. Until now, I had welcomed his presence as an inexliaustiblc source of information. He accepted the dismissal without rancor and promised to return and visit us next spring. "Next spring?" I said. "We will leave soon," he said. "We go south in the autumn." "Wait," I said. And I told him that as a gesture of friendship we had decided to take all males of his race for a tour through the ship. Would he take this word to his people? He said he would, but his face became very thoughtful. That afternoon they formed a short line at the ramp, and the "tours" began. The line was short because they refused to wait long for anything, but as the line shortened, others came from the woods to take their places. To produce a favorable "press" on our show and thus assure perfect attendance by all the males, Benson rigged several mechanical displays of flasliing lights and whirling devices. They were delighted, and when they got to the X-ray booth, to induce them to stand still we set up a gas torch with a beautiful, vermilion, strontium flame. The only problem at this point was to get them to move on alter they got their painless dose of sterilizing radiation. Every tenth "golden boy" was shunted into a small chamber filled with organ, the instant anaesthetizing gas, and Dr. Sorenson, wearing an oxygen mask, would catch him as he fell, take his specimen, hand it through a slot to Dr. Bailey and then drag the unsuspecting victim into the frc.sh air where the nurses took over with more wonders to distract his attention. This running spot-check on the collected .semen samples assured us that our radiation was effectively destroying the spermatozoa. I sat at my old place at the base of the ramp, weeding out tire occasional females who tried to sneak in and also checking to sec that we had no repeats. Our method was simplicity itself. As each native finished our tour an attendant atomized a faint but very pcnnan'iit stain of waterproof dye on tluhair of the right slioulder blade. It wa.s hardly noticeable unless you were looking for it, and that was one of my jobs. In two days wc "toured" #I males. A week later the night rains began, and our unwclcomed neighbors vanished. B enson had postponed his little lecture deliberately, and now he called us all togetlicr for a fatherly talk which I helped him prepare. He begun abruptly. "Since nature has been so bountiful in providing us with tala, I don't intend to proclaim any silly prohibition regarding its consumption. With a little reflection, howevi-r, I hope that all of you can understand that we must have .some control. I am fully aware that many of you arranged your own private channels for obtaining this liquor, but with the departure of our tree-climbing friends the easy soui'ce has dried uj. "Now, to prevent some of you from breaking your fool necks trying to climb the trees yoursebes, I propose that we place tala in the commissary as a normal ration to be issued equitably to all -- when it is available. And working together, our clearing parties will, no doubt, fell enough mango trees to give us all a fair taste." Benson's une.xpected tolerance and remarkable proposal was received with mixed embarrassment, relief and enthusiasm. He went on, "We have enjoyed almost two months of rather unrestrained partying, and I'm not going to rail at that came to my attention. So far the intimacies which some of you took with the natives have produced no epidemics nor bastard offspring on cither side. However, were I to accept V"ur actions as sider our cohiny iloomeil already for further investment by Earth civilization. "Instead, I feel you will, during the winter months, regain your perspective and apply yourself to the principles which brought us here and must continue to bind us together if we are to survive as a permanent culture." Benson's speech had the desired effect. Without the little jeople around to distract us, the colonists plunged into their work, and things got done. True, a ratiher disproportionate numlxtr of logs brought in by the falling crews turned out to be mango-wood, but the talarationing program added incentive precisely where it was needed. The perimeter of our clearing advanced rapidly, the cultivating and planting parties followed closely behind, and the .sawmill added an industrious sound to the whole operation. As Benson had hoped, w'hcn the people buckled down they once again began yearning for the conveniences they had left on earth. The chemists finally contrived suitable raw materials for the plasticizer and began manufacturing screens for our gaping windows, muchly-needed pipe for our water and sewage systems and even a few "frivolous" luxuries such as cups, saucers and fruit bowls. The commissary and other public buildings were planked out roughly, and the hospital-clinic was completed before the first two babies arrived. The history-making blessed event was an honor and an onus to Captian Spooner and his young wife. To father the first human offspring of many of us, but Spooner and the Second Officer had something over a light-year head-start on the rest of us. Infant Spooner arrived just ## months after our landing. The Mate's baby came two weeks later. Sue herself svas satisfyingly pregnant. By spring it was obvious that Earth's gynecologists had chosen the members of our colony well, and there would be no dearth of young blood. Fully a third of the women were expecting, and Sue's date indicated she would have won the derby if it hadn't been for the ship's officers' perfidy. The colony as a whole was in good shape. As the most pressing work was disposed of, the men took turns at the pleasant hunting details, and we began enjoying fresh meat from the small game of the forest. On one such trip I brought back a live little animal that looked like a cross between a three-toed sloth and a teddy bear, except that he had a long, woofly snout like an ant-eater. He seemed to be hibernating in the crotch of a small tree, and when I shook him down he cuddled up and clung to my neck so lovingly that I decided he'd make a good pet for Sue. The little cub kept nipping affectionately at my neck on the hike back, and he clung so close he was a nuisance, but Sue was delighted. We had to improvise a cage at night to keep him from mauling us and keeping us awake. Sue named him, "Toots", and we were the envy of all the camp. When Joe and his people returned tliree weeks later, and we discovered the truth about Toots, the others were happy they hadn't acquired a similar pet. mango trees were rapidly refilling their high branches with the tala-fruit. We now had a roofed central kitchen where the women prepared our meals. We ate at long tables in the open. Shortly after the noon meal one day, Joe and his people returned. He caught up to Sue and me as were strolling to our hut for our daily fifteen-minute siesta. He appeared tiled from the journey but quite glad to see us. I felt the pangs of conscience as I added my hypocritical welcome to Sue's warm greeting. In his old room we sat on the rough furniture I had fashioned, and Joe eyed Sue's fruitful contours. "A baby soon, eh? We have many babies among us." "You -- have?" I said. "Many were born on the return trip. They slowed up the females with their sucking. For eight days they are a burden on the mother." Sue exclaimed, "Eight days? Then what happens?" The subject id not greatly interest Joe. "Then they find their own food -- if the koodi does not find them first." "What in the world is a koodi?" Sue asked with a shiver. Joe was silent for a minute. He wrinkled his broad brow and looked at me. "Samrogers, you asked me many questions about how we die. I did not understand this death for a long time. Now I know. It is when the koodi comes. He comes to the very young and to the old. The babies are too small to hold him oir. The old drink much tala, then the koodi comes to them. This is my thiid year, and my thirst for tala is great. The koodi will come." His words painted a clear picture of a superstitious concept of death, personifying it even as humans refer to the "grim reaper". But Sue took a different view. "What does the koodi look like?" she persisted. Joe looked jiuzzled. He raised a long, four-segmented finger and pointed to a corner of the room where Toots was curled up like a fur neck-piece. "He looks like that. There is a koodi." My first impulse was to reject the statement as ridiculous. Toots was as haiinless as an over-sized kitten. Besides, the manual made no mention of -- Sue made a small sound in her throat. Her face was colorle.ss. "Sam! Get him out of here!" "But the manual -- "d'he manual didn't mention Joe's people, either," she said halfhysterically. "Gel Toots out of here." Still unbelieving I walked over and hauled the little fuzzy animal up into my arms. Instantly, he cuddled close and rammed his pointed snout under my open collar and began nibbling at my neck. I took him outside, and out of perverse curiosity I let him have his way with my neck. At first it tickled, as always, but instead of batting his head away I let him nibble with his soft, pointed lips...Sue called out, "Sam what are you doing? Kill him, Sam!" His lips spread into a little circle on my flesh and began sucking gently. There was no pain, just the throb of my jugular under his mouth. Now his long, soft, hairy arms became firmer around my neck. I jerked back and they gripped hard. A chill of panic stabbed me, and I could feel the taut flesh of my neck drawn more deeply into his puckered lips. I tugged at him silently, not wishing to frighten Sue. He wouldn't come loose. In broad, noon-daylight I had a Sirian vampire in my arms, threatening to rupture my jugular vein and kill me within speaking distance of half a hundred people. I tried to level my voice. "Joe, would you come out here, please?" He came at once, stared with a blank expression and said, "You have been drinking much tala?" "Help me, dammit!" I said, holding my voice down. "I can't shake him loose. He's trying to -- " The long, tight arm squeezed off my breath. In turn I tried to strangle him, but under the thick fur was a bony protection where there should have been .soft neck. "It does no good to kill the koodi," Joe said. "There is always another. Once they hold you tightly it is too late." Sue thought differently. She came through the door like a hellcat. Catching up her garden hoc she swung a blow that, had it mi.ssed Toots, would have crushed my skull. But Sue didn't miss. I fell on my back, and Toots let go, dead of a broken spine. was Benson's best idea. Not only did it put tala on a legitimate basis, but it controlled our dealings with the natives. Bromley, the chemist, who was the original offender, was charged with manufacturing the wooden matches, and the medium of exchange was concentrated in the hands of the commissary "purchasing agent". The reason that Benson sanctioned the controlled tala trade with the natives stemmed from our apparent failure to sterilize the males. There was, indeed, a huge crop of native babies, tiny little dolls that looked like spider monkeys and dropped from their mothers' breasts after little more than a week. The brisk tala trade w.as part of our program to keep the natives in close association while we devised ways and means to discover the cause of our failure. All quarantine rules had long .since been dropped, and Sorenson and Bailey began inventing ruses to lure the males into the gas chamber again. Weeks passed while we worked our way through the whole male population again, testing for fertility and X-raying it wherever we found it. Through Joe we advertised new wonders to be seen in the ship, and as the sight-seers left we tagged each with an atomized spot on the other shoulder, indicating that he was still sterile or had just become so. This time we tallied # males which, according to Joe, was certainly the whole masculine population. The mystery of our failure at genocide forced an unpleasant decision on Benson. The biologists and medics insisted that we must win the natives' confidence even further to gain their cooperation. As the heat of summer bore down and the mercury rose, we eased off on the work schedule and deliberately planned social functions to which we had Joe invite a group of natives. There were picnics and beach parties where our guests brought their own tala, and ours was carefully rationed. Group singing entranced the little golden people, and they took remarkable delight in the discovery of their own, sweetly pitched voices. Enterprising Joe. with his remarkable memory, soon became unofficial song leader, and all day long we would hear the natives practicing. Sue's baby came, a sturdy little boy whom we named Richard Joseph -- Sue insisted on the second name, and I couldn't argue her out of it without revealing my reasons. Within two weeks the clinic's nursery was full of babie.s, and it was at this point that the natives' interest became deeply stirred. The language barriers were breaking down rapidly. Many of our regular visitors were females, and with Joe's help as an interpreter they were soon able to ask questions. Their greatest curiosity hinged on the fabulous care we gave our infants. Although I wouldn't permit Sue to do it, several of our women began using fcmalo natives for babysitters. This lead to the first Ijasic behaviour change we had noticed. The females began to pay more attention to their own offspring. It was as if they had just discovered the pleasure of fondling their babies and watching them crawl and kick and gurgle. Even after the first week they were still carrying them around, finding choice morsels of fruit for them, fanning off the insects and singing them to sleep with their new-found abilities to make music. Benson noticed it and called a meeting of the secret si.x. He .said, "Our little program had better work this time or we are in for it. Apparently this kuodi animal that Sam had the tussle with is the principal population control, and now the mothers are packing tlieir kids around until they're old enough to fight off the koodi." Donnegan shook his liead. "Damned if I can find out vvliere we slipped up. Frost and I just finished a series of tests with native ova and human sperm. They don't mix. Of course, we didn't expect them to, but what in hell is the answer?" I hadn't known of this project. I said, "You didn't think tliat our male colonists -- " Benson scowled with cxas)cration. "We don't know what to think, Sam! We sterilized #I native males last fall, and the babies are just as thick as ever." I said, "Well, we got to # of them this time. That should do it for sure. Joe says he'll keep a lookout for any males without the two stains on his shoulder." Benson narrowed his eyes. "You know, it strikes me that Joe is being awfully helpful. What reason did you give him for wanting this information?" "He didn't ask," I said. composed of #-day months, excc)t February which we shorted six days to make it come out even...According to this calendar the "May-flies" came in July, just a month before our first anniversary. The little winged insects were a seasonal life-form, one more item that csc.ipcd the exploratory party, and lor which we were unprepared. They came out of the north, and they .struck us before we could take shelter in the ship or our plasticscreened huts. They were a little smaller than flying ants, and even their long wings were jet-black. Their bites were infinitesimal, but each one smarted like a prick w ith a hot needle. In the midst of the confusion of rescuing babies and herding everyone in doors, I noticed that all the natives had disappeared into the forest. Everyone had suffered a hundred bites or more, and we were sorry, swollen sights. Sue insisted that I cover myself and make a run for the clinic to see if Dr. Bailey had any remedies for the bites. Richard Jo.sc)h was crying loudly from the irritation, so I agreed. It was only # yards to the clinic, and I made it without collecting many more stings. But the doctors had nothing to offer. They were dabbing various salves, astringents and pastes on test patches of their own skin, but nothing seemed to have any cfTcct at all. "All we hope," said Sorenson, "is that the (lies aren't microbe-carriers." I started out the door to return then stepjH'd back and peered throujh the screen. The forest was erupting with natives. They staggered into the clearing, headed for the center of it and sank down as if with great weariness. On and on they came until the ground among our buildings was literally paved with their prone bodies. "Poor devils," Bailey murmured as the clouds of flies continued to sweep through our village. "Nothing we can do, though. I wonder why they come out in the open? You'd think they had better protection in the trees." I had no answers, so I covered my head again and tnade a dash for my own hut. Inside I brushed off the clinging flies and stamped on them. "The medics don't have any help for us," I said. Then I saw him. Sue was struggling to hold Joe on his feet. His arms were draped loosely over her shoulders, and for a second I couldn't decided whether he was ill or making a pass at Sue. I pulled him ofl' her by one shoulder. He swung around and toppled into my arms. Remarkably few insect bites showed under the transparent haze of golden hair, but he recked of tala. "You're drunk," I yelled at him. "A lot of help you arc at a time like this!" "Tala," he said from loose lipts. "Much tala." "You've had much tala, all right!" I said disgusted. Sue said, "We've got to let him stay in here, Sam. The flies will cat him alive out there." She went to the window and knocked the flies from the outside of the screen. Then she screamed. I thought she had just discovered the massed natives. but she kept on screaming until I went to her and looked out. In the late afternoon sun, fuzzy little brown animals were waddling out of the forest, closing in on the # or more natives ling senseless in the clearing. Koodi! Dozens of them. I forgot my screaming wife, my ers'ing infant, the drunken wifestealer slumped on the floor. I forgot the torture of my own stings. All I remember is snatching my pLstol from its holster that hung by the door and plunging out and pulling the trigger until fire ceased to come out of it. Then I was kicking and smashing with a tree limb, and every blow smaslied one of the vile little ghouls into the grass. I thought I saw Ben.son bring and kicking, but I blacked out before I could be sure. I regained consciousness with the flies still keening in my ears. Sue was calling my name and slapping me sharply in the face. Joe was trying to pull me to my feet, but the last thing I remember is the both of us collapsing to the ground. ing fever and gloriously drunken sensation of floating. Joe brought a fruit to me when he saw I was stirring. I drank the thin, tangy juice in one breath and sank back into a deep sleep again. My next drink came from the long, slender fingers of a pretty littie female native. This time it was water, and I stayed awake. Joe came in, saw I was awake and came back in a few minutes with Benson and Dr. Bailey. They both looked terrible, Benson especially. Bailey said, "Take it easy. Sue's at the clinic. She and the baby are all right, but you damned near didn't make it." Benson said, "Can you talk?" I cleared my throAt and decided I could. He waved Joe and the female out. Then he and Bailey sat down beside me. I asked, "Any casualties?" "Two of our babies and thirty-six native babies. Some of the koodi came in after dark." It sounded strange, Benson's listing native casualties with our own. The memory of the koodi attack brought a wave of nausea over me. I said, "Benson, I'm sorry, but I'm all done trying to murder Joe's race. I want no further part of it." Benson's face was thin and drawn, and he stared at the floor. "If we haven't murdered it already," he said, "there will be no more attempts while I am in charge." He covered his face with his hands. "Bailey. Tell him, Bailey." The doctor's voice was gravelly and weak. "If it hadn't been for the natives we'd all have died. The venom from the flies paralj'zed everyone the second day after the swarm hit us. The flies w'ere gone the next morning, hut every soul in the colony pa.sscd out. Joe and his friends took care of us, poured tala down our throats and fed us." "But they were soused," I said. "Their only defense against the flies. The little black devils left the natives pretty well alone, and it appears that the tala was responsible. Could be that the stuff is what neutralized the toxin, too. They must have poured a gallon of it down me, judging from the empty skins by my bed...t any rate, they kejjt us alive until we could get up and feed ourselves." "Why did they come into the clearing when they drank the tala?" I asked. Bailey said, "Joe told us that the day he saw Sue kill the koodi th.ii was attacking you, he got the idea that he should do something about them himself. Through his efforts the natives no longer take the little devils as an inevitable evil. They kill them wherever they find them now. And when they had to get drunk to save themselves from the flics, Joe pa.sscd the word for them to hit for the clearing. The koodi usually avoid the sunlight, but it was late in the afternoon. They came anyway." "Phil," I said, "did I sec you out bastards?" He nodded silently. "You had changed your mind about the natives at that time?" "I -- I suppose so. Don't rub it in, Sam. It's hard enough to live with the thought of how wrong I was. All I can do now is pray that whatever failed in our first try failed again. Joe's peoitle have made the human race look pretty dismal. They have every right to their planet, and if we are fooli.sh enough to go native, well -- at least we have a stronger survival instinct." At that point Susan came in carrying Richard. He had the hiccoughs. Sue kissed me. "Richard just drew his ration of sterile tala from the clinic. He still has a slight fever. But thanks to Joe and Harmony -- " "Harmony? Who's that?" "The native girl who helped Joe nurse us. Her name is really Hahah-arin-ig-hin-ih-hee. or something like that. She answers to Harmony, though." And she did. Hearing her name the little golden girl came through the door towing Joe by one hand. I said, "One of your favorites, Joe?" He ran a caressing, four-fingered hand over her shoulder. "I like her," he admitted. "She wants to call me husband like Sue calls you." Bailey smiled. "It seems there is a new fad among the natives. Something like monogamy, I understand." I said, "What do you think of the idea, Joe?" He thought it over. "I have not made up my mind." Sue pressed him, "Why not marry Harmony, Joe?" In the blunt manner in which he so often made his curious revelations, Joe blurted out, "Because I am in much demand among all the females. It is -- very pleasant." Bailey's eyes widened. He ordered, "Bend over, Joe." Joe obliged so we could all examine his back. There were two brown stains on his shoulder blades as there should be, but Bailey was not sati.sfied. He X)ked a finger into them and examined the skin under the hair. "Mango pitch!" he announced. "Stained clean down to the skin. Did you do that, Joe?" "Yes." "Why?" "I knew you would force me to go into the ship with the others if I didn't have the stain." Bensin looked up, shocked. "Then you -- you knew what we were trying to do?" "Yes. You and Sainrogers spoke of it outside the hut one day. You thought I was asleep. Some of your words puzzled me, so I stayed away from the ship. Then I found out what they meant." "But you helped us get the others to go into the .ship!" "It was what you wanted," Joe said simply. "Later, when we went south, the females saw that only Joe's favorites continued to have babies. So Joe became very -- popubr." I said, "You mean they figured it out?" Joe smiled. "Did you think we do not know about -- " he pau.sed to dredge among his amazing store of human idioms, " -- tlie facts of life?" Bailey shook his head. "What a man! What a race! Think what they would be if they had a human's survival instinct!" "And thumbs," I added.    Science Fiction Convention to be held in San Francisco, California, on September #th, #th and #th. The program promises to be an exciting and unusual one, with outstanding scientists, and authors and artists in the world of science fiction taking part. John W. Campbell, Jr., foremost author and editor in the field, will be the guest of honor. Make your reservations early and tend your registration fee (only one dollar) today to Box #, Station A, Richmond #, California. Illustrated by Kelly Freas If Saranta wished to qualify as one who loved his fellow man, he should have known that often the most secretive things are the most obvious. tour, Tardo, the Solar Council's Planetary Aid agent, and his companion, Pco, were taken to the castle which stood on a hill overlooking the area. Tardo and Peo were entertained royally at luncheon by Saranta, their host, who appeared to be the wealthy overlord of this portion of the planet. The meal was delicious -- tender, inch-thick steaks served with delicate wine sauce and half a dozen of the planet's exotic vegetables, topped olT by a cool fruit dcs.sert. "My recommendation will be of considerable importance to you," said Tardo as they ate. "If it is favorable, there is certain technical aid aboard ship which will be made available to you at once. Of course, you will not receive advanced equipment from the Solar Council until there is a more thorough investigation." "I'm afraid our culture is too simple and agrarian to win your approval," .said Saranta modestly. "That isn't a major consideration. The Council understands the difficulties that have faced colonics in other star systems. There arc certain fundamental requirements, of course : no abnormal religious practices, no slavery... well, you understand what I mean." "We really feel that we have done well since we... our ancestors, that is... colonized our world a thousand years ago," said Saranta, toying with a wineglass. A smiling servant filled the glasses of Tardo and Peo. "'ou see, there was no fuel for the ship to explore other planets in the system, and the ship just rusted away. Since we arc some distance from the solar system, yours is the first ship that has landed here since colonization." "You seem to have been lucky, though," said Peo. He was navigator of the Council ship, and had asked to accompany Tardo on the brief inspection trip. "You could have landed on a barren planet." "Well, no, the colonizers knew it was liveable, from the first exploration expedition," said Saranta. "There were difficulties, of cour.se. Luxuriant vegetation, but no animal life, so we had no animals to domesticate. Pulling a plow is hard work for a man." "But you were able to solve this situation in a humanitarian way?" asked Toredo, peering at him keenly. "That is to say, you didn't resort to slavery?" Saranta smiled and spread his hands slightly. "Does this look like a slave society to you?" he countered. "The colonists were anxious to co-operate to make the planet liveable. No one objected to work." "It's true we've seen no slaves, that we know about," said Tardo. "But two days is a .short time for inspection. I must draw most of my conclusions from the attitudes of you and the others who are our liosts. How about the servants here?" "They are paid," answered Saranta, and added ruefully: "There are those of us who think they are paid too well. They have a union, you know." Tardo laughed. "A carry-over from Earth, no doubt," he commented. "An unusual one, too, for a culture without technology." When the meal was over, the two men from the ship were conducted on a tour of the area. It was a neat agricultural community, with broad fields, W'ell-constructed buildings and, a short distance from Saranta's castle-like home, a village in which artisans and craftsmen plied their peaceful trades. Peo tried to notice what he thought Tardo would look for on such a short inspection. The Council agent, he knew, had had intensive training and many years of experience. It was hard for Peo to judge what factors Tardo would consider significant -- probably very minor ones that the average man would not notice, he thought. Tardo had seemed most intent on the question of slavery, and Peo looked for signs of it. He could see none. The people of the planet had had time to conceal some things, of course. But the people they saw in the village wore a proud air of independence no slave could assume. Saranta apologized for their having to walk, explaining that there was no other means of transportation on the planet. "And, without transportation, you can understand why we have not been able to develop a technology," he added. "We hope transport will be included in the first assistance you will give us." Tardo asked about the fields. "I see there is no one working them," he said. "Is that done by the villagers?" "Our labor supply is transient," an.swered Saranta after a moment's hesitation. "The laborers who will work our fields -- for a wage, of course -- are probably in the next town or the one beyond it now." Alpha Persei was sinking in the western sky when Tardo and Peo took their leave of Saranta and made their way down the road toward their planetary landing craft. "It looks like a good world to me," said Peo. "If tomorrow's inspection is as satisfactory, I suppose you will recommend the beginning of technical aid?" "There will be no inspection tour tomorrow, and I shall recommend against aid at (his time," replied Tardo. "I've seen enough." "Why?" asked Peo, surprised. "There are two classes of people on this planet, and we've seen only one," said Tardo. "Tlio.se we have seen are freemen. The others are no better than animals. We give no aid that helps men tighten their hold over their fellows." "If you haven't seen them, how do you know there is another class?" demanded Peo. "There is no evidence of any such situation." "The evidence is well hidden. But if you think your stomach can take it now, I'll tell you. If you remember your history, colonizing ships # years ago had no space to carry animals along. They had to depend on native animal life of the planet, and this planet had none." "Saranta said that But I don't see..." "Those were delicious steaks, weren't they?" remarked Tardo quietly.    of Milton Lesser's best -- don't miss it! And if you like equations, there is a matheF. Young, Randall Garrett, Vernon L. McCain, Patrick Wilkins and Harry Neal -- plus IP's usual outstanding features... AC your local newsstand August #th. Illustrated by Ed Emsk Cutter demanded more and more and more efficiency -- and got it! But, as in anything, enough is enough, and too much is... G eorge H. cutter wheeled his big convertible into his reserved space in the Company parking lot with a flourish. A bright California sun drove its early brightness down on him as he strode toward the square, fourstory brick building which said Cutter Products, Inc. over its front door. A two-ton truck was grinding backward, toward the loading doors, the thick-shouldered driver craning his neck. Cutter moved briskly forward, a thick-shouldered man himself, though not very tall. A glint of light appeared in his eyes, as he .saw Kurt, the truck driver, fitting the truck's rear end into the tight opening. "Get that junk out of the way!" he yelled, and his voice roared over the noi.se of the truck's engine. Kurt snapped his head around, his blue eyes thinning, then recognition spread humor crinkles around his eyes and mouth. "All right, sir," he said. "Just a second while I jump out, and I'll lift it out of your way." "With bare hands?" Cutter said. "With bare hands." Kurt said. Cutter's laugh boomed, and as he rounded the front of the truck, he struck the right front fender with his fist. Kurt roared back from the cab with his own laughter. He liked joking harshly with Kurt and with the rest of the truck drivers. They were simple, and they didn't have his mental strength. But they had another kind of strength. They had muscle and energy, and most important, they had guts. Twenty years before Cutter had driven a truck himself. The drivers knew that, and there was a bond between them, the drivers and himself, that seldom existed between employer and employee. The guard at the door came to a reflex attention, and Cutter bobbed his head curtly. Then, instead of taking the stairway that led up the front to the second floor and his office, he strode down the hallway to theleft, angling through the shop on the first floor. He always walked through the shop. He liked the hi av ilriving .sound of the machines in his ears, and the muscled look of the ini ii, in their coarse work shiits and heavy-soled shoes. Here again was strength, in the machines and in the men. And here again too, the bond between Cutter and his employees was a thing as real as the whir and grind and thump of the machines, as real as the spray of metal dust, spitting away from a spinning saw blade. He was able to drive himself dirough to them, through the hard wall of unions and prejudices against bu.siness suits and white collars and soft clean hands, because they knew that at one time he had also been a machinist and then tool and die operator and then a shop foreman. He got through to them, and they respected him. They were even inspired by him, Cutter knew, by his energy and alertness and steel confidence. It was one good reason why their production continually skimmed along near the top level of efficiency. Cutter turned abruptly and started up the metal-lipped concrete steps to the second floor. He went up quickly, his square, almost chunky figure moving smoothly, and there was not the faintest shortening in his breath when he reached the level of his own office. Coming up the back steps required him to cross the entire administration office which contained the combined personnel of Production Control, Procurement, and Purchasing. And here, the sharp edge of elation, whetted by the walk past the loading dock and the truck drivers and the machine shop and the machinists, was dulled slightly. On either side of him as he paced rapidly across the room, were the rows of light-oak desks which contained the kind of men he did not like; fragile men, whether thin or fat, fragile just the same, in the eyes and mouth, and pale with their fragility. They affected steel postures behind those desks, but Cutter knew that the steel was synthetic, that there was nothing in that mimicked look of alertness and virility but posing. They were a breed he did not understand, because he had never been a part of them, and so this time, the invisible but very real quality of employer-employee relationship turned coldly brittle, like frozen cellophane. The sounds now, the clicking of typewriters, the sliding of file drawers, the squeak of adjusted swivel chairs -- all of it -- irritated him, rather than giving him inspiration. and so he hurried his way, esiiecially when he passed that one fellow with the sad, frightened eyes, who touched his slim hands at the papers on his desk, like a cautious fawn testing the soundness of the earth in front of him. What was his name? Linden? God, Cutter thought, the epitome of the breed, this man: sallow and slow and so hesitant that he appeared to be about to leap from his chair at the slightest alarm. Cutter broke his aloofness long enough to glare at the man, and Linden turned his frightened eyes quickly to his desk and began shuffling his papers nervously. Some day. Cutter promised himself, he was going to stop in front of the man and shout, "Booo!" and scare the poor devil to hell and back. He pushed the glass doors that led to his own offices, and moving into Lucile's ante-room restored his humor. Lucile, matronly yet quick and youthfully spirited, smiled at him and met his eyes directly. Here was some strength again, and he felt the full energy of his early-morning drive returning fully. Lucile, behind her desk in this plain but expensive reception room, reminded him of fast, hard efficiency, the quality of accomplishment that he had dedicated himself to. "Goddamned sweet morning, eh, Lucy?" he called. "Beautiful, George," she said. She had called him by his first name for years. He didn't mind, from her. Not many could do it, but those who could, successfully, he respected. "What's up first?" he asked, and she followed him into his own office. It was a high-ccilinged room, with walls bare e.xcept for a picture of Alexander Hamilton on one wall, and an award plaque from die State Chamber of Commerce on the op)osite side of the room. He spun his leather-cushioned swivel chair toward him and sat down and placed his thick hands against the surface of the desk. Lucile took the only other chair in the office, to the side of the desk, and flipped open her appointment pad. "Quay wants to see you right away. Says it's important." Cutter nodded slightly and closed his eyes. Lucile went on, calling his appointments for the day with clicking precision. He stored the information, leaning back in his chair, adjusting his mind to each, so that there would be no energy wasted during the hard, swift day. "That's it," Lucile said. "Do you want to see Quay?" "Send him in," Cutter said, and he was already leaning into his desk, signing his name to the first of a dozen letters which he had dictated into the machine during the last ten minutes of the preceding day. Lucile disappeared, and three minutes later Robert Quay took her place in the chair beside Cutter's desk. He was a taller man than Cutter, and thinner. Still, tliere was an athletic grace about him, a surencss of step and facial expression, that made it obvious that he was physically fit. He was single and only thiity-fue, twelve years younger than Cutter, but he had been with Cutler Products, Inc. for thirteen years. In college he had been a Phi Beta Kappa and lettered three years on the varsity as a quarterback. He was the kind of rare combination that Cutter liked, and Cutter had ofTcred him more than the Chicago Cardinals to get him at graduation. Cutter felt Quay's presence, without looking up at him. "Coddamned sweet morning, eh. Bob?" "It really is, George," Quay said. "What's up?" Gutter stopped signing, having finished the entire job, and he stared directly into Quay's eyes. Quay met the stare unflinchingly. "Fve got a report from Sid Perry at Adacam Research." "Your under-cover agent again, eh?" Quay grinned. Adacam Research conducted industrial experimentation which included government work. The only way to find out what really went on there. Cutter had found out, was to find a key man who didn't mind talking for a certain amount of compensation, regardless of sworn oaths and signatures to government statements. You could always get somebody. Cutter knew, and Quay had been able to get a young chemist, Sidney Perry. "Okay," Cutter said. "What are they doing over there?" "There's a fellow who's ollered Adacam his project for testing. They're highly interested, but they're not going to handle it." "Why not?" Quay shrugged. "Too touchy. It's a device that's based on electronics -- " "What the hell is touchy about electronics?" "This deals with the human personality," Quay said, as though that were explanation enough. Cutter understood. He snorted. "Christ, anything that deals with the human personality scares them over there, doesn't it?" Quay spread his hands. "All right," Cutter said. "What's this device supposed to do?" "The theory behind it is to produce energy units which reach a plane of intensity great enough to effect the function of the human ego." "Will it?" Cutter never wasted time on surprise or curiosity or theory. His mind acted directly. Would it or wouldn't it? Performance versus non-performance. Efficiency versus inefficiency. Would it improve production of Cutter Products, Inc., or would it not? "Sid swears they're convinced it will. The factors, on paper, check out. But there's been no experimentation, because it involves the human personality. This thing, when used, is supposed to perform a definite personality change on the individual subjected." "How?" "You know the theory of psycltiatric therapy -- the theory of shock treatment. The effect is some what similar, but a thousand times more effective." "What is the effect?" "A gradual dissolving of inferiority influences, or inhibitions, from the personality. A clear mind resulting. A healthy ego." "And?" "Confidence." Cutter stared at Quay's eyes, assimilating the information. "That's all very damned nice. Now svhere does it fit in with Cutter Products?" Quay drew a notebook from his coat pocket swiftly. "You remember that efficiency check we had made two months ago -- the rating of individual departments on comparable work produced?" Cutter nodded. Quay looked at his notebook. "All administrative personnel departments showed an average of -- " "Thirty-six point eight less efficiency than the skilled and unskilled labor departments," Cutter finished. Quay smiled slightly. He snapped the notebook shut. "Right. So that's our personnel efficiency bug." "Christ, I've known that for twenty years," Cutter snapped. "Okay," Quay said quickly, alerting himself back to the serious effort. "Now then, you'll remember we submitted this efficiency report to Babcock and Steele for analysis, and their report ofl'eied no answer, because their experience showed that you alu'oyt get that kind of ratio, because of personality differences. The administrative personnel show more infieriority influences per man, thus less confidence, thus less efficiency." "I remember all that," Cutter said. "Their report also pointed out that this inevitable lo.ss of efficiency is leveled out, by proportionately smaller wage compensation. The administrative personnel gets approxiinatcly twenly-fivc percent less compensation tlian the skilled labor personnel, and the l emaining eleven point eight percent loss of efficiency is made up by the more highly efficient unskilled labor receiving approximately the same compensation as the administrative personnel." "I remember all that nonsense, too," Cutter reddened faintly with a sudden anger. He did not believe tlie statistics were nonsense, only that you .should expect to write off a thirty-six point eight effici'ncy loss on the basis of adjusted compensation. A thirty-six point eight efficiency loss was a comparable loss in profits. You never compensated a loss in profits, except by erasing that loss. "And so tliis is supposed to fix it?" Quay's head bobbed. "It's worth a try. it seems to me. I've talked to Sid about it extensively, and he tells me that Bolen, who's developed stall enough units to cover the entire administrative force, from the department-head level down." "How?" Quay motioned a hand. "It's no larger than a slightly thick saucer. It could be put inside the chairs." Quay smiled faintly. "They sit on it, you see, and -- " Cutter was not amused. "How much?" "Nothing," Quay said quickly. "Absolutely nothing. Bolen wants actual tests badly, and the Iirstitute wouldn't do it. Snap your fingers, and give him a hundred and fifty people to work on, and it's yours to use for nothing. He'll do tJie installing, and he wants to keep it secret. It's essential, he says, to get an accurate reaction from the subjects effected, For him it's perfect, because we're running a continuous efficiency check, and if this thing does the job like it's supposed to do it, we'll have gained the entire benefits for nothins'. Huw can we lose?" Cutter stared at Quav for a moment, his mind working swiftly. "Call Horner in on this, but nobody else. Absolutely nofiodv else. Tell Horner to write up a ( onlracl for this fellow to sign. Gel a clause in there to the effect that this fellosv, Bolen, assumes all responsibility for any effects not designated in the defining part of the contract. Fix it up so that he's entirely liable, then get it signed, and let's see what happens." Quay smiled fully and stood up. "Right, sir." He had done a good job, lie knew. This was the sort of thing that would keep him solidly entrenched in Cutter's favor. "Right, George," he said, remembering that he didn't need to call Cutter sir anymore, but he knew he wouldn't hear any more from Cutter, because Cutter was already looking over a blueprint, eyes thin and careful, mind completely adjusted to a new problem. E dward bolen called the saucer-sized disk, the Gonfidet. He was a thin, short, smiling man with fine brown hair which looked as though it had just been ruffled by a higii wind, and he moved. Cutter noticed, with qtiick, but certain motions. The installing wa.s done two nights after Cutter's lawyer, Homer, had written up the contract and gotten it signed by Bolen. Only Quay, Bolen, and Cutter were present. Bolen fitted the disks into the base of the plastic chair cushions, and he explained, as he inserted one, then another: "The energy is inside each one, you see. The life of it is indefinite, and the amount of energy used is proportionate to the demand created." "What the hell do you mean by energy?" Cutter demanded, watching the small man work. Bolen laughed contentedly, and Quay flushed with embarrassment over anyone laughing at a question out of Cutter's lips. But Cutter did not react, only looked at Bolen, as though he could see somehow, beneath that smallness and quietness, a Certain strength. Quay had seen that look on Cutter's face before, and it meant simply that Cutter would wait, analyzing expertly in the meantime, until he found his advantage. Quay wondered, if this gadget worked, how long Bolen would own the rights to it. Cutter drove the Cadillac into Hallery Boulevard, as though the automobile were an English Austin, and just beyond the boundaries of the city, cut olT into the hills, sliding into the night and the relative darkness of the exclusive, sparsely populated Green Oaks section. Ten minutes later, his house, a massive stone structure which looked as though it had been shifted intact from the center of some medieval moat, loomed up, gray and stony, and Capra, his handyman, took over the car and drove it into the garage, while Cutter strode up the wide steps to the door. Niels took his hat, and Mary was waiting for him in the library. She was a rather large woman, although not fat, and when she wore high heels -- which she was not prone to do, because although Cutter would not  have cared, she kept trying .to project into other people's minds and trying, as she said, "Not to do anything to them, that I wouldn't want them to do to me." -- she rose a good inch above Cutter. She was pleasant humored, and cooperative, and the one great irritant about her that annoyed Cutter, was the fact that she was not capable of meeting life wholeheartedly and with strength. She steadily worried about other people's feelings and thoughts, so that Cutter wondered if she were capable of the slightest personal conviction. Yet that weakness was an advantage at the same time, to him, because she worked con.stantly toward making him happy. The house was run to his minutest liking, and the servants liked her, so that while she did not use a strong enough hand, they somehow got things done for her, and Cutter had no real complaint. Someday, he knew, he would be able to develop her into the full potential he knew she was capable of achieving, and then there wouldn't be even that one annoyance about her. He sat down in the large, worn, leather chair, and she handed him a Scotch and water, and kissed his cheek, and then sat down opposite him in a smaller striped-satin chair. "Did you have a nice day, dear?" she asked. She was always pleasant and she always smiled at him, and she was indeed a handsome woman. They had been married but five ycar.s, and she was almost fifteen years younger than he, but they had a solid understanding. She respected his work, and she was earefil with the money he allowed her, and she never forgot the Scotch and water. "The day was all right," he said. "My goodness," she said, "you worked late. Do you want dinner right away?" "I had some sandwiches at the office." he said, drinking slowly. "That isn't enough," she said reproachfully, and he enjoyed hi'r concern over him. "You'd better have some nice roast beef that Andre did just perfectly. And there's some wonderful dressing that I made myself, for just a small salad." He smiled finally. "All right," he said. "All light." She got up and kissed him again, and he relaxed in tlic large chair, sipping contentedly at his drink, li.stening to her footsteps hurrying away, the sound another indication that she was doing something for him. He felt tired and easy. He let his mind relax with his body. The gadget, the Confidet; that was going to work, he knew. It would erase the last important bug in his operational efficiency, and then he might even exand, the way he had wanted to all along. He closed hi.s eyes for a moment, tasting of his contentment, and then he heard the sound of hi.s dinner being placed on the dining room table, and he stood up briskly and walked out of the library. He really was hungry, he realized. Not only hungry but, he thought, he miglit make love to Mary that evening. T he first indication that the Confidet might be working, came three weeks later, when Quay handed Cutter the report showing an efficiency increase of # percent. "I think that should tell the story," Quay s.iid elatedly. "Doesn't mean anything," Cutter said. "Could be a thousand other factors besides that damned gimmick." "But we've never been able to .show more than one toint live variance on the administ! ati e checks." "The trouble with you. Quay," Cutter said brusquely, "is you keep looking for miracles. You think the way to get things in this world is to hope real hard. Nothing comes easy, and I've got half a notion to get those damned silly things jerked out." He bent over his work, obviously finished with Quay, and Quay, deflated, paced out of lire office. Cutter smiled inside the empty office. He liked to see Quay's enthusiasm broken now and then. It took that, to mold a really good man, because that say he as.suitied real strength after a while. If he got knocked down and got up enough, he didn't fail a;tart when he hit a n'ally tough obstacle. Cutter was not unhajjpy about the efficiency figmes at all, and he knew as well as Quay that they were deci.sive. Give it another two weeks, he thought, and if the increase was comparable, then they might have a real improvement on their hands. Those limp, jumpy creatures on the desks out there might actually start earning their keep. He was thinking about that, what it would mean to the total profit, when Lucilc opened hLs door and lie caught a glimpse of the oflice outside, including the clerk with the sad, frightened eyes. Kvi'ii you, Linden, Cutter thought, we might even impove you. The increase was comparable after another two weeks. In fact, the efficiency figure jumped to #. Quay was too e.cited to be knocked down this time, and Cutter was unable to suppress his own pleasure. "This is really it this time, George," Quay said. "It really is. And here." He handed Cutter a set of figurc.s. "Here's what accounting estimates the profit to be on this eight-nine figure." Cutter nodded, his eyes thinning the slightest bit. "We won't see that for a while." "No," Quay said, "but we'll see it! We'll sure as hell sec it! And if it goes much higher, we'll absolutely balance out!" "What does Bolen figure the top to be?" "Ten percent." "Why not thirty-.six point eight?" Cutter said, his eyes bright and narrow. Quay whistled. "Even at ten, at the wage we're paying -- -" "Never settle for quarters or thirds," Cutter said. "Get the whole thing. Send for Bolen. I want to talk to him. And in the meantime. Bob, this is such a goddamned sweet morning, what do you say we go to lunch early?" Quay blinked only once, which proved his adaptability. Cutter had just asked him to lunch, as though it were their habit to lunch together regularly, when in reality, Quay had never once gone to lunch with Cutter before. Quay was quite nonchalant, however, and he said, "Why, fine, George. I think that's a good idea." B olen appeared in Cutter's office the next morning, smiling, his eyes darting quickly about Cutter's desk and walls, so that Cutter felt for a moment, that showing Bolen anything as personal as his office, was a little like letting the man look into his brain. "Quay tells me you've set ten percent as the top efficiency increase we can count on, Bolen." Cutter said it directly, to the point. Bolen smiled, examining Cutter's hands and suit and eyes. "That's right, Mr. Cutter." "Why?" Bolen placed his small hands on his lap, looked at the tapered fingers, then up again at Cutter. He kept smiling. "It's a matter of saturation." "How in hell could ten percent more efficiency turn into saturation?" "Not ten percent more efficiency," Bolen said quietly. "Ten percent effect on the individual who creates the efficiency. Ten percent effect of that which causes him to be ten percent more efficient." Cutter snorted. "Whatever the hell that damned gimmick does, it creates confidence, drive, strength, doesn't it? Isn't that what you said?" "Yes," Bolen said politely. "Approximately." "Can you explain to me then, how ten percent more confidence in a man is saturation?" Boll'll studied what he was going to say carefully, smiling all the while. "Some men," he said very slowly, "are difl'erent than others, Mr. Cutter. Some men will read to personality changes as ahriipt as this in different ways than others. You aren't too concerned, are you, with what those changes might already have done to any of the individuals affected?" "Hell, no," Cutter said loudly. "Why should I be? All I'm interested in is efficiency. Tell me about efficiency, and I'll know what you're talking about." "All light," Bolen said. "We have no way of knowing right now which men have been affected more than others. All we have is an average. The average right now is eight and nine-tenths percent. But perhaps you have some workers w'ho clo not react, because they really do not suffer the lacks or compulsions or inhibitioas that the Confidet is concerned with. Perhaps they arc w'orking at top efficiency right now, and no amount of further subjection to the Confidet will change them." "All right then," Cutter .said cjuickly, "we'll ferret that kind of deadwood out, and replace them!" "How will you know which are deadwood?" Bolen asked pleasantly"Individual checks, of course!" Bolen shook his head, looking back at his tapering fingers. "It won't necessarily work. You see, the work that these men are concerned with is not particularly demanding work, is it? And that means you want to strike a balance between capability and demand. It's the unbalance of the.se things that creates trouble, and in your ease, tin; dcmatiil outweighed the capability. jNow, if you get a total tcn-piTccnl iuiu-.ivc, tlicn you're balanced. Il yun ocr tliat, you'll break tlic b.il.imi' .ill over again, except th.il iMii'll b.iw. ill certain demand of llic wuil..." "Cood," Cuiiri...lid ".-nv man who's capability iuitu'-i"li . ihr work he's doing will siinpK l.rrp increasing his efficiency." Bolen .shook his head. "Nu. lb 'll react quite the other way. lie'll Iominterest, because the woik will no longer be a challenge, and ilicn ilnefficiency will drop." Cutter's Jaw hardened. ".-Ml righi then, ril move that man up, and fill his place with someone else," Bolen looked at Cutter's eyes, examined them curiously. "Some men ha'c a great deal of latent talent, Mr. Cutter. This talent leleased -- " Cutter frowned, studying Bolen carefully. Then he laughed suddenly. "You think I might not be able to handle it?" "Well, let's say that you've got a stable of gentle, quiet marcs, and you turn (hem suddenly into tborougbbreds. You have to make allowances for that, Mr. Cutler. The same stalls, the same railings, the same stable boys might not be able to do the job anymore." "Yes," Cutter said, smiling without humor, "but the oiuner has nothing to do with stalls and railings and stable boys, only in (be sense that they are subsidiary. The owner is the owner, and if lie ha.s to make a few sulrsidiary cliang's, all right. But nothing really affects the owner, no matter whether you've got gentle marcs or thoroughbreds." Bolen nodded, as though he had expected that exact answer. "You are a very certain man, aren't you, Mr. Cutter?" "Would I be here, in this office, heading this company, if I weren't, Bolen?" Bolen smiled. Cutter straightened in his chair. "All right, do we go on? Do we shoot for the limit?" Bolen chose his words carefully. "I am interested in testing my Confidet, Mr. Cutter. This is the most important thing in the world to me. I don't recommend what you want to do. But, as long as you'll give me accurate reports on the effects of the Confidet, I'll go along with you. Providing you grant me one concession." Cutter frowned. "I want our written contract dissolved." Cutter reddened faintly. Nobody ever demanded anything of him and got it easily, but his mind turned over rapidly, judging the increase in efficiency, the increase in profits. He would not necessarily have to stop with administrative personnel. There were other departments, too, that could stand a little sharpening. Finally he nodded, reluctantly. "All right, Bolen." Bolen smiled and left quickly, and Cutter stared at his desk for a moment, tense. Then, he relaxed and the hard sternness of his face softened a bit. He put his finger on his desk calendar, and looked at a date Lucile had circled for him. He grinned, and picked up the telephone, and dialed. "This is George H. Cutter," he said to the man who answered. "My wife's birthday is next Saturday. Do you remember that antique desk I bought her last year? Good. Well, the truth is, she uses it all the time, so this year I'd like a good chair to match it. She's just using an occasional chair right now, and..."  her, Mary liked his gift e.xtremely well, and night after night, after the birthday, he came home to find her at the desk, using the chair, captaining her house and her servant staff. And the improvement was noticeable in her, almost from the first day. Within a month, he could detect a remarkable change, and for the first time, since they had been married, Mary gave a dinner for thirty people without crying just before it started. There were other changes. Quay brought in efficiency report after efficiency report, and by the end of three months, they had hit eighteen and seven-tenths percent increase. The administrative office was no longer the dull, listless place it had been; now it thrived and hummed like the shop below. Cutter could see the difference with his own eyes, and he could particularly see the differences in certain individuals. Brow'n and Kennedy showed remarkable improvement, but it was really Harry Linden who astonished Cutter. An individual check showed a sixty-percent increase by Linden, and there was a definite change in the man's looks. He walked differently, with a quick, virile step, and the look of His face and eyes had become strong and alive. He began appearing early in the morning, ahead of the starting hour, and working late, and the only time he missed any work hours, was one afternoon, during whit h, Lueilc informed Cutter, he had appeared in court for his divorce trial. Within a iiionlh, Cutter had fired Stole and Lackter and Cirant, as department heads, and replaced them with Brown, Kennedy, and Linden. He had formulated plans for installation of tile Confidet.s in the drafting department and the supply depnitmeiit, ami already the profits of im:reasecl cfl'icicney were heginiiing to show in the naords. Cutter was full of new enthusiasm and ambition, and tliere was only one thorn in the entire development. Quay had resigned. Cutter had heori startled and extremely angry, but Quay had been unperturbed and stubborn. "Fve enjoyed working with you immensely, George, liut my mind is made up. No hard feelings:'" Cutter had not even shaken his hand. Jl had bothered him for days, and lie (.lieeked every industrial coinKiny ill th' area, to see where Quay had found a belter position. He was highly surprised, when he learned, finally, that Quay had purchased ;t small boat and was earning his livaiig by earring fishermen out onto the Bay . Quay hatl also riiarried, lour days alter liis rc.signation. and Cutter pushed the entire thing out ol his mind, c liecking it oH to p.irtial insanity. By February o) the iirxt year, lie had jiromoled Harry Linden to Quay's old job. gotten rid of the deadwood that showed up so plainly on the individual checks, and the total effieieney average had reached thirty-three percent. His and Mary's anniversary was on the fourth of March, and when that day arrived, he was ca-rtaiii llial he had reached that point wheie lie lould expand to another plan!. He was aboul to order her a mink stole in celi-bration, but it was also that day that be was inlormed that she was suing him lor dicoree. He rushc'd home, furious, hiU site was gone. She had taken her clothes and jewelry and the second Cadillac. In fact, all that slic had left ol her personal possessions were the anticue dc'sk and chair. When the trial was over, months later, she had won enough support to take her to France, where, he learned, she ptirchased ;i chateau at Clannes. He tried to lose himself in lus work, but for the first time in his life, he had begun to get faintly worried. It was only a sliver of worrv. but it kept him from going on with the expansion. Stocks in the company had turned over at an amaingly rapid rate, and while it was still nothing more than intuition on his part, he began to tighten uj. readving himsell to meet anything. d'he e)!osioii came in July. Drindor Products had picked up forty-nine pereeiit of tlie stock on the market, by using secondary buvers. T here liad lieen a leak soniecvhere. Cutter realized, that had told his (cniipctitor, Drindor, the kind of profit he was making. He knew wlio it had been instantly, but belorr he could tire Harry Linden, all of his walls crash(,'d down. Four months before, to put more esprit de corps into Linden, he had allowed Linden eight shares of his own stock, intending to pick it up later from the market. Linden had coerced with Drindor. Cutter lost control. A board of directors was elected by Drindor, and Drindor assumed the presidency by proxy. Harry Linden took over Cutter's office, as Vice President In Charge. Cutter had wildly ordered Edward Bolen to remove the Confidets one week before, but even then he had known that it was too late, and the smiling, knowing look on Bolen's face had infuriated him to a screaming rage. Bolen remained undisturbed, and Cuietly carried the disks away. Cutter, when he left his office that final day, moved slowly, very slowly. H e brooded for many long days after that, searching his mind for a way to counterattack. He still had enough stock to keep him comfortable if he lived another hundred years. But he no longer had the power, and he thirsted for that. He turned it around and around in his brain, trying to figure out how he could do it, and the one thing he finally knew, the one certain thing, was that if he used enough drive, enough strength, then he would regain control of the company he had built with his own hands and mind. He paced the library and the long living room and the dining room, and his eyes were lost, until he saw, through the doorway of the sewing room, that desk and that chair, and he remembered he hadn't done anything about that. He paused only briefly, because he had not lost an ounce of his ability to make a sudden decision, and then he removed that disk and carried it to the library and fitted it under the cushion of the large, worn, leather chair. By fall, he had done nothing to regain control, and he was less certain of how he should act than he had been months before. He kept driving by the plant and looking at it, but he did so carefully, .so that no one would see him, and he was surprised to find that, above all, he didn't want to face Harry Linden. The memory of the man's firm look, the sharjj, bold eyes, frightened him, and tlie knowledge of his fright crushed him inside. He wished desperately that Mary were back with him, and he even wrote her letters, pleading letters, but they came back, unopened. Finally he went to see Robert Quay, because Quay was the only man in bis memory whom he somehow didn't fear talking to. He found Quay in a small cottage near the beach. There was a six-day old infant in a crib in the bedroom, and Quay's wife was a sparklingeyed girl with a smile that made Cutter feel relatively at ease for the first time in weeks. She politely left them alone, and Cutter sal there, embarrassed faintly, but glad to be in Quay's home and presence. They talked of how it had been, when Quay was with the company, and finally Cutter pushed himself into asking about it: "I've often wondered. Bob, why you left?" Quay blushed slightly, then grinned. "I might as well admit it. I got one of those things from Bolen, and had it installed in my own chair." Cutter thought about it, surprised. He cleared his throat. "And then you quit?" "Sure," Quay said. "All my life. I'd wanted to do just what I'm doing. But things ju.st came easy to me, and the opportunities were always there, and I just never had the guts to pass anything by. Finally I did." Quay smiled at him, and Cutter shifted in his chair. "The Confidet did that." Cutter nodded. It came to him suddenly, something he'd never suspected until that moment. There was something very definitely wrong with what had happened to him. The Confidet had effected everyone but him; there must have boon something using. It had worked with Mary, but hadn't Bolen said something about the energy being used in proportion to the demand? Mary had certainly created a demand. Bolen said the life of it was indefinite, but couldn't the energy have been usi'd up? "Ah," he said carefully, smiling, to Quay. "You wouldn't have it around, would you? That Confidet of yours?" "Oh, hell, no," Quay said. "I gave it to Bolen a long time ago. He came around for it, in fact. Said he had to keep track of all of them." Cutter left hurriedly, with Quay and his wife following him to his car. He drove straight to Bolen's house. Fury built inside of him. All this time, Bolen had kept track of his Confidet, the one that Mary had u.sed, and all this time, he had known Cutter still had it. Cutter was furious over the realization that Bolen had been using him for experimentation. and .dso because the Confidet that he h.id tried to use had turned worthless. All his hatred, all his anger churned inside of liini like the heat from shaken coal', but when he walked up the p.iih to Bolen's small house, he did so cuii tly, with extreme care. When he saw Bolen's face in the doorway, he wanteil to strike the man, but he kept his hands quietly at his sides; and though he hated himself for it, he ecn .smiled a little at the man. "Come in," Bolim smiled, and he spoke softly, and at the same time he examined Cutter with quick, penetrating eye'. "Come in, Mr. Cutter." Cutter wanted to stand there and demand another Confidet, a good one, and not walk inside, politely, like he did. And he wished that his voice would come out, quickly, with the power and hate in it diat he had once been capable of. But for some reason, he couldn't say a word. Bolen was e.xtremely polite. "You've been using that Confidet, haven't you?" He spoke gently, almost as though he were speaking to a frightened child. "Yes," Cutter managed to say. "And what you expected to happen, didn't. That's what you want to tell me, isn't it?" Cutter's insides quivered widi rage, but he was able only to nod. "Would you like to know why?" Bolen said. Cutter rubbed his damp palms over his knees. He nodded. Bolen smiled, his eyes sparkling. "Very simple really. It wasn't the fault of the Confidet so much, Mr. Cutter, as you. 