"Amalthea," he said, once he had finished and had wiped his hands on the blanket upon which he sat, "where did you sleep last night?" "Nowhere," Amalthea answered. "I slept not at all." There was a teasing smile on her face. "You know what I mean," Joval said, annoyed but knowing that he had no right io be. "A wife is not required to tellher husband of the Night Before the Sending," Amalthea told him. "Yes, I know," Joval replied. "But you know with whom I was." "Yes, everyone knows where you were," Amalthea said. "Is Frid's yellowhaired wife as good at those games as the young men say she is?" time of the sending "That is none of ypur business!" "I know. I am just making a point." "Very well." Joval sighed. "Keep your secret." And with that he lay down within the lean-to and almost immediately fell asleep. When he awoke Sun had vanished and what passed for night on this side of Thisda had come, a pearly gray night illuminated by the reflected light of Big Basta. Famlydogs roamed the Valley of the Ship and howled forlornly at the sky. Wrapping his blanket around himself for warmth since it would be very cold soon, Joval told his family that he would return for breakfast about the time of the. rising of Sun, then went back to the Ship. lspeed potential. Repeat, we no longer have pseudospeed potential. We are... " Theo was repeating the words for the twentieth time when Joval resumed his place in the line on the bridge and looked again through the press of bodies at the glowing lights of the radio control panel. So it would go until tomorrow dawn, when the Sending would end and the Receiving would begin. So Joval stood and watched and unconsciously scratched at vermin that crawled out of his blanket and wondered and prayed and thought and waited. It was a good Sending. Pray it would be a true Receiving. slipped out of the Ship and had a quick breakfast as Sun rose above the horizon. Then, as quickly, they hurried back to the Ship so that they would be there when the Sending ended and the Receiving began. Moments after he had resumed his place on the bridge, Joval heard the Captain say: "It is time to end the Sending." Theo concluded the ritual words and turned to old Robt Sona Dave, his twisted mouth smiling. He knew he had done well. "Cease transmission. Go into receiving mode." Glancing at the open Manual, Theo's hands fell across the controls, snapping off the transmitter's switches, then snapping on those of the receiver portion. Receiver from Standby to Operation. Preselector adjusted. Band lator. RF Demodulator. Audio Demodulator. All on, operating, adjusted. For a few moments there was stark and total silence on the bridge. Men held their breaths and waited. Then the loudspeaker of the receiver came to life, snapping, crackling and roaring the strange, angry whispering of the radio gods. "Maxium audio gain," the Captain said. IF Theo adjusted a single control and the whispering roar became louder. M en had done all that they could do. Now it was the turn of the gods, but the gods did not choose to speak in the words of men -- not at first, at least. Joval grew very tired. One night of drinking and love-making with demanding Melinda, a second night of Sending and very little sleep in between were beginning to tell. Joval was not as young as he had once been. His eyelids grew heavy; his feet and legs ached; again he was hungry and thirsty and the waste fluids of his body demanded discharge. But he did not leave the bridge. No man leaves the bridge during a Receiving. That is the most crucial time of ail. No chances are to be taken. Fatigue finally became too much for him. He leaned back against the nearest bulkhead and let his eyelids flutter shut. He began sinking into a soft, pleasant, yet oddly uncomfortable blackness. The subspace radio's loudspeaker suddenly changed tone. The vague crackling whisper was drowned out by a strahge, unfamiliar squeal that rose in pitch until it hurt Joval's ears; then he could no longer hear it. Moments later came another sound -- words, human words! "'... for delivery to...on the...of albuti with... The squeal returned. The gasps of startled men filled the bridge. "The gods -- " a dozen voices said. "Earth -- " said another dozen. "Wait!" ordered the Chief Geriat. "Be silent!" The loudspeaker whispered and squealed and spoke again: "... items urgently needed... would suggest that... relay for Earth..." The holy word! Earth. It was Earth. It was a true Receiving! "... for immediate shipment The receiver squealed one final time, returned to the same monotonous whisper. White-faced, obviously shaken, old Robt Sona Dave gathered the four other Geriats on the bridge and took them as far away from the subspace radio position as possible, where they conferred in whispers. Theo remained at his position, looking directly at the radio panel, something like triumph on his face. the bridge, shared that triumph, but only for a short time. Then questions and doubts began to creep into his mind. The words had been strange and garbled and broken, only half understandable, but he could not help but speculate upon them. It must be Earth, he thought, or at least related to Earth since that holy name had been spoken. But... well, did it really sound as if the speaker were talking to them, to the men of Thisda? Were there not others among the distant starworlds? Had not the Ancients said so? And did they, these other men, not talk among themselves by means of subspace radio? Could it be, really, that they were just hearing fragments of such a conversation? Might it be just that? Joval, as much as any of the others, wanted to believe that this was a true Receiving, but it seemed to him that what had just taken place was not enough. Perhaps they would hear that voice again, and perhaps then it would truly be speaking to them. The Geriats stood at the far end of the bridge, talking in their low whispers and shaking their heads slowly. One by one they returned to the radio position. "Brothers," said Robt Sona Dave, speaking above the whispering noise of the radio, "listen to me. What we have have just heard was, in truth, a manifestation of the gods. We have been witness to a miracle." He paused. "But not our miracle." There were moans and then stunned silence as the truth began to sink in. Joval knew that he was right. It was no Receiving. "Though none are alive who remember it, this has happened before," the Captain was saying. "The Book of the Old Men tells us of three such times that words have been heard like this. But they were not true Receivings. The words were not meant for us. We must wait. Perhaps, since the gods have shown their goodness, they shall -- " Joval did not listen any longer. He wanted to weep, but all he could do was stare at the lights of the radio control panel and wait for the Receiving to be over. No one on Earth cared about them. The gods were capricious and malicious and a man who waited for a Receiving was a fool. D ay passed into night and night gradually moved toward morning. The radio's loudspeaker whispered and chattered and roar and clicked, but it did not speak again in the words of men. Theo Sona Weyam peered ever more intently at the dials and meters and lights of the panel before him, his hands beginning to twitch nervously. An awkward cough began in his throat and twice the youth at the end of the line was forced to go get him water. Dark rings formed under his eyes and his twisted mouth seemed to move without his realizing it. The Radioman's time was running out. And he knew it. The gods had teased him, laughed at IF him, and would ultimately punish him for attempting to Receive. So it had always been. Old Robt Sona Dave, leaning on his cane when he stood but more often sitting as the time drew by, showed some of the symptoms displayed by Theo, though there was nothing of personal fear in them. It was just another disappointment in a long life of disappointments. It was not likely that he would ever live to see another Sending. So be it. At last the Time of the Receiving was over. Awkwardly coming to his feet, aided by two of the other Geriats and supported by his cane, he said, "Mr. Communications Officer, you -- " "No!" Theo Sona Weyam cried suddenly. "No, please, wait a while longer, just a -- " "Mr. Communications Officer," the Captain began again, "you may now turn off -- " Theo suddenly came to his feet and stood defensively before the radio. "Give me more time. We shall Receive. I swear it." "You shall do as I say," Robt Sona Dave said sternly. "Wait, for the sake of the gods, please -- " The Old Chief Geriat's hand snapped out, the back of his knuckles struck across the scarred face of the Radioman. "Turn off the receiver," he said slowly, his anger barely controlled. "The Time of the Receiving is over." Slowly and painfully, like a man dying -- as in a way he was -- Theo Sona Weyam turned back to the subspace radio and slowly snapped one switch after another. The lights went dark. Torches were kindled and the procession was formed. One by one, led by the Captain, they filed out of the Ship, slowly, sadly. They had failed. VI T he beginning of the ceremony that marked the end of the Sending and Receiving took place before the tent of the Geriats, above the cold, dead ashes of fire and below the great fertility symbol. All the men and women who had come to the Sending drew close, forming a huge semicircle around the spot, knowing the inevitable outcome and knowing, too, what would happen that day before the Devouring of Sun. The Captain announced in the words of ancient ritual, that Earth had not answered. Then he ordered Theo Sona Weyam to come before him. The Radioman had aged a dozen years in the past hour. His eyes were blank and empty; his body was limp, his mouth twitched and his movements faltered as he walked to his assigned place before the Geriats. Starting in the next issue of IF Colin Kapp's new novel!... a missile fired across the stars to kill a man -- eons before he was born... "You are no longer Radioman of the Ship," Robt Sona Dave said. "Remove your uniform." Theo nodded vaguely and began loosening the buttons of the uniform blouse. After a few awkward moments he stood naked before the others, no different from anyone else. He was no longer a demigod, but just a man -- a man who had failed in a contest with the gods and would have to pay the price of failure. "Theo Sona Weyam of the Greatfamly Innman," the Chief Geriat began slowly, "the gods have shown disapproval of you, have deemed you unworthy bf being Radioman of the Ship. Have you anything to say for yourself?" Theo shook his head slowly, then finally managed, "No, sir." After a few moments of awkward silence, he fought out the words: "The gods know, Robt, I tried. I tried." "So be the will of the gods," Robt said, ignoring him. "Return the Manuals." Theo handed him the three tattered books. "Theo Sona Weyam, you have one final service to perform for the Ship," the Chief Geriat said. cold wind blowing along his naked back and seeping in through the flesh to his bones. No, it couldn't be that, he thought. Not Theo... "Yes, Geriat," Theo said brokenly. "Though you have failed, you have at least earned the right to suggest for us your replacement. Name us a man, good and true." For a few moments a chilled, frightened hush fell over the assembled men, the beginnings of which Joval had felt moments before. And Joval knew that he had a right to fear more than most, for he well knew that Theo Sona Weyam was no friend of his. Theo's almost inanimate eyes slowly scanned the crowd, stopping on one man, then moving on to another, picking face after face, then rejecting each. At last the eyes came to Joval; theystopped and peered deeply and long, bitter with hatred. IF "I suggest Joval Sona Ramon, the Knifemaker, as the next Radioman," Theo said slowly, something resembling life returning to his voice. The words were like the repeated blows of a hammer, but there was nothing Joval could do to avoid them. This, too, was as it must be. The Geriats stepped back away from the assembly, huddled for a moment, glanced over their shoulders at Joval and scratched their bearded chins. Somewhere off in the distance a woman sobbed, loudly and brokenly. "Joval Sona Ramon of the Greatfamly Heath, called the Knifemaker," the Chief Geriat said at last, returning to his place, "you have been suggested and approved. Come forward." Fear and a growing red hatred for Theo Sona Weyam filled J oval's breast, though there were no true thoughts in his mind. With great effort, he slowly walked to where the Geriats stood. "Accept your duty and these Manuals," he heard the Captain say as if from a very long way off, as if in a dream. "Study them well. Four years hence you shall Send Numbly, mechanically, Joval accepted the Manuals and fought to hold himselFerect. "Now, brothers, the gods pass judgment on Theo Sona Weyam," Robt Sona Dave said, though Joval hardly heard the words. fore the Ship, and the thoughts in his mind were vague, random and incoherent. Masai had watched his father with awe and fear, for now he was something more than just a man, something more than just his father. Filis had tried to speak, but had been unable; pained sobs had broken her words and she had covered her face and turned away. And Amalthea -- she had tried to comfort him, until that something that was in her mind and on her face had gotten the better of her... "Joval, my husband," she had said slowly, her voice husky, "I did James White's new novel!... men and women forced to survive in the realm of purest physics... not know he hated you so. I thought he -- he had forgotten it as you have. Joval, had I known... Forgive me for the Night Before the Sending. I did not know he hated you." She had turned away, hiding her tears, and Joval, only half comprehending, had turned to the Ship to watch what would happen there. Soon, he knew, the. pain would pass. He still had four years to live, to work, to study, to learn all that he could about the Sending and the Receiving and perhaps -- just perhaps -- he would be successful. He knew that there was an Earth. He had heard its name on the subspace radio. It was not a myth. It was real. Perhaps he could be the one. He glanced down at the books in his hands. One was the Operating Manual, and it was the most worn. In fact, the back was missing, as were a number of pages, though how many he could not tell. He looked at the last torn page, unconsciously reading the final lines: Since subspace energy is broadcast in a very narrow beam -- propagated as a beam of one meter in diameter and spreading no more than # X #-# kilometers per kilometer -- proper orientation of the ships integral hull antenna is of supreme importance over large interstellar distances. Should the antenna not be properly aimed, it ,, , A nd there the lines ended. What more the Manual had said, Joval could not even guess, and perhaps it was not important. But he would learn as well as he could. Someone ages before -- probably one of the Ancients with their marvelous writing instruments -- had scribbled a marginal note on the page, a scribble that Joval painfully deciphered. "The spread of the beam from UR-#-#-I-A to Earth should be no more than # X #-# kilometers. By my figures the power received on the Lunar grid would be about .# microrandals. This should be sufficient for reception -- if we could just get the damned thing oriented." Joval shook his head with incomprehension. He would learn. He would have to learn. Then he looked up at the Ship and the small, distant form of Theo Sona Weyam who was now taking his place atop the Ship's hull. Carefully the ex-Radioman was moving to his assigned spot, the very center of the bright metallic strips of the antenna. The Geriats had already filed into the Ship, taking their positions for this one last ceremony before the beginning of the Trading. Now, Joval thought vaguely, the Engineer, old Grego Sona James would be feeding power to the bridge, and the Captain, Robt Sona Dave, would be seating himself before the radio. Now he would begin IF flipping switches with the practiced ease of half a lifetime, building power, preparing to assist the gods in their judgment. The assembly began a prayer for the lost soul of Theo Sona Weyam, who had failed. What followed could not have lasted the hours it seemed, but only minutes. Theo took the position of prayer. A sparkle of violet light built up around him. The Final Sending began -- brief seconds, but enough for the will of the gods. T he antenna glowed brightly. Theo jumped to his feet, screamed and flung his arms skyward as if asking help from the gods who had condemned him. His nakedness seemed to hang in space for a moment -- then crumple, bursting into flames. His body was consumed in moments. Joval stood looking at the violet flickering that played across the antenna and rose into the sky. It was a thin, faint line that rose toward where Big Basta hung directly above the Ship; the Man-in-theSky was now at the point of Devouring Sun. The subspace waves moved away from Thisda toward the huge planet it circled -- straight, true, direct -- a meter-wide beam of energy that would end in the gaseous envelope and the rocky core of the monster world above. And as Sun vanished and the sky began to grow dark with the Devouring, Joval Sona Ramon, the Knifemaker, Radioman-elect, scratched at an insect bite and wondered what was the significance of that.  the Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Principal Speaker: Keith Laumer. For information: SanD Meschkow, # Larch wood Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #.  European Science Fiction Convention. Trieste, Italy. To be held in conjunction with the Trieste SF Film Festival. Membership: #, attending; #, Tony Lewis, # Unity Ave., Belmont, land Sapiro, Box #, University Sta#AA, Melbourne, Victoria #; O-okayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo. Convention address: Eurocon #, Case!la Postale #, #, Venezia, Italy. Send membership money via individual agents listed above. Across fho galaxy fho two racos of man soaght to dostroy oach othor -- fo provo fhoir humanity! I A ll nine at the meeting were 'identifiably in uniform. But a certain informality prevailed, peculiar to final briefings where everyone except the senior officer -- who was not going on the operation -- knew he or she might not return. This briefing was also unlike others in that the eight who faced General Print were in a sense only two. The four men were identical to the tenth decimal place. Even in their casualness they were the same -- all four had released the top two hooks of their tunics and all had thrown the left leg over the right knee. Tall and lean, each had close-cropped, prematurely graying hair. They were an amalgam of many races, white, brown, red, yellow and black, the result being, as often happened when races mingled, that they were at once striking and singularly handsome. The four girls were also identical, but not to infinity. Their uniforms were not quite uniform. One wore her tunic, two their underblouses and the fourth a red sweater which looked like a gesture of defiance coupled with the green uniform trousers. General Print said, "This, of course, is a unique project. There has never been one like it and there will never be another. Unless your descendants -- " "If any," one of the girls murmured, not loudly but audibly. The four men, as one, turned their heads to stare repressively at her. "We certainly hope there will be descendants," said the general. "We are hoping that on your return the four women will be..." He coughed awkwardly. Like many old soldiers. General Print could talk baldly and coldly of death, but was embarrassed by the processes of birth. He forced himself to go on. "The four women should -- on return to Eden -- be pregnant. What is your reaction?" The girl who had spoken before said, "You're asking quite a lot. General. At this moment, we are all pure and unsullied." The general would have replied seriously, but all four girls giggled. He said stiffly, "Am I to take it -- " One of the other girls said,' "Nevertheless, the proposition does interest us. Imagine being ordered to be a bad "girl for the good of one's race." General Print said coldly, "I won't make it an order. What must be agreed, however, is the matter of command. One of the men said, "Wil. It must be. He is the girls' father." A girl said, "We've no objection to Wil's being in charge of his side of the operation, but we have to make the big decisions." The general nodded. "No argument about that. Wil and the other Directors can advise, but you girls must take every .major decision. The next thing to be decided is which of you will be the senior -- " A chorus of protest rose. One said, "It won't work that way. One of us can't be placed over the others." General Print said doubtfully, "If you agree on that I suppose I must accept it. Now for the long view -- total success would mean your return with the information we want and particularly with the... with the other item we want -- and no casualties on either side. But I can't give you deHnite orders. One of you, perhaps all of you, may have to kill. But kill only in absolute necessity." After a long pause, he said again, "Absolute necessity. We are not at war. We don't want to be at war." Wil said, "General, my understanding is that it has always been our intention to -- " "On our own terms, in a chosen location, in our own time. Please be very clear on this. To have war forced on us as a result of this operation would mean failure. It might also mean disaster." The general then felt it was obligatory for him to make a final speech. "I don't suppose I'll be alive when you come back," he said. "I'll never know if this operation will be Eden's greatest triumph or greatest disaster. Perhaps none of you will know either -- although disaster can be achieved in a very short time, triumph could take centuries.One more thing I must tell you. Certain information about Eden and about yourselves has been denied you. It has been removed from your memories, because it is essential that the people you are going to meet should never learn it." The four men and the four girls were regarding him with new interest. Several started to speak. He held up his hand. "You must realize," he said in gentle reproof, "that this was not done lightly. However, the circumstances you may encounter are unimaginable. It may become necessary for you to know this very thing which has been deliberately kept from you. It has therefore been placed as a locked memory in Pariss's mind." Three of the girls turned to look at the fourth as if they could read the secret in her face. Pariss herself merely looked surprised. "If necessary," said the general, his voice sinking, growing husky with fatigue, "the rest of you together or any one of you -- or Pariss herself -- will be able to break the seal. You can guess how." He stood up and forced a smile. "That's all. And if I may borrow a phrase from the people you will be moving among, good lucky attacked. The Terran Defense Commission, which had set it in space, armed and manned it, did not regard as very likely the eventuality that it ever would be. One of ten mammoth fortresses miles beyond Pluto (the similarity in name had caused confusion many times and would continue to do so), it was not as much a guardian of the Solar System as a warning. The Adamites were not fools. The Terran Defense Commission relied quite cheerfully and confidently on one facet of Adamite philosophy and psychology -- to the Adamites, defeat was death, although death was not necessarily defeat. Any Adamite attack had to be an Adamite victory or it would not be undertaken. Make an Adamite victory impossible and you prevented the attack. Adamites and Terrans were not precisely enemies. But they were not precisely friends either. Both claimed to be the original, the only genuine article, the "real people." It was tacitly assumed that the human race could not evolve and had not evolved independently from scratch at opposite ends of the galaxy. Therefore, said the Terran group of colonized worlds, far back in history we must have had an interstellar civilization which colonized Eden. Therefore, said the Adamites, in a time before our written history, we must have colonized Earth. Being emotional -- or at the very least political -- these claims ignored anthropology or twisted it to predetermined ends. Eden had a head start in that their main planet was actually called Eden... Didn't the Terrans themselves have legends of a Garden of Eden? One day a neighbor of a great man in Earth's history, Abraham Lincoln was called to his door by the noise of children weeping. Lincoln was walking with his two IF small sons, who were both crying their eyes out. "What's the matter with the boys, Mr. Lincoln?" the neighbor asked. "Just what's the matter with the whole world," replied Lincoln sadly. "I've got three walnuts and each wants two." The galaxy was the three walnuts. And Earth and Eden each wanted two. T 'HE Fort Plato night checker saw the girl the moment she emerged on the green. His eye was drawn to the scanner frame by the movement of her vivid purple dress against the lush green of the grass. Since the windows of the checkpoint overlooked the green he left the scanners and went to the window. She was half running, half dancing. In the one-seventh Earth gravity her long full skirt whirled ecstatically about her. The checker, who was young, caught his breath. She was beautiful. Below the window was a duplicate set of alarm buttons. The checker's finger sought one, found it and hovered over it. The girl in the purple dress kicked off her shoes, spun twice and sank gracefully to the grass, her long skirt settling slowly in k perfect circle about her. She was breaking no regulation and represented no danger whatever. save to the checker's peace of mind. BUit was the checker's job to report and query anything out of the ordinary. After a moment he took his finger away from the button. Ten days earlier, after the sensor reported a ship passing within five scan showed that the ship was a war cruiser, he had given the alarm -- not a red alarm, merely a blue. Nevertheless, even a blue alarm was a matter for General Morrison himself. The general had come to stand by silent and watchful, until it turned out that reported herself to the checker on the previous shift. The general had erupted. He had been only a little unfair. Checker Alan Stewart, not having been told about the cruiser, had acted correctly. But Checker Alan Stewart should have been told about the cruiser -- what, the general had asked, was the use of having a bloody checker if-he didn't check, but simply panicked and stabbed every alarm button in sight the moment he saw any bloody thing? Checker Alan Stewart was sensitive. There remained, however something a little strange about the girl, something he could not put his finger on. Stewart went back to the scanners to take a closer look. I F HE wanted to he could spy on any of the five thousand men, women and children in Fort Plato imany of its fifty thousand rooms, offices, halls, cellars, bathrooms, corridors, stairways, armories or turrets. But no one of a peeping tom inclination had ever been made even a deputy relief assistant emergency checker, naturally. The checker was not a sentry. His function was rather that of a nightwatchman. Fort Plato, like most space stations, was run on a twelve-hour rather than a twentyfour-hour basis. The girl of course would be a night worker, a nurse or a technician seeking the deserted green for relaxation during a short break. Unwritten law prevented the checker from being a peeping tom. But a girl openly sunning herself on the green, under the direct view of the checkpoint windows, was as public as a noticeboard. On one of the scanners he brought her up to lifesize, half a meter from his face. She was even more beautiful close up than from a distance. Her beauty was exotic. Her cheeks were lean, her eyes gray and alert. Her eyebrows were thick and black and her dark hair, though neat, was quite short and not glamorous. The sunlight which bathed her had taken nine hours, twenty-five minutes and thirty-one seconds to reach her. It had had to be collected and focused on the green in order that she, far beyond the orbit of cold Pluto, could enjoy conditions similar to those on a sunny lawn on Earth. Above the green was the blue dome, scarcely distinguishable from a cloudless sky on Earth. In the center was what looked like the sun. It was time for a routine check. Sweeping the girl from the screen, Alan Stewart played a silent concerto on his buttons. All was exactly as he expected. The sensor purred and clicked somnolently. Outside Fort Plato no human beings were within its range. He strolled back to the window. The girl was standing up, putting her hand to the side fastenings of her dress. She was going to take it off. Stewart's temperature rose. She took it off. Stewart gulped. As she lay back oh the green, closing her eyes, he once again sensed the strangeness of her. His vague feelings never reached the point of uneasiness or suspicion. There had been a change of personnel when the supply ship called three weeks earlier. He took it for granted that she had arrived at that tim. Her sunmini was anything but exotic. Indeed, in its precise minuteness it was thoroughly conventional. His imagination was running away with him. H reached out to sweep her from the screens. IF Then he stopped. The girl had a scar on her abdomen. It was a tiny scar, and would have been imperceptible but for the fact that she had turned to lie on her side and the light struck her obliquely. That was an appendectomy scar. Stewart had no doubt of it. He had formerly been a hospital orderly and had seen such scars on the bodies of old people. The operation was now obsolete. Surgery, at any rate surgery in the sense of cutting the body open and blundering about inside it, was no longer necessary in the treatment of appendicitis and nobody under the age of forty had ever had an appendectomy. This girl was obviously under the age of forty. In a flash of insight, belated but comprehensive, he put a score of things together and his finger stabbed at Key #. The sirens, flashing lights, buzzers and bells of a red alarm were heard for the first time in Fort Plato. Less than five seconds later, the cacophony was shockingly augmented by the shrill whistle that meant the alarm was tod late -- the fort had already fallen. The checker knew the girl was a decoy who had played a part in making pdssible the incredible fall of Fort Plato. And he was the criminal who had let a pretty girl divert him from his duty. II gale on the planet Outward made a gale on Earth seem like a mere climatic fit of temper. Earth gales did not suddenly cease or instantly explode into insane, murderous rages -- Earth winds gusted, but conditions retained some semblance of consistency and could therefore be predicted up to a point. Gales on Outward were consistent only in being worse than expected most of the time, no matter how pessimistic the expectation! Fred Manvin was therefore about to close the gate of Camp Eleven and gratefully seek the comfort of his cellar, since there was no longer any possibility of traffic on the road from the west. Any mole that had missed the warnings would have turned off the road and dug in to wait out the weather. Then he stared. Clinging together desperately, two figures in white galesuits were coming along the road on foot. Their danger was considerable, although they were only some fifty meters from the gate. A gust might at any moment lift them and dash them to their deaths. As he peered through the flying dirt and dust, the wind somehow got a finger into one of the strangers' tunics and tore it away in a split second. It flew high in the air and disappeared. Galesuits were supposed to be proof against ripping, but in the Hnal analysis nothing was proof against an Outward gale. Perhaps because of the fusillade of tiny fragments flaying his naked back, perhaps because of the sudden chill, the man lost his balance and was dashed to the ground. He was saved from being bowled along it only by the desperate clutch of his companion. The two were now only fifteen meters from the gate. The nearly .naked man tried to get up but could not. A leg and an arm seemed to be damaged. Vocally consigning the regulations to hell, Fred Manvin went out and dragged the two inside. One of them, he established in the course of his ungentle handling, was a girl. He tripped the gate switch and hauled them . into the gatehouse, then down to the cellar. The man was bleeding from scores of small cuts caused by flying dust and tiny fragments. His left arm and his ankle were broken. The cellar was warm and starkly comfortable, though small. It was so well insulated that not a sound could be heard of the gale raging outside. Fred looked the man over first. He was forty or so, his dark hair graying at the temples. Naked to the waist, he was a fine figure of a man, powerful though slight. Blood streamed down his hairless body to his tight pants, but the many cuts were superficial and the arm fracture was a simple one which Fred, a general handyman, would have no difficulty in setting. The ankle was worse; there was a bone broken in the foot. Too, the man's head had been smashed against the road and, although conscious when he reached the cellar, he slumped senseless when Fred lowered him into a chair. "Flare," Fred said. "You do it." The girl took off her goggles. "What's that?" "Fire a flare," said Fred, bending over the injured man. "Certainly, if you'll tell me how." "Go up the stairs again and -- never mind. Sit down and don't bother me." Verne checked herself. She said coolly, "You fire the flare. I'll look after my father." Sal Slent was not, in fact, her father. He was her uncle. "You okay?" Fred asked. "I think so. Bruises, perhaps." She took off her helmet and tunic and Fred noticed that she was beautiful. He was not interested. Fred's wife was as massive as himself and skinny creatures like this girl seemed to him to belong to another race. "I'm Verne," she said. "My father's Sal Slent. I can look after him. I know what to do." "I guess I'll do this myself," said Fred. "Water over there. Wash all IF your dust off. You know what'll happen if you don't." Verne, probably the most selfreliant of the four girls, was annoyed at being dismissed as useless. However, it might be dangerous to say anything; she might reveal ignorance of things she ought to know. She ran cold water from a tank into a plastic basin, found a bar of hard yellow soap and washed her face and hands, wondering what the gatekeeper had meant when he had said. You know what'll happen if you don t... As her chill wore off she found out. The flying sand and dust had penetrated everywhere, into her hair, her galesuit and even her boots. She began to itch. She recalled references to "the itch" in radio messages their ship had picked up. The very soil was inimical to humans in this hostile world. F red was stripping Sal and cleansing his skin with tissues from a box. He'd be all right after ten days in bed, Fred said, though he'd hobble for a while longer. Finished at last, he put another chair under Sal's feet and propped him against the table. "Sleeping now," he said. "We'll leave him in peace. Now I'll try a flare, though it probably won't do any good." Verne wanted to ask about the absence of underground passages, of a phone, a radio, -- or at least a flashing alarm beam on the roof. Obligingly, unasked, Fred gave her part of the answer. "We extended the boundary last week. Needed more space. Of course you have to build the fence first, then develop the ground inside. Now tell me -- what were you doing out there?" "We weren't out there for fun," she said coldly. "Our mole toppled into a bog. We were lucky to get out." "Oh, the marsh? I know it. But hell, it's fifty meters off the road. You were crazy to drive fifty meters off the road." "There was rock the mole couldn't dig into." "Sure as hell there's rock, but it's only a short stretch. You should have kept close to the road." With visible restraint Verne said, "Thank you very much. Your advice comes a little late -- but they say better late than never." Fred frowned, trying to work that out. He decided it had been meant as a joke.and grinned. "Well, no harm done -- except you'll never see your mole again. The marshes on this hellish planet have never yet given back anything. Like some coffee?" "Yes, please." After all, despite their ordeal, despite Sal's injuries, despite her ignorance -- which might have made a keener observer than Fred Manvin suspicious -- all had gone reasonably well so far. Sheand Sal were in. Their part of the operation had started on a fairly successful note. Fred had told her himself that they would never see their mole again. It would not occur to him to doubt that the mole had ever existed. several in Jupiter's orbit, although far from the planet. At full efficiency, ships were capable of operating impudently within the mighty powerfield. Often, however, they were at much less than full efficiency and there had been many nasty accidents. The General Purposes stations in clear space were far more useful in an emergency than the stations on Jupiter's moons. Hugh Suyang, the commander of Station #, awoke to find his station no longer his. The last thing he could remember was going to bed in a normal and routine fashion. A certain tightness behind his eyes, a vague consciousness of the passage of considerable time, enabled him to guess that while asleep he had been drugged or gassed. When he opened his eyes in his tiny cabin, he saw a tall, lean man and a beautiful dark girl both in green uniforms which he did not recognize. "Pleased to meet you. Commander Suyang," said the man courteously. "I am Director Far Slent and this is my daughter Pariss." The circumstances of the Station # operation were different from those of Fort Plato and the pioneer settlement on the planet Outward. Hugh Suyang grasped the essential fact at once. "You're Adamites," he breathed. Director Slent nodded. "But please don't take precipitate action, Commander," he said. "In fact, please don't try to take action at all. The station is entirely in our hands. There are twenty-one of us and seven of you, giving us three to look after every one of you. You have all been disarmed, naturally, and we are all heavily armed. Appreciation of these facts -- " "Is it war?" Hugh asked bluntly. "No," said Far. "It is not war. I do not think it will ever be war. Call it research." Hugh would have liked to rise but he slept naked and the girl showed no sign of going. "I'll be very pleased to call it research," he said. "Pariss, do you mind handing me a glass of water? My mouth seems to be full of sand. Effects of the gas, no doubt." He saw respect in the eyes of the girl, who was impressed by his way of taking the situation. "You could have killed me," he said, sipping the water, "Tell me. IF what chance do I have of reaching my three score and ten?" Their slight puzzlement indicated that the reference was unknown to them, which was not surprising since there had been comparatively little contact between Terrans and Adamites. Biblical references could not be expected to mean much to them. Yet they understood the sense. "A good chance," the girl finally said, "if you don't try to be a hero." Far Slent explained further, "We want the station to run normally. Possibly you or one of your six colleagues might, in the next few weeks, get out a message, a warning, an alarm. We must warn you -- if that happens we will kill you all. Otherwise, when we go we shall leave you as we found you." "You speak our language well." Womanlike, the girl asked, "What did he say wrong?" Hugh smiled. "On the contrary, he was too correct. 'We shall leave you -- ' We don't louse up our syntax with too much grammar." "I think I like you," said the girl. "Fine, may I have my station back?" "Adamite humor," said Far pensively, "is not quite the same as Terran humor. That is one of the things we must study." "If you won't give me my station back -- is it too much to ask how you took it away?" "I will tell you this because it may make you a little more careful, a little less impulsive. First, your entire detection system is useless against our ships." "That I could have guessed," Hugh murmured. "Setond, we did, as you assumed, use gas to knock all of you out. We have a gas that is odorless and quick-aqting. You can't expect me to tell you more than that." No, thought Hugh. They would hardly tell him what new, special, secret weapon they had in reserve. Saying the station had been taken over by the use of gas was like giving cause of death as want of breath. What really mattered was left unexplained. "Third," said Far Slent, "what has happened here is part of a fourpronged operation. There are three other independent parts." "I see," said Hugh, not seeing at all. "I'm telling you this because if the alarm were given here," Far went on, "the three other echelons might be prejudiced. And what is essentially a peaceful operation might flare into violence and bloodshed. It could even start a Terran-Adamite war. And the responsibility would be yours." Hugh laughed. "Someone once said, 'This animal is wicked. It defends itself when attacked.' I'd better warn you. Director Far Slent -- and you, Pariss -- we're liable to be wicked like that." Far was going to say sonething, but when Pariss gestured quickly he remained silent. Hugh was interested. Could it be that the girl was the boss? M unch EN was the latest of many cities on Earth to have the dubious distinction of housing the UN headquarters. Geographically it had a better claim than most. It was within easy reach of all European and African members. The mighty American and Eastern powers had to come halfway, symbolically rather than physically, to meet here. The man and the girl who called at the vast Personnet Building, near the Hofgarten, were surprised and a little uneasy at finding themselves rapidly shuffled from one official to another, each of a little more consequence than the last and each more shrewd and penetrating. What sobered them most was the fact that they, unlike the other three pairs, had a specific job to do, the most important of the whole operation. If the organization of the Personnel Building were throughout as efficient as it appeared, they might find it difficult or even impossible to steal what they wanted. The last official to see them was a woman. They did not have to repeat their story. She already had the details before her. "I'm Miss Heilbron," she said. "You are Don Slent and daughter Gilen, natives' of Maribis. Miss Slent, would you kindly walk about the room for a few moments?" Gilen did as she was told, careful to copy the slight sliding movement of Maribisan women, cautious but not ungraceful. Her cheap Terran clothes -- black jeans and a lace shirt -- were newly bought. They did not suit her. Her hips were too wide for pants and her breasts too emphatic for the see-through lace. The poor choice was deliberate -- she and Don were supposed to look like country cousins. I should have thought," said Miss Heilbron, "you were Adamites." "We have more contact with the Adamites than any other Terran colony has," said Don. "I am aware of that. But your daughter gives me the impression of an Adamite acting like a Maribisan rather than the other way around." Gilen tried desperately to calm herself. The strenuousness of her effort defeated its objective. She was, she knew, the most highly strung of the girls, the least selfreliant. It seemed sheer madness at that moment that she rather than Verne or Tomi had been chosen for this most vital part of the operation. "I've seen Adamite women only twice," she said. "They were in uniform. They're smaller than we on average. They IF age prematurely." Recklessly, because this woman had to be diverted somehow, she went on: "If you. Miss Heilbron, were an Adamite you'd be quite old." Miss Heilbron was a woman after all and the statement did not please her. She was sixtyish, attractive and in the prime of life. She might not show a sign of age for another thirty years. "Do feel free to be perfectly frank," she said. "It makes a pleasant change from the tact of people who don't live on the frontiers. You, Mr. Slent, are going gray. Adamites might do that at an early age, perhaps?" The situation was not improving. "Yes," said Don readily. "You must remember that Terran life expectancy rose significantly only recently. The Adamites don't appear to have achieved this advance as yet." "Interesting," said Miss Heilbron. "We'll come back to it. Meantime, you seek employment here as experts on Maribis. Why?" They had a ready answer. Don said ruefully, "We are not clever people, I suppose. A small piece of good fortune at home enabled me to bring my daughter to see the Mother World. I underestimated expenses. We have dipped into the money which was to provide our return fare and must take jobs to make up the balance." "You propose, I see, to work only for a month or so. Maribis has few dealings with UN, you know." Don knew this very well. Their cover had been chosen because the Adamites' pooled knowledge of Maribis was greater than that of any other Terran settlement, and because the chances were remote of their meeting a Maribisan native in a short time on Earth. "We require a medical examination, of course," Miss Heilbron said casually. Gilen merely nodded.  "You don't mind? Either of you?" "No, why?" said Don. Gilen admired his careless unconcern and wished once again that one of her sisters had been entrusted with Miinchen. Miss Heilbron changed the subject briskly. "Yes, I think we can employ you both. Not, however, in the capacity you suggest. It is unlikely that the next few weeks will bring any need for the services of a Maribisan expert. But you obviously know a certain amount about the Adamites. Such information is rare." She made a note on a pad. "We shall engage you to tell us every least little thing you know about the Adamites." Ill T he first thing to be attended to now that Fort Plato was in Adamite hands, Wil Slent's legal officer told him, was the execution of Checker Alan Stewart. "This will show decisively," said Arol, the legal officer, "that we are in control, that we are just, that we are impartial. No one act better fulfills the requirements than the execution of the one man directly responsible for the fall of this Terran fort. If we wait until another Terran can be executed as an example, his crime will almost certainly be against us and our impartiality will be in doubt. If we execute Alan Stewart, whose crime is against them, our stand will be clear at once." "Yes," Wil replied. "But I must consult Tomi." "Not in this matter," Arol said. "She is in some way involved. I suggest you make the decision yourself. Director." Wil pondered for a moment. Arol, a young and ambitious officer, was taking too much on himself He was too positive, too insistent. The trouble was, Arol was right. When General Morrison was officially informed he said apoplectically, '"You want to execute him? I'd have thought you'd want to give him a medal." "Your observation. General," said Director Wil Slent, "reveals a certain misapprehension about Adamite justice. Whether Stewart's crime is against you or us, it remains a crime which must be punished immediately." "Without a trial?" "Do you think a trial is necessary?" "Most certainly." "Then there must be a trial. I have met your legal officer. He seems a most reasonable man." "Yes," the general agreed expressionlessly. "Most reasonable. There is one small point -- " "Yes?" "He's Alan Stewart's brother." Wil shrugged. "That might pose a difficulty if it were his duty to prosecute. But he will defend Alan Stewart. Have you any objection?" "No." "Neither have we." The trial took place in the council chamber. It followed Adamite form rather than Terran, but as Advocate John Stewart told the general after consultation with Adamite legal officers, the form seemed not unfair and would certainly be quicker than a Terran trial. The only large difference would be the absence of the accused during much of the proceedings. The jury consisted of four Terrans and four Adamites. Wil Slent presided because control of the fort was in Adamite and not Terran hands. An Adamite officer spoke first, using his own tongue. Wil, who spoke English perfectly, translated the brief statement. "We were able, by means which IF I shall not disclose unless they prove to be relevant to the matters before this court, to take over this fort with no casualties on either side. The one alarm we were unable to put out of action was the Terran checker. He had to be diverted for a few minutes. The task fell to Special Officer Tomi Slent." Wil was immediately replaced by Tomi, who wore the green uniform of an officer of the Adamite Navy. She spoke in pure Terran. "It was impossible to reach the checker physically, but it was a simple matter for me to reach the green outside the checkpoint. The plan was -- " Here a Terran member of the jury exploded, asking what kind of trial this was supposed to be. Were they to hear only an Adamitecensored version of what had happened? John Stewart replied to the objection: "What you are hearing is stipulated evidence. As defense counsel I've agreed that only this summary of the relevant facts will be given." The juror grumbled but sat down. "I hope you know what you're doing, that's all." John Stewart was neither popular nor unpopular. No one knew him very well. However, a man defending his brother against an alien race and a death penalty must surely be doing his best to get his client off. Tomi went on: "The plan was to attract and hold the checker's attention so that he could notmake any visual sweeps of the fort." Here Arol, the Adamite prosecutor, stopped her. "You used the word 'random.' Why?" "Because only random survey could show up the infiltration taking place. The success of the operation shows that all the fort's automatic alarms were successfully nullified. What could not be nullified -- what had to be diverted -- was the curiosity of the one man in the fort who could see what was going on in any part of it." Arol turned to the jury. "The significance of this is that the checker in this fort is the human supervisor of a complex of machines. The machines failed. Neither they nor their designers are on trial. But the checker, placed over them as a final safeguard, also failed, and this -- " "I did not stipulate that," said Stewart sharply. The Adamite was honestly puzzled. "It is an undisputed fact that he failed." "It is not." "On what point, precisely, are you challenging my statement?" "I am challenging your right to make any statement at all. You are telling the jury as fact things which have not been stipulated." Wil intervened hastily. However, Stewart did not press the challenge, apparently satisfied with a warning to Arol. Tomi went on. "It was known that Uie checker at the time was alone, young, male. What I had to do was keep him occupied without arousing his suspicions. I -- " "Please repeat the last sentence," said Stewart. A little surprised, Tomi said, "What I had to do was keep him occupied without arousing his suspicions." "Without arousing his suspicions?" "Yes." Stewart turned to Director Wil Slent. He said, "Surely if this girl succeeded in her aims -- and it has been stipulated that she did -- she did not arouse the checker's suspicions. Therefore, where was the jeasonjor him to give the alarm?" Everybody tried to talk at once and Wil had to order silence. Once again, instead of following through, Stewart stepped in smoothly the moment quiet was restored and said to Tomi, "Thank you. I have no more questions." It was now defense's right to call a witness. The first called was Alan Stewart. Alan Stewart was worried and it showed. He himself fully believed he was guilty and his brother had not been able to convince him otherwise. The fort had been taken over without a fight by four hundred men and women from an Adamite ship. He should have stopped them. John Stewart unwrapped a peppermint and put it into his mouth. "When you saw the girl," he asked, "what did you do?" "Went to the window and looked at her." "Why did you not give the alarm?" "She was breaking no regulation." "Yet you finally gave the alarm?" "Yes." "Too late -- and only foiir pointthree-one-six seconds before the invading force gave it themselves by breaking cover?" "I don't know the exact time lapse. About that." "Exactly. that. The figure is stipualted." Stewart turned to the jury. "The checker did give the alarm. That's stipulated. The defense's case is complete." He sat down. If there had been babble before, this time there was uproar. When Arol took the floor his voice quivered with suppressed anger. He said, "This is some kind of Terran legal trick. We knew all along that the checker gave the alarm eventually, too late. What is in question is why he didn't give it before." Stewart rose. "Oh, that's what's in question, is it?" he asked. "We can soon settle that. Stewart, why didn't you give the alarm before?" "Because it was only then that I IF knew something was wrong. The girl had an appendix scar." Questioned by his brother, he explained. The Adamites were interested. This was something they simply hadn't known about. "So," said Stewart smoothly, "you waited until you were sure, then gave the alarm. You were not suspicious about the girl but you kept her under observation until finally you knew she was not Terran. Then you gave the alarm." "That's right." Stewart sat down again, a casual wave repeating what he had said before -- as far as he was concerned, the case was over. Wil did nothing for several seconds. But he had to go on with the case. "Counsel, if it is your contention that it was not in Stewart's orders to give any alarm until he was quite certain a state of emergency existed, you must bring this out." "I see. Stewart, when the girl first appeared, you didn't give the alarm because she was breaking no regulation." "That's right." "Who told you not to give any alarm until you were perfectly sure, absolutely sure?" "General Morrison." Stewart let the pause drag out. At least he said, "You acted as you did in accordance with the orders of General Morrison?" Alan had enough sense to say merely, "Yes." "So if the fort fell when you might have prevented it -- it fell because you were obeying the orders of General Morrison?" "Yes." Stewart turned to Wil. "Obviously the wrong man has been charged. You must charge General Morrison. And I'll defend him." Wil wanted to consult Arol, but he could not, in the course of a trial, speak privately to the prosecutor without the defender's being present. He turned to the jury. "As president of this court," he said, "I feel it my duty to instruct you to return a verdict of not guilty." alone Arol said, "That man Stewart is a clever lawyer. This could be a bid for personal advancement. He may mean to put his general on trial and get him off but discredit him." "All his stipulation led us on," the Director mused. "He was quite prepared to have us put his brother on trial. We assumed' that the checker's duties included those of sentry and he encouraged us to assume this. The result was that the trial has turned out to the Terrans' advantage. And we can safely assume that if General Morrison were put on trial, the result would be similar." 'Can we? I would be on my guard with Stewart this time. He would not catch me sleeping again." "Napping," said Wil absently. "Pardon?" "They say, 'You won't catch me napping.' " Wil looked at Arol curiously. He had thought the man a pushing but competent officer. In his dealings with the Terrans, however, he seemed lacking in imagin-. ation. Wil thought he knew why Stewart had suggested putting General Morrison on trial. "Suppose this time Stewart stipulates nothing. Suppose he brings the whole operation into evidence. Won't we have to answer all his questions?" Arol began to see. "If he did that -- yes, by our own law we'd have to tell all the details. Your  mind probe. How you and Tomi induced technicians in moments of inattention to switch off certain relays when they thought they were adjusting them. Our auxiliary nonelectric drive which their sensors can't detect -- of course if they could conceive of a ship using no . electricity' and with all batteries flat, they could design special sensors to detect such a ship. Yes, we'd have to answer all such questions. You can't try a fort commander for failure without full evidence of what he was up against." Wil nodded. "So we must drop the whole thing." Reluctantly Arol agreed. Wil frowned. "We have made a bad beginning. We should have thought longer and more deeply." "You're admitting failure, sir?" "Not at all. We must learn about the Terrans. They have a saying that one learns by one's mistakes." "An exceedingly dangerous doctrine." "Yet perhaps it holds a grain of truth." Everything in Fort Plato was open to him, Wil was thinking -- the library, the logs, the records, the reports, the microfilm. Before he took any sort of action again he was going to learn a great deal from the library and the records. Nothing could be more urgent and essential. Of course the Terran books and records would be copied and the copies would be taken back in the ship. But what he could learn on the spot personally was a hundred times more valuable than what he took back on film. On the spot he could query anything that baffled him, investigate and clarify what he did not understand. Arol said, "If you let me have another opportunity, sir, I shall show you and the Terrans that I learn a great deal from my -- experience." Wil liodded again in Terran fashion, but he was not convinced. He wanted no more courtroom battles in Fort Plato, not when his own weapon, Arol, was obviously inferior to the Terrans' Stewart. IF He wanted nothing at all to happen until he had learned from the Terrans. IV C ontact was made immediately after Arol left Director Wil Slent and sent Tomi in. This was two hours after Sal and Verne were dragged through the gate on the planet Outward, four hours after Far and Pariss took control of Station # (GP), six hours after Don and Gilen arrived in Miinchen. The synchronization was very good, all things considered. In Fort Plato and Station # it was easy for the Adamite pair to concentrate. In each station Director Slent was in full and open command and could lock himself in a private room with the girl, Wil with his daughter Tomi and Far with his niece Pariss. In Miinchen the situation was more difficult, for Don and Gilen the Personnel Building and had to go on doing so while the contact occurred. The cellar on Outward presented most difficulties, not because Fred Marvin insisted on talking -- he was making supper -- but because Sal Slent had just regained consciousness and had a mild concussion. The eight did not know exactly what they were doing, any more than the savages who invented speech knew the mechanism of the vocal cords and the larynx. Tomi called soundlessly, thinking of Verne, Pariss, Gilen, visualizing them, hearing their voices, trying to guess how they felt, how they were dressed. More vaguely, conscious of effort and purpose but little else, Wil, Sal, Far and Don did what they could to help. Telepathy, among Terrans and Adamites alike, was a rogue talent. That mind could touch mind in certain unpredictable circumstances had not been doubted for centuries by anyone prepared to believe the evidence. Most of the evidence, however, consisted of random, uncoordinated flashes, too uncontrolled for study. The only people who ever seemed to get anything regularly and on significant occasions were identical twins. The birth of the Slent quadruplets Wil, Sal, Far and Don had barely affected matters at first. Like twins and triplets of many races, each knew when the others were in danger, each sensed it when the others were injured. They had joined the Adamite Navy on the same day. The Navy had not considered their peculiar link sufficiently valuable for particualr notice. But when the Caron crashed on a barren, unnamed world the unexplained, unexplainable knowledge of three brothers led to the rescue of the fourth and most of the crew. After that the Navy noticed. The Slent brothers married similar girls at about the same time. All four wives proved infertile at first. The wife of Wil Slent had borne quadruplet girls finally, after taking fertility treatments. The girls were named Tomi, Verne, Pariss and Gilen. There were no other children. The girls followed the classic pattern. They dressed alike, shared boy friends; they took mischievous, sometimes cruel delight in substituting for each other. Partly because their own link was so strong, partly because no young man ever isolated and identified any one of them for long enough and with sufficient certainty to make her fall in love, they remained huntresses. When they were seventeen Pariss fell a victim to appendicitis. Within a week all the girls had to have the same operation. And about that time Wil Slent was embarrassed to find himself occasionally seeing into his daughters' minds. He told his brothers and experiments were conducted. The Navy eventually found out. Being a Navy, it naturally considered anything new and startling in the light of a weapon. The question was, what to do with the Slents' talent. Train it first, obviously. Under naval psychologists the Slents found they could work in pairs, one of the girls trying to reach one of her sisters and usually failing until her father or uncle reinforced the effort. Then a new bond was created -- like a double wire in an electrical circuit, two Slents could achieve a special kind of linkage with two more. Each unit had to be one of the girls and one of the men, just as electrical contacts had to be positive and negative. Having discovered a weapon, the Adamite Navy had to use it. And the biggest military challenge in the galaxy was the uneasy presence of two independent branches of the human race. G radually the contact strengthened. The other girls knew that Verne was huddled in towels, felt the pain of Sal's arm and foot and head, saw Gilen writing in a bare, bright office, sensed the claustrophobic remoteness of life in a space station. Every detail reinforced the link. Then something like a conversation started. en -- bright office: Successful so far but danger... Terrans suspect we are Adamites... medical examination... to -- closed in: Avoid this... (Details of appendixscar betrayal). ious. Maribis contact with Earth incomplete... Such surgery likely, or at least still possible, on Maribis. take care. # -- closed in: Unimportant here. Terrans know we are Adamites. -- warm cellar: Warning useful... if necessary, scar can be explained. Not appendix... scar left by accident with knife... some cleverer than we. derestimated... ciency here... , T he flow was rapid and often inconsequential, like four rivulets running into a pool. In the depths fish darted -- the other three sisters did not miss the evasive, mischievous excitement of Pariss, but whatever it meant it was not a thing for the father and uncles and they pretended to miss it. Each also sensed Gilen's fear as another thing not to be brought into the light. In this first contact there was not much to say. They concentrated rather on establishing a good link, a link which would be easier to form next time because each knew a little about the new circumstances of the others. In an emergency the link might mean the difference between life and death. thoughtfully at her desk. Finally she flicked an intercom switch. "Tell Dr. Roger Miller to come and see me at once." Miller strode in five minutes later. He said icily, "I have not yet been officially informed. Miss Heilbron, of your promotion to Director-general. Frankly, if my opinion had been asked, I should have said the interests of Personnel might have been better served by a move in the other direction." He paused. Miss Heilbron waited and smiled politely. At last he asked "In one word. Miss Heilbron, to what do I owe this dishonor?" "Adamites," she said. "Adamites here? In this building?" "More precisely -- in this office, very recently. You've never met an Adamite, Dr. Miller, have you? You're supposed to be an expert on Eden, yet you've never met an Xdamite?" He sat down. "My time is valuable," he said. "What is this cockand-bull story?" She told him about her visitors and how she had handled them. When she mentioned she had said to them: "I should have thought you were Adamites -- " he sat bolt upright. IF "You accused them to their faces?" "Until then," she said mildly, "I wasn't quite sure I was right." "But how can you possibly be sure now that you are right?" She sighed. "I could never convince you, Dr. Miller, and I don't propose to try. I'm giving you an opportunity to convince yourself by studying these so-called Maribisans. Not personally. I don't want you to meet them." "You don't want me to meet them? What madness -- " "Exactly, Dr. Miller -- what madness it would be to allow you to meet them. You have never learned self-control and I'm afraid it's too late now." Miller realized that for him to storm out of the room in a temper would confirm her words. He managed to maintain his icy front, even to smirk sardonically. "What do you suggest? I am completely in your hands. Miss Heilbron." "I suggest you give me your promise not to contact these two personally -- and having done that, take over the entire matter." There was a long pause. Miller was of the same generation as Miss Heilbron, a tall handsome man in his prime. He had been married seven times and had given up matrimony for good; that it could not work was the fault not of seven women but of the whole female sex. He was a lonely man because there were fe minutes of his day during which he was not angry, not lashing out at anything and anybody within reach. Yet he was high in the hierarchy because any job he was given and genuinely accepted was done "Very well," he said mildly. "You're wrong, of course. Miss Heilbron. These people may not be Maribisans, but neither will they turn out to be Adamites." She merely smiled and said, "Prove it. Dr. Miller." modation a great problem. At first they refused Personnel's offer of assistance. But all hotel rooms were taken or too ruinously expensive -- they were supposed to be short of money. Miinchen, like many other administration centers, was bursting at the seams. After walking for hours Gilen said to her uncle, "If only we could feren -- " "Well, we can't," he said calmly. "I know, but it would be so easy -- " "Gilen, the one thing we firmly agreed on before we started was that we would never, after we were established, take chances by meddling with Terran minds." "I know, but -- " "If anything happens anywhere to give the Terrans a clue, they'll work out the rest. In the two space stations, two or three or twenty IF technicians were touched gently and caused to turn a switch one way when they thought they were turning it the other. The action was necessary and relatively safe. When a man does a routine job he's not thinking -- he doesn't have to think. His mind is elsewhere. But we have no need of extreme measures now." "I know -- " "You dont know, Gilen, or you wouldn't be proposing anything so foolish at this stage." Gilen was hot, footsore and weary. She was conscious of being the weak sister. Opposition strengthened Verne, made Pariss laugh, excited Tomi, but bore her down and trampled on her. Having no place to sleep that night in a strange city was a small matter -- if they failed to find accommodation Personnel would help them, she knew. But it got her down. She sighed. "Then let's go back to Personnel." They returned and were given a list of addresses. Five times they drew a blank, but at the sixth house they found two comfortable rooms and a bathroom. Gilen cheered up at once. She was the most mercurial of the girls. Now perfectly contented, she locked, her door against the Terrans, her uncle, everybody, kicked off her shoes and lay back on the bed luxuriously. Personnel was pleased, too. The visitors had been placed exactly where Personnel wanted them. self out. "You stay with your old man," Fred told Verne. "I'll get a stretcher party." He was back in ten minutes with two other men, both burly, but slim striplings beside himself. One of them looked at Verne, who was draped in towels, with greater interest than at the patient he had come to collect. "Verne Slent -- Red Conrad," said Fred. "Here." He threw her a pair of Jeans, a shirt and sneakers. Then the three men turned to Sal, who was feverish and only partly conscious. They wrapped him in blankets. While they took him upstairs Verne put on the alien clothes. Soon Fred returned. He was alone. He waved casually at her as she made for the stairs. "Be seeing you," he said, but he was wrong. A mole was waiting at the top of the stairs. These squat trucks were specially developed for Outward. They were heavy, ran on tracks and had two giant claws to dig into and clutch the earth. Before she entered the mole she caught a glimpse of the settlement: row upon row of squat concrete buildings, the nearest some three hundred meters from the wire fence. Then Red, who was already seated inside with Sal, gestured impatiently and she climbed in. Sal leaned in a corner with his eyes closed. He didn't look bad, just tired. Unlike Fred, Red started asking questions at once. "Born here?" "No. Landed only a month ago. "That would be on the Hyperi"Yes." "Weren't you peopleon the Hyperion told anything? Didn't you have the faintest idea what Outward was like?"  Verne sighed. "I suppose we didn't believe it. We knew there was a storm when we landed, but no planetside storm is supposed to bother a ship like that. It didn't, really, except that we landed five miles from the terminal and had to walk." "Had to walk? Oh, Christ!" She decided to test something she knew about only theoretically. "Please don't swear," she said. "I don't like it." "Sure, Verne. Anything you say." "And I haven't invited you to call me Verne. Familiarity may be common here, but I'm not used to it." "Familiarity? Hell, I haven't tried to kiss you yet, have I?" Sal opened his eyes and seemed to be about to say something. Fearing his condition might make him say the wrong thing or even speak in a language that Red had never heard, Verne kept Red's attention off him by saying sharply, "Didn't you promise not to swear?" "Did I? Oh, sure. Verne, you're a honey." "I know. I've been told." "I bet you have. Will you shack with me?" Not knowing exactly what the question implied, she ignored it. Fortunately at that moment the mole stopped and the door slid open. Red and the other man took Sal into what passed for a hospital -- five beds in a bare room with yet another burly man in charge. "Have you any money?" he asked Verne. "No. We lost it with our mole when -- " "Never mind. We'll settle that later. He's Sal Slent, you say? Just these injuries? No infectious disease? Okay." That was all. When she left the building with Red she found that the other man had driven the mole away. T he air was now pleasantly warm and quite still. It seemed incredible that a killer gale had been raging a half-hour earlier. This unnatural calm was not to be trusted. A whiplash of wind could strike in the middle of it, without warning. "I asked if you," said Red, "want to shack with me?" There was no help for it. She had IF to ask cautiously, "What exactly does that mean?" "Got a man?" "No, not -- " "You could do worse than shack with me, babe. Considering you've no money and no place to go, you could hardly do better. I'm not hard to get on with. I won't hit you unless you ask for it. I'm a construction foreman -- good pay, no dependents. Two rooms and a bathroom to myself. Haven't had a woman since I threw Rose out five weeks ago." "Why did you throw her out?" "Too many other men. I'll be reasonable about that. There's about five hundred men here and less than two hundred women. I don't expect you to act like a wife. But not too many other men, huh? Three or four, maybe That's fair, isn't it?" "I've never been with a man and I have no immediate desire for a change in the situation." "Like that, is it?" He nodded to himself. "Guess you lost somebody in the Hyperion business." She hesitated only' a moment, then nodded. What she and Sal knew about the Outward settlement had been learned from radio messages, plus letters, log books, reports and other documents found in the shell of a ship which had blown up. From radio messages which had flahed between the forty or so outposts on the planet she knew as much about the Hyperion incident as anyone who had not been directly involved. The hurricane had killed nine hundred seventy-four people. On the planet Outward, you just didn't set out in a straggling file to walk five miles over bare moorland. Verne knew from intercepted radio messages that only ninety bodies had ever been found. The rest had been dashed to pieces, swept scores of miles away, blown into marshes, killed by the gnomes or sucked bloodless by the hemmers. "Well, look," hesaid and struggled for a moment. "If it's like that -- I'll marry you if you like." It was clear he thought he was offering her a great deal. "Where I come from," she said, ready to say Earth if he asked, "we have a thing called engagement. We can be engaged if you like." Red laughed derisively. That's not for Outward. Especially not for Camp Eleven. Sure, a girl can say she isn't going to have anything to do with men. Or she can say it's marriage or nothing. But being engaged -- that means you say you'll marry me some time but not now, huh?" She nodded. "And meantime you move in with me?" She nodded again. "That means you think I'm a sucker." "You think so? It means I trust you." He grunted. "That's a poke in the guts." "Why?" Verne shrugged. "All right. I need a job and somewhere to sleep. Where do I go and whom do I see?" One word diverted him. "Whom do you see? Christ, that fancy talk -- " "Don't swear." Red rolled his eyes to heaven. At last he said, "Like I told you, you're a honey. Maybe you're worth it, babe, if you stand up to everything the way you stand up to me. But one thing -- iLyoy're going to be engaged to me there aren't going to be any other men at all." "Naturally," Verne said, surprised. "Obviously," Being engaged to Red seemed a good idea, especially when she remembered a cynical Terran quote on the subject she had picked up somewhere: Engagement -- a period during which a girl looks around to see if she can do better for herself ,... H ugh and Pariss were in one of the observatories, lying back in deep, comfortable chairs and watching the stars. "You're a very lovely girl," said Hugh. Pariss had been told this before but not by a Terran. "Thank you." "Although Terrans generally would think you are attractive perhaps I appreciate you more than most. You're obviously of mixed race and so am I. I'm half Caucasian, a quarter Polynesian and another quarter Asian. Our children would be the ultimate in racial representation." She started slightly at the mention of children. "Tell me about yourself," he said. "I'm interested." She smiled, stood up and began to walk about. "Hugh, let's make a deal. I give you something and you give me something. Inforrhation -- true and useful information. And we go on like that until one of us cheats." "Splendid idea. I hope you won't think it's cheating if I suggest that since it's your idea, you go first." "We Adamites fear the Terrans," said Pariss quietly. "We should like to ignore you. We'd rather you didn't exist. But since we learned fifty years ago that you do exist, we've changed our whole way of life -- now I think it's time you said something." "I think," said Hugh slowly, "we'd also prefer that you didn't exist. When one human culture, into another nearly as large, it was a shock, of course -- and not a particularly pleasant one. You have nothing we want, except your Earth-type worlds. To get them for ourselves we'd have to fight IF you and exterminate you. And we don't want that." "Why?" "You're breaking your own rules," he said mildly. "Now you tell me something." "All right. We're more united than you. It wasn't always so, but about five centuries ago we fought ourselves to a standstill. So few of us were left that we were brought face to face with the prospect of extinction. That's why there are fewer of us than of you. But at least we learned our lesson. There won't be any more Adamite civil wars, anyway not for another five centuries." "That's more than we can say. In fact, maybe you've put your finger on the crux of the matter -- and if that's why Eden has discouraged contact and trade between the two peoples for half a century, maybe she's right. It's typical of Terrans that there'll always be some idiot who'll pull the trigger But now we come to why you're here Pariss." "We told you. To learn." "Sure, but there's more than that. There must be. Maybe you mean to fight now because you've got something we haven't got and you think you can win. I suppose it's no use asking exactly how you took over this station?" "No, but I'll tell you this, Hugh -- it isn't anything really big, really important. It's nothing to make you edgy. It's nothing that would enable us to beat Earth." Hugh, who had remained in his chair, stood up and took her hands in his. She didn't resist. He was very gentle. "Thanks, Pariss," he said. "You told me something important and I believe you. Just to be fair. I'll tell you something important too. I can take over this station again any time I like and by means so simple it's really ludicrous -- but I won't, meantime. You see, I want to find out just how you did it -- and more important, just why you did it." "We want information, that's all." She wasn't meeting his eyes. VYou're cheating, Pariss." She raised her eyes to his and looked at him steadily. "Only a little. What we want in addition to information can't be all that important. And some of it at least -- some of it -- I think I could have right now for the asking." "Go ahead. Ask." She drew her hands away from him. "Not now, Hugh. Not just yet." T he second conference, which should have been easier, more complete, more informative than the first, was none of these things. #: Hugh Suyang is nice... Pariss, you're supposed to be working, not playing. but there's something more important than that. He's a latent telepath. We suspected it when we were working on the plan to take over the station and we therefore bypassed him. His latent ability, which he doesn't yet suspect, has enabled him to guess certain things about me, about us. you know the circumstances. Is it necessary to kill him? . might be the worst thing we could possibly do. Something held back. must be done. pened in Fort Plato to make you so harsh, Tomi? here have resulted in a moral victory for the Terrans. We have to be careful... Of course we're being careful. I don't understand... Understanding among us is bound to become more difficult as our differing experience drives us wider apart. Incidentally, I've just been asked to marry a Terran. est. Agreement that it interesting if Verne married reported on the experience. that Pariss is prepared to become emotionally involved with this Hugh Suyang. My situation is different. I have no love for Red Conrad. If it seems necessary to marry him I'll do so entirely for the sake of the project. tirely right, Verne. Pariss, is what Verne said true? Hugh Suyang as a Terran, if that's what you mean.' I think of him only as a man. well. But remember, you hold a secret, a secret that must be important. And you have said Suyang is a latent telepath. You must be very careful. was a chuckle. IF V R ED'S house was surprisingly comfortable. It held amenities Verne had not expected. Externally it was merely a squat concrete box with a single door and two small fixed windows of thick plastic. Inside it was a proper house, with a fully adequate bathroom, a kitchen with all the necessary fittings, a living room and a small bedroom. "That's yours," Red said of the bedroom. He frowned. "Verne, I still think I'm a sucker." "Why?" "Even thinking of letting you get away with this. Now I have to go and register you. What can you do?" She knew about this. On Outward where you came from and why were unimportant -- but what you could do was vital. "Quite a lot of things. I'm a fair electrician, a good shot with any gun. I can nurse, though I'd rather not. I can learn to work any machine in about half an hour and I can count better in my head than most people can with a calculator. I'm used to working with chemicals. I can draw anything you want drawn. I've.done a lot of work with glass -- " "Honey," said Red with a marked change of tone, "I want to know you can do what you say. Here." He gave her a drawing pad and a stylus. "Make a picture of me." "What?" "You say you can draw anything I want drawn. Draw me." She found the stylus could make thin lines, thick lines, dark and light lines. She sketched quickly, competently. Red had an interesting face, she discovered as she worked. The eyes were deep-set and hard, but they could become soft. Possibly he was a sentimentalist. He had thick sensual lips. Probably he would be furious if she pointed out that they were almost feminine. His face had lines it should not have had at his age -- he could not yet be thirty. She did a quick portrait, careful to omit the finishing touches that might betray an alien art. Nevertheless, when she offered it to him, he was startled, even awed'. "Christ!" he breathed. "You sure as hell can draw, honey. Is that me?" "It's meant to be." "I'm no expert. But I'd say this was -- well, as I say. I'm no expert. What I want to know is, if you can draw like this, why did you come to Outward?" "I don't understand." "Honey, most of us are nothing much or we wouldn't be here. I don't mean people who were born here -- I mean dumb guys like me who came from other places. Here I'm a big shot, but where I come from I'd never have amounted to much. You, now -- you have talent. You didn't need to come here." "Perhaps I just wanted to." He was not satisfied, yet he was prepared to drop the subject for the moment. "Anyway, I have to report you. I won't report your old man. He can do it himself." She nodded. "Make us some supper. I'll be back in half an hour. If I put you down as a draftsman -- think you can handle the job?" "I expect so." "I guess that's why you came to Camp Eleven, huh? We sure as hell need draftsmen." He didn't wait for an answer, which was just as well, since Verne was not quite sure what to answer. Left alone in the house, she completed a quick survey without learning very much. She went into the kitchen. And there, standing menacingly in the middle of the floor, was a gnome. It made its intentions clear at once. In a grating, rasping voice, it said, "Earn gontu kilyu." It took her a few seconds to realize that it was speaking not its own language, but Terran:  am going to kill you... H OW it had gotten there -- it had certainly not been there when Red showed her the kitchen -- was an academic question on which she wasted no time. There was no doubt it was a gnome. Outward had only two indigenous mobile life forms. The hemmers were long and low and walked on six short legs. This creature was shaped like two stones with a larger stone set on top of them and a smaller one on top of that, faintly reminiscent of human legs, trunk and head. It was uniformly reddish-brown, exactly the color of Outward soil. It carried nothing and wore no clothes. The arms were the most nonhuman feature, although they emerged at approximately the right places. They were flexible, boneless, handless and could be as short as half a meter or as long as four meters when they lashed out like tentacles. She had, unfortunately, pulled the door shut as she entered. To open it she would have to turn and operate the handle -- the work of a moment, but a moment she would not be allowed. She knew theoretically of the incredible toughness of the gnomes' hide -- it enabled them to survive the rigors of Outward's climate, alone, without houses, burrowing into the ground with those incredible arms when storms lashed the planet's surface. She could achieve nothing against the intruder with her bare hands or her softshod feet. One of the tentacles lashed out. It brushed her jeans quite lightly, midway between waist and groin, a little to the left of center. The tentacle, which had IF narrowed to the thickness of a human wrist as it reached her, on its return swelled to the thickness of the creature's head. "Why do you want to kill me?" she asked, just to say something. Any delay was to her advantage. There was a heavy pot on the cooker. But the gnome was between her and it. "Earn gontu kilyu," the creature rasped and she suspected it knew only a few phrases, perhaps one only. She tried to use the one weapon she had -- her mind. The effort failed completely. Sal was evidently asleep, perhaps doped, and without him she could not reach the others. Her own effort, without their assistance, bounced back at her. The gnome had a mind of sorts, but it was tough as the body. All she could touch was hate and cruelty -- and there was no better shield against any mind probe than hate. She tried to touch Red and found certain contact. She sensed he was thinking, Someones walking on my grave, a phrase that meant nothing to her. The gnome's other arm lashed out. It caught her around the waist like a whip, spinning her a half turn. The gnome wanted to inspect her back. It proved uninteresting, and so the tentacle spun her again just as she was considering a snatch at the door handle. The tentacle constricted about her diaphragm until she gasped. The gnome could quite easily crush her to death. It had no immediate intention of doing so, however, still being moved by curiosity. It knew she was completely in its power. It could kill her any time it wished. A gain a tentacle shot out. The creature wanted to check something. Verne's hip bones were hard and she was hard across the back. The waist was soft and the tentacle probed softness down her front. The gnome prodded her abdomen and hips, establishing the areas of softness. Then the gnome tested her solar plexus and noted Verne's discomfort when this area was rammed hard. It also felt her ribs and established that slaps there did not trouble her. Verne called Red mentally again. Nothing happened. So she tried the gnome, with exactly the same result she had noted before. Hate and cruelty were there. Perhaps the cruelty she sensed explained what was happening. The gnome not only wished to find out about humans, his enemies, and not only carefully stored up in his brain a knowledge of their obvious weak spots; he was also trying to terrify her. His greatest victory would be frightening her to death. She was to realize that the death blow could come at any time now -- and certainly would come -- but never to know when. "I don't fear you," she said. Again the words were just something to say. "Earn gontu kilyu," said the gnome. A tentacle wavered out again, slowly this time. Verne moved a little to avoid it, failing, but getting herself away from the door. If help were to come, it would come through there. She didn't want to be in the way of a shot at the gnome. The tentacle barely touched her, so gently that she guessed it was listening. The idea suggested what the creature's purpose was. The gnome wanted to locate her heart. It had tried the abdomen first. Perhaps the gnome's own heart was there. In the unlikely event of her escaping this crisis and subsequently facing a gnome when she was wearing steel boots, she intended to lunge at its underbelly. Having found the heart, the gnome punched it viciously with the other tentacle. Verne cried out in pain, staggered and had to press back against the wall to recover herself. But she was only momentarily hurt. The blow was no harder than that of a man's fist and, the gnome being short, it came from below. She did not think the blow was meant to be fatal. The gnome was doing what all cruel creatures did -- demonstrating, after all this suspense, that it meant to hurt her, that her death was not to be quick and easy. Yet for the first time she began to hope. The gnome was making a mistake. It had not probed her throat, because its own head was set into its trunk with no neck. A quick thrust and constriction with either tentacle would have strangled a human more quickly than any other means -- but the creature had picked on the heart area, which in a human was reasonably well protected against mere blows. If Red came back, if the gnome found itself with only a second or two in which to kill her, it would strike at her heart. And though this would not be fun, almost certainly she would survive. Delay became more important than ever. She was delighted to discover that the gnome was going on with the game. A tentacle lightly touched her face and then her shirt. Apparently for the first time the gnome realized that her clothing was not part of her. The tentacle became a claw and ripped her shirt. The gnome deliberated for several seconds, its little red eyes surveying her coldly. Then the tentacle tore the tatters from her body. Gnomes were not too bright. His new discovery occupied this one for a long time. It retracted the tentacle and stood motionless for fully two minutes while it decided that the tall, thin creature which faced it was pink all over. Or IF something equally inconclusive. Next it tried to tear her pants, but they fitted snugly. Without more violence than it seemed at the moment prepared to employ, the gnome could get nowhere. With a change of approach, it punched savagely at the solar plexus. This time, although Verne was hurt considerably, she tried not to show it. Suddenly the gnome moved its feet. At the same time she heard a door opening in the house. Red was back. The gnome said, "Ecum bak foryu" -- It turned and clawed open a cupboard door. There was a hole in the floor, a hole less than half the gnome's diameter. But it flowed into the hole head first and Verne realized that the rest of its body was as pliable and boneless as its versatile tentacles. It made no attempt to strike at Verne, although it would have had plenty of time to stab at her heart and still get into the hole before Red arrived. Nevertheless, she felt its hate, its cruelty, its fearlessness and its desire to kill her. And its words echoed in her brain: Vll come back for you. R ed burst in, sniffling, "Gnomes!" he shouted. "Not gnomes. Just one gnome." "Where?" "It went that way." She showed him the hole. He swore. His rage was directed mainly against the crew that had built the house. "Damn them to hell! I'll get them. Jerry-building on Earth is only dishonest. Here it's murder. The foundations are supposed to be six-inch reinforced concrete. The gnomes and hemmers can't get through that." He bent to examine the floor in the cupboard. "This is only a shell. Damn -- I hope a gnome gets the foreman." Still sniffing, he turned to her, his eyes widening. Until now, the gnome's recent presence had distracted him from noticing that she was naked above the waist. Awkwardly he turned away. "What in hell happened? It didn't get a chance to get at you, huh? Did it pop its head through the hole just as I got back?" "It's been here since you left. So was I." Red stiffened. "But that's impossible. I mean -- " He looked at her again, noticing now the red marks on her body. His eyes dropped to the torn shirt where the gnome had flung it. "It was here with you," he said incredulously, "all that time? And you're still alive -- " She moved to the sink and washed herself where the gnome's tentacles had touched her, having learned already that plain cold water was effective against the irritants of Outward. As she did so, she told Red in detail what had happened. He didn't say a word. He kept looking at her incredulously, occasionally shaking his head. With some asperity Verne asked, "You don't believe me? You think I'm a liar?" "Oh, I believe you all right. I can still smell the gnome and I saw his mark on you." Suddenly his tone grew angry. "Will you for Pete's sake cover yourself? What are you trying to do to me?" "I have nothing else to wear." He rushed from the room and returned with a shirt. He threw it at her. She put it on. Red was ashamed of his outburst, she sensed. He was again regarding her with the awe, the wonder that she had seen before. "Well, tell me," she said. "I was sure, too, that the gnome would never let me live. But it did. Doesn't that ever happen?" "I've heard of it," said Red slowly. "Certainly it happens. But I've never heard of it happening with a girl. The gnomes are cruel. Cruelty is built into them. They're cruel as the planet is cruel. Human sadists get a kick out of hurting people, but we think the gnomes get even more out of it. They like to hurt, but it's fear that counts. Particularly fear of death." She nodded. "That's what I thought." "When they catch a victim and they have time, as this one had with you, they screw up his fear as far as it will go. If their prey is defenseless, knows it's going to die, the gnome senses and feeds the fear. And when the gnome's satisfied, when it really feels good, the victim dies. Sometimes, though, when a human isn't afraid, when he or she has too much selfrespect to grovel and shriek, there's nothing in it for the gnome. It has failed to set the victim up for death, see? The time hasn't come. There's no more satisfaction in it which can't show any sign of caring about it." He took a deep breath. "Sometimes -- when it happens like that -- the man lives. You must be the bravest girl I ever met." She laughed. "Brave? I didn't want to die. I kept on looking for ways not to die. That's not courage," "Maybe not. But I guess you fooled the gnome." L ife at Fort Plato went on in an atmosphere of incredible calm. The Adamites interfered scarcely at all in the normal running of the station. They took comprehensive precautions to ensure that no message from the fort could reveal the true situation the Terrans away from the weaIF pons, the machines, the laboratories (except under strict supervision), the computers. Beyond that, having once interfered with the running of the routine affairs of the station and finding cause to regret it, they acted almost as guests. Seven of them spoke English perfectly. The rest of the four hundred picked up the language as any occupying soldiers would. Wil Slent spent almost all his time with books, records and microfilm. He was a book man, strict, correct. He worked hard. The object of his presence in Fort Plato was to learn all he could about the Terrans and he singlemindedly devoted sixteen hours a day to his task. Tomi was bored and made no attempt to hide it. There was a stubborn, tacit refusal among almost all theTerrans, young and old, even to say hello to her. They knew the part she had played in the fall of Fort Plato and she became a symbol to them. She was the Adamites; she was their defeat; she was the occupation. For this reason she saw a lot of John Stewart. She didn't like him and he didn't act as if he liked her. Yet he talked to her, as freely as he would ever talk. She didn't know why this was and she didn't care. She saw no danger in talking candidly to Stewart. She was wrong. F or the third time Dr. Roger Miller read through all the reports he had been able to assemble on the so-called Maribisans, Don and Gilen Slent. Everyone in the Personnel Building who had encountered the visitors, however briefly, had been asked to report. The suspicion that they were Adamites was never mentioned. Certain small, isolated identity factors emerged. Both of them spoke Enghlish too correctly. Their speech was not always pedantic, their accent not always flawless -- certain colloquialisms were used by them. But it was as if someone, not necessarily they themselves, had made a careful study of many examples of the language and what they had been taught was a distillation of these examples. They clung to each other in a strange way not inconsistent with their being father and daughter -- but the relationship seemed more exclusive of others than would be expected of a comparatively young parent from a provincial planet and a lovely girl. The medical examination showed that the girl had had her appendix removed surgically, but that was not conclusive evidence of alienness -- it was quite possible that this operation was still performed on Maribis. Indeed, the medical evidence was rather against the theory that they were Adamites, for there were confused indications of recent specifically Terran ancestry. This was particularly puzzling. Checking failed to confirm or deny that the Slents had arrived on the ship Nord from Hylon as they claimed. Their names were on the passenger list, but no one remembered them. That, too, was inconclusive; the vessel was back in space, beyond contact. The few crewmen who had elected not to stay with the ship and hence were available for questioning simply had happened to have nothing to do with these two passengers -- who had probably kept to themselves if their present behavior were anything to go by. One of those who remained, the purser, acted strangely when questioned. No, he didn't remember them -- what was the trouble? Why were two passengers so important? He had been in the employ of Spacelines for twenty-nine years and had never been grilled before. Did they think he'd taken a bribe? He insisted on a lie-detector test, (it revealed nothing except that he believed he was telling the truth.) Yes, he had been scheduled to make the next trip on the Nord, Only an undiagnosed illness the night before departure had made him miss the trip. The illness had turned out to be an allergy. Miller stabbed his intercom as if trying to kill it. "Tell Miss Heilbron I want to see her," he snapped. "No. Ask Miss Heilbron if I may see her. Ask if it would be convenient if I called on her on a matter of considerable importance." The reply came within forty-five seconds. Miss Heilbron would be honored to receive him. He suspected sarcasm, but he could not complain of the phraseology. He wasted no time. "Miss Heilbron if our guests are not Adamites they're equally worthy of attention and investigation. I have two suggestions. But first, have you seen the medical report?" "Yes." "The medical report is the one thing I find hard to explain." "Except of course," she suggested gently, "on the basis that the doctors concerned were fools and got it all wrong." "Naturally I am not ignoring that possibility." "Naturally not." "You must rescind your proviso. I may have to meet them myself. At least I must be free to do so if I consider it necessary." "Of course." He stared at her. "Of course?" "I merely wished to make a point. Dr. Miller. We can consider it made, can't we?" "Wasn't it rather a childish way to make it?" "Probably. I am a very childish person. Dr. Miller." "I am trying not to lose my temper. Please do not provoke me." IF "You must be mistaken. I'm not generally regarded as highly provocative." "Understandably," he retorted cruelly and was satisfied by her faint flush. "You agree telepathy must be investigated?" "I thought hypnosis." "To hypnotize a person you must be in his presence, or at least in communication with him. In the circumstances, it seems the only means of communication must have been telepathy." "You mean they worked from outside, from another ship, on the people in the TVorrf?" meto congratulate you on your unerring detection of the obvious." She said nothing, merely looking at him wryly, her expression more telling than words. "I'm sorry," he said. "All right, I am well aware I'm hard to get on with. I must be the most difficult man in the world to get on with." "Dr. Miller, I'm sure you exaggerate. Besides," she added kindly, "there are many other worlds." He swallowed that. "I have a telepathic rating of zero. I intend to enlist a person who calls himself The Great Nicolas." Miss Heilbron was genuinely surprised. "I grasp your idea, but -- isn't he just a mountebank?" "Probably," said Miller glumly. "But I hope he's not. I most sincerely hope he's not." appearing in London, much to the annoyance of Dr. Miller. Nicolas had been in Stuttgart the week before. Miller had to fly to London. Using the enormous power of Personnel, he had discovered that The Great Nicolas was Nick Grumeyer, one-time conman. Miller was in the audience in a London night club when the lights dimmed and brass blared to announce The Great Act. Spotlights picked out three correctly shaped blondes, one in green, one in red, one in blue. Their elaborate costumes contained an. enormous quantity of silk, lace, frills and fur, considering how little of their wearers they concealed. The girls turned toward each other, stretching out their spangled arms to form a triangle. Each sank to one knee. The Great Nicolas slowly appeared in the triangle, wearing white evening dress. The act included illusion as well as telepathy. He, snapped his fingers and the girl in red had a blue dress, the one in green a red dress and the one in blue a green dress. He snapped his fingers and each girl became two, then three, then four, swirling out of one another. There was a lot more of this, which bored Miller because he had not flown to London to see anything of the sort. He didn't know how it was done and he didn't care.That it was not magic he was certain. The girls unfastened their enormous skirts and were suddenly dressed in silver leotards. They moved into the audience and lights picked them out as they leaned provocatively over fat men. "Snakeskin wallet, comb, driving license in name of Andrew Flambert," said Nicolas and a girl produced these items from a man's pocket. "Five keys, a pocket knife, nail scissors -- appointment book, handkerchief pencil -- nail varnish, nail file, lipstick -- " It was effective because it was quick, because it was always right and because so many pockets and handbags were probed. Obviously there couldn't be that many stooges in the audience. You re Nick Grumeyer and Vm here to get you. Miller thought with concentrated venom. What you stole from me isnt half what you make in a night here, but I know ril never get that from you, Vll get something else, Vll make you pay in blood, Nick Grumeyer, One of the silver girls made a strange genture with a stiff wrist and came toward him. No lights followed her. Nobody but Miller looked at her. There were eleven other girls and Nicolas, who was now telling the audience about their scars. The silver girl whispered in Miller's ear, "Please come with me, sir." "All right," he said. "Let's go." The girl opened a side door, led him along a bare passage and into a dressing room. She faced him. "Who are you?" she asked. She was older than he had thought, though not less attractive. Possibly she was sixty, his own age. He guessed that she was the girls' leader, perhaps even Nicolas's boss. "You threatened Nick," she said. The threat had achieved its object. "It was a test," he said. "I'm Dr. Roger Miller of UN. I want to consult The Great Nicolas." "Why did you threaten him?" "To see if he could sense the threat." "Well, he did," she said grimly. "Never fool around with telepathy. It can be a terrible thing." "Terrible? Do you mean dangerous?" "That, too. But terrible in other ways. It can turn you inside out." "You're a telepath, then? And you don't like it?" "I hate it." He was interested. "Yet it's your living." "Nick could manage without me. But he'd use somebody else." "You're -- his wife?" "Yes. Doris Grumeyer. Now shut up." "I didn't know he had a wife." "It is believed we live together. Professionally that's a convenience IF at times. Please be quiet. You want to see Nick. He's prepared to see you." Miller sat down, perfectly prepared to wait. It seemed quite likely now that he had guessed right in deciding to consult The Great Nicolas. Fort Plato. General Morrison knew nothing about it. John Stewart knew nothing about it. Hardly anyone in high authority among the Terrans knew about it -- and none of the Adamites. Former Checker Alan Stewart knew about it and wished he didn't. His position in Fort Plato after the trial was miserable. Had he been executed he would have been a martyr and might even in time have been turned into a hero. When he was released, however, reaction set in and most of the Terrans in the fort now considered him to be the criminal the Adamites had failed to prove he was. After all, he could have stopped the Adamites and had not done so. He happened to learn about the meeting and something of its purpose, but was excluded from it. Warned grimly to keep quiet, he almost managed to forget he knew about the matter. It was not difficult for men and women who knew every inch of the station to find a place where they could talk in secret. Although scanners were everywhere and Adamites were in the checkpoint now, people who knew exactly where the scanners were could defeat them. It was a meeting of revolutionaries. Inevitably their conclusions were violent and bloody. Tomi, reading in her room sensed enough disturbance to tell her father that something was in the wind. He told her to go to the checkpoint and see if she could discover anything there. At the checkpoint, with the help of two Adamite technicians who had been studying the available facilities, she cast her net wide. She looked in and eavesdropped on Morrison, Stewart and many others who were important in Fort Plato. She found nothing to explain her vague sense of danger. She went in search of John Stewart and found him in the main library. He seemed less interested in her concern than in what had caused it. "You said it's a feeling?" he asked. "A hunch?" "I never ignore a hunch. Do you?" "Tomi, you give the impression this is more than a hunch. Tell me. She had no intention of telling him that Fort Plato had fallen mainly because Wil Slent and herself had touched a few receptive and made people who were working automatically, thinking of something else, unconsciously throw a switch here, put a circuit out of operation there, fail to notice that a red light had come on, turn off an alarm. "I know something's happenmg. "You know?" She had to play it down. "I had this feeling -- oh, forget it. What are you reading?" He showed her the book. It was The Eden Myth by Dr. Roger Miller. "Myth?" she asked. "Eden doesn't exist?" Stewart smiled. "That's not what the title means. Miller examines the purely Terran sources of the Eden legend and the name itself. The word eden is Hebrew and means 'delight' -- the Greek version of the Old Testament uses a word paradeisos, from the Persian. Edin was the Sumerian name for the plain of Babylon. Miller shows that the Adamites never called themselves Adamites -- or their world Eden -- until they had learned that Terrans had legends that the human race began in a place called the Garden of Eden and that the first man was Adam." "Well, that's what he would say, isn't it?" "How do you feel about Earth?" "I just don't feel anything about Earth. Go back to your book. Who's Miller anyway?" "He works at UN headquarters in Munich." "Munich?" She was suddenly thoughtful. "Is that another name for Miinchen?" "Same place." She turned away. Her feeling of unease had passed. And she still didn't like Stewart. She didn't dislike him either. It was a pity. All the indications were that she would go on being lonely and slightly bored. She was looking forward to the warm, complete contact with her sisters that was to take place in a few hours. Sal Slent was deeply unconscious on Outward. It had proved necessary, when his foot did not improve after some days, to perform a small surgical operation on it. This was all Tomi could learn. In Miinchen Gilen and Don were together, but Gilen was uneasy rather as Tomi had been; uncommunicative. She broke the contact quickly. Tomi had no chance to ask her what if anything she knew of a Dr. Roger Miller. In Station # Pariss declared briefly and firmly that with a latent telepathic talent around, all such communication had better be suspended, temporarily at least. Tomi was left with the impression that if her father were not so eager to return to his bookwork, which seemed to occupy him now to the exclusion of all else, she would have been able to make better contact at least with Gilen. IF VI T he guerillas struck in the night. The Adamites had become careless. Seven days had passed during which the Terrans gave every indication of having accepted the situation reasonably, if not enthusiastically. If the Terrans had been difficult from the start Adamite control would have been adjusted accordingly. But almost every man, woman and child in the station had behaved carefully right along -- like students with a new teacher -- and the Adamites had failed to recognize a sizing-up period for what it was. The guerillas, as they called themselves, let the sentries alone with few exceptions. The Adamites in checkpoint, two men and a woman, were offered poisoned coffee. The three Adamites would not have accepted refreshment from a Terran seven days earlier. No longer suspicious, they drank the coffee and died. Some sleeping Adamites were slain. The victims were not necessarily important but they could be killed without raising an alarm. Two soldiers who were with Terran girls, contrary to orders, were easy and obvious victims. Tomi and Wil Slent were spared because they were well guarded. Arol, on the other hand, was one of the first victims. Three Terrans, all girls, knew they were giving their lives -- the girl who poisoned the Adamite checkers and the two who slew their lovers. They would be traced later. The others struck secretly, often at men and women they knew not at all. The aim was simply to kill as many Adamites as possible. Many killed more than once. When a force of four hundred attempted to control a community of five thousand and when, moreover, there was at least a pretense of normalcy, of peaceful occupation if not friendship, a carefully planned coup could be bloodily successful. The guerillas killed two hundred and one Adamites with no loss to themselves. The Adamites they could not kill were those who resumed full control of Fort Plato the next morning. back to reality from his fascinating private research, clamped down hard. All five thousand Terrans were rounded up at gunpoint and locked up, either in large numbers in the halls and storehouses or in their own homes. Tomi was given the job of compiling a casualty list. As she went her rounds she was sick four times, until at last she could only retch painfully. The men with Tomi, trained soldiers, were cool and detached. An Adamite soldier was not trained to be without feelings -- he was trained to direct his feelings to maximum effect. A sergeant remarked at one point, "You have to give them credit. It's a fine job." Tomi stared at him uncomprehendingly. The sergeant felt called on to explain. "Well, they couldn't recapture the fort and they accepted that. An effort like this, directed against men on duty, would have been crushed in five minutes. Instead they killed as many of us as they could, as quietly as they could, so that they could go on all night. Itwas a night of Tomi could not understand him, but if his words had been translated any guerilla of any nation in history would have understood him at once. Wil Slent's attitude was different. To lose two hundred men in taking Fort Plato in battle would have been a mere nothing; indeed to take it at all with any loss would have been a remarkable achievement. But to take it with no loss and then allow half the occupying force to be butchered was a grave error.  "If I had a competent second in command," he admitted to Tomi, "it would be my duty to relinquish control to him. But Arol is dead. We have no other senior officer who speaks their language -- unless you want to take command?" "There has to be a Naval commander," Tomi said. "You have to stay in command." "My tactics were badly mistaken. But how could anyone guess," said Wil, justifying himself, "that any group of reasonable human beings would commit such an act while remaining completely in our power? The situation I set up should in itself have precluded any such possibility. We can draw two hundred replacements from the ship. They'll be here in twelve hours. The Terrans knew they could not overcome us. What could they hope to gain?" "Self-respect, perhaps," said Tomi. "They simply had to spit in our eye." "Yes, I have encountered such an attitude in my reading. Of course we must take the usual action. Three for one. Six hundred Terrans must be executed." Tomi nodded, but so reluctantly that Wil said, "You don't agree? You think it's harsh?" "I don't think it matters whether it's harsh or not. The point is, is it wise? I suggest you get Stewart here and tell hirii what you're proposing." "If I do, there can be no change. It is out of the question for me to declare my intention and not carry it out." "Then don't tell him your intention. Tell him what you propose IF to do and see what happens." "Very well. But why Stewart? It should be General Morrison." "Do you want to make it official? Then speak to General Morrison." "I see. Yes, your idea has merit, Tomi." When Stewart was told Wil Slent proposed to execute six hundred Terrans, he said, "It will be a long war." "What do you mean?" Stewart merely shrugged. "You think Earth will fight if we do this?" "Don't you?" "But no injustice will be committed. You Terrans treacherously fell on us and -- " Stewart laughed without humor. "You attack us, take ijis over -- and don't expect reprisals?' "You kill two hundred of us and don't expect reprisals?" Stewart unwrapped a peppermint and sucked it reflectively. "Slent, try to imagine the position exactly reversed. What would Adamites have done?" "Planned to overthrow you. Adamite officers would never have considered a pointless massacre like this." "Neither did ours." "I don't understand you at all." "You took over the station. You broke up our system of authority, our system of communication. General Morrison has not been in command even of the Terrans in the fort since your coup. It is nonsense to speak of what 'we' did. I know nothing of this. General Morrison knew nothing of it." "Would you have voted against the massacre if you had had a vote?" "Certainly." "On what grounds?" "Grounds of ethics, expediency, legality and cowardice, among others." "Cowardice? Fear?" "Not for myself. But the thought of the galactic war that might follow your doing the criminally stupid thing you propose frightens the life out of me." "Stewart, two hundred and one of us have been killed. By our laws, as an occupying force, the natural consequence is the execution of six hundred and three of you," "Any six hundred and three?" "All the assassins we can establish, plus others selected on a random basis." "And that's Adamite justice?" Wil flushed at the sudden biting incredulity in Stewart's tone. He knew, though, that Stewart could suit the tone of his voice to his purpose. Wil explained: "That's Adamite , expediency. Such things must not be allowed to happen again." "I suggest you forget the whole thing." For once Stewart had been stupid. "That's obviously impossible." "Agreed. Then forget the threeto-one ratio. Terrans used to believe in an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Deep down, we still do." "You mean we must execute only two hundred and one Terrans?" "I mean nothing of the sort. I mean you must forget the three-toone ratio." Wil nodded. "I understand you." He would not let the discussion go further. T he Great Nicolas proved to be a smallish man, quite bald, with an impediment in his speech of which there was no sign, when he was on stage. Doris remained in the room while he and Miller talked. She said nothing. She watched Miller steadily all the time. Grumeyer's manner was friendlier than his wife's. Miller easily understood why he had been a successful conman. "This is very interesting," Grumeyer said. "But you have nothing to go on but guesses? The man and girl you tell me about may be Adamites -- and may be telepaths?" Miller nodded. "You as a telepath," he said with some asperity, "should have no difficulty in checking on the latter possibility." "Not very much," Grumeyer agreed. "But I imagine you don't want these two alerted?" "You imagine correctly." "That makes it more difficult." "You are a telepath?" Miller asked bluntly. Grumeyer smiled. "I should have thought that has been clearly established." "One thing puzzles me. Scientists and psychologists still know very little about telepathy. Yet you have a telepathic act. And there are others. Why can't the scientists establish anything definite? Why don't they test you?" "I have been approached. Scientists always wish to study a thing under their conditions. They think up the test, set up the experiment and believe before it starts that it must be a good test because they have thought it up. This is rather like ruling that the best tennis player is the one who can hit most balls through a hole in the wall. Something is tested, but what? Certainly not the ability to win matches." "I see what you mean. I've heard you once were a good swindler." "Ah, that. I will explain. I had a miserable childhood. Doctor. I was genuinely misunderstood. I did not know that I was different, you see. Suddenly, when I was about fifteen, everything changed. I found it was easy to make people give me things. I could tell when I was pleasing them and when I was making them angry. I soothed IF them until they wanted to give me something. Girls, too." His eyes flickered briefly to Doris, who did not move. "My wife knows this. Even now women flock to me. I'm an ugly little man, yet women beg me not only for love but for anything else I care to give them. That is how I became what you call a swindler. The choicewas not mine. The profession was forced on me by my victims. At the time I could find nothing else I could do successfully. It was only when I met Doris that -- " He paused, then said more briskly, "There is one thing about telepathy the scientists find hard to believe and therefore make no attempt to prove -- it is a collaborative talent. Just as mindreading demands a mind to read and a mind to be read, two people can form a partnership many times more effective than any individual can be. These two are not the same, do not have the same functions. There is the fulcrum and the lever. Although the two individuals who form a team do not have to be man and wife, it does seem essential for them to be of different sexes. I have been able to meld with many women, but never really successfully with a man." "You work -- meld, you say -- with all the girls in your act?" "It's hard to say yes or no. There are no words for what scientists investigate but refuse to believe. I meld invariably and easily with Doris. I -- well, contact the other girls." "To return to the man and girl who call themselves Maribisans -- " "Yes, it's interesting that they are a man and girl -- interesting, too, that they claim to be father and daughter." "Claim to be?" "They may very well be so. My thought was merely that they would do so anyway. They would call themselves father and daughter, husband and wife or brother and sister because telepathic partnership demands proximity." Miller leaned forward, interested. "It doesn't work over distances?" "That's not what I mean at all. The partners have to be close, preferably within sight of each other. It's no use having a fulcrum here and a lever somewhere else." "I see. Another point occurs to me. One would imagine telepaths would sense other telepaths." "Yes." "Could the man and girl in Miinchen sense you as a more than usually talented telepath?" "No." "You are very definite." Grumeyer opened a drawer. He produced a piece of apparatus that resembled a primitive crystal set for the reception of radio signals. "Like many discoveries, this was made by accident," said Grumeyer. "Exactly what it does or why, I neither know nor care. I know its effect, which is all that matters. In the past we suffered interference. Mental interference. Thoughts from outside, thoughts we did not want. Probably my particular mental activity interested, stimulated, attracted similar mental activity." He placed the device back where he had found it, but did not close the drawer. "I discovered this apparatus by chance, as I told you. It has some kind of shorting or limiting effect. I set it before every performance. Although it does not interfere significantly with the act, it prevents telepaths far away from becoming interested." "Similar to jamming radio signals?" "Yes. Similar. But unlike jamming, it does not draw attention to itself. I call it the Blanket." "Mr. Grumeyer, are you going to help me?" "By going to Miinchen? No." "Any reasonable expenses -- " "Not a matter of money. If what you say is true I fear these people. Damage can easily be done in a mind. We all have a secret fear. I shall tell you mine -- fear of being physically sound and mentally crippled." "So you won't help?" "I did not say that either." He hesitated and finally said, "This I will promise you. If you learn that these two are enemies of our race, if you can honestly say they are dangerous -- immediately dangerous, not potentially dangerous -- ask me again and I may come." With that Miller had to be content. The Great Nicolas would go no further. And Doris merely looked at him silently... asked. "You've never heard of our Wonderlands?" She puckered her brows in thought. "I've heard of a book, Alice in Wonderland -- " "Our Wonderlands aie not quite like that, though there are similarities. Alice saw her Wonderland in a dream. We visit ours fully awake." "And you want me to come with you? Hugh, give me your word this isn't a trick." "What kind of trick?" he asked. "Wonderland is made up entirely of tricks. Nearly all the tricks we know are incorporated in it somewhere." She laughed. "Where is it? We didn't find it when we checked the station." "You probably thought it was just ballast." "Exactly what is it?" "A mixture of simulation and illusion and a little reality. For a few hours you'll be on Earth, in circumstances I know but you don't. It's better if you don't know. IF Often when we use it ourselves, we have someone else set the program for us." "The station is small. There can't be much room for this Wonderland." "More than you'd think. A certain mass is necessary for various reasons. If we didn't have a Wonderland, the space it takes up would be filled with ballast." "What's it for?" "Mainly to help keep us sane. To stop us from feeling too homesick." She was becoming curious. If Wonderland simulated conditions on Earth it was her duty to visit it. They went up from the living quarters in a slow elevator. "How many can be in Wonderland at once?" she asked. "Two at most settings. Four in some simple, static scenes. Only one in some complicated simulations." "And we just walk in? No preparation?" "Usually we change our clothes. That's all. Wonderland does the rest." The elevator stopped. They emerged in a blank steel corridor facing a double door. Beyond the door was a small totally bare room with two more doors. "Go in there and change," said Hugh. 'Then come out." Pariss found herself in a cubicle. Set out for her in front of a chute, with automated neatness, was a curious collection of garments: a blue insulated suit with a hood, boots with skates and a collection of equipment the purpose of which she had to guess. It was going to be cold. There would be snow and ice. She was used to this. Eden was a cold world except on the artificial islands. She changed quickly and picked up the strange equipment she was evidently supposed to take with her. Then she left the cubicle. "Like it?" Hugh asked. She was dazzled by the bright sun on the sparkling snow. Over to the left, about a thousand meters away, was a forest of green spiky trees. In front of her the ground fell gently to a frozen lake. To the right were blue mountains hazy with distance. She caught her breath -- and not from the cold. The air was clean and invigorating. Her breath froze and drifted away slowly, indicating hardly any wind. "How is it done?" she murmured. "Oh, don't bother about that. Can you skate?" The illusion, if such it was, was perfect. The snow was crisp and new, with no footprints but their own. The sky was clear light blue. They left their skis by the changing rooms -- which looked part of an Alpine hut -- and trudged down to the lake, where they helped each other to put on skates. Pariss skated well, but slightly to her chagrin Hugh skated better. The Terran attitude toward snow and ice was new to her. On Eden they were an inconvenience and all paths and roads were kept completely clear. Children and adults exercised and trained in the snow, but only young children played in it. One skated to get somewhere or for exercise, not for fun. She enjoyed skating with Hugh and soon learned some of his techniques. Previously she would have seen no point in skating backward or on one skate only except when changing over to the other. Hugh also learned quietly from what was new to Pariss. If there should be war between Terrans and Adamites, on the surface of worlds, it was important to know where the Adamites held an advantage. They might strike first at Northern Canada, Alaska, Russia, even the polar caps -- if they had been applying technology to snow and ice for centuries while Earth people for the most part had merely played in it or waited for a thaw. F or the first time, as she smoothed on the long gold dress she next found in the changing cubicle, Pariss had a fleeting glimpse of what clothes meant to Terran women. But the feeling was gone in a flash, Once again she gasped in wonder and admiration as she emerged, this time into a brightly lit ballroom in which scores of people were dancing. This, she knew at once, was a Grand Ball, a great occasion, The music was strange to her ears, although she had listened dutifully to taped Terran music. The beat, however, was obvious -- one, two, three, one, two, three. This was what they called a waltz. The magnificently dressed dancers were bobbing gracefully in simple steps which Pariss, a good dancer, was able to pick up in a few seconds. The men were all in black and white, the women in all the colors of the rainbow. Hugh appeared, dressed like the other men in a black suit with a dazzling white shirt and a white tie. "May I have the pleasure?" he asked. The illusion was nearly perfect. Once or twice she tried to touch the other dancers, but they always moved gently away. "Those drinks they're carrying can't be real," she said. "No, but you can have one if you like." "How?" "I'll show you." He went to the buffet and returned with two glasses. She noticed that people moved easily out of his way. She drank and danced with Hugh again, less successfully. IF because the steps were more elaborate than those of the waltz. She turned down Hugh's invitation to go out on the balcony. She was not sure what she would do if he became even friendlier. So they went back to the doors from which they had emerged and once again she was in the bare changing cubicle. The clothes she found this time were unexpected. After the snow and the ballroom, she had expected the next scene to be even more glamorous and probably aphrodisiac -- perhaps a luxury apartment high above a city, late at night, with wine and supper. She was hungry and would have welcomed the supper. But the clothes she found were coarse trousers and tunic, with underclothes so plain and utilitarian she knew there could be no glamor in the next scene. She dressed and hesitated, reluctant this time to go out, remembering that after all Hugh was -- or might consider himself to be -- an enemy. H aving gone so far, Wil Slent would budge no further. Two hundred and one Adamites had been killed. Two hundred and one Terrans had to die. And since it would be impossible to establish the identity of all the assassins, the two hundred and one would be selected at random, every twentyfifth name on the personnel list in alphabetical order, excluding only those under eighteen. The execution of two hundred Terrans must go on. It did. It was done as humanely as possible. The Terrans were sent, to lunch one day in groups of two hundred. One group was never seen again. Among those who were executed were General Morrison, whose name was selected at random from the list, and the wife of the chief medical officer. Nils Hakstrott. Previously he, like Stewart, had been as neutral as possible in the circumstances, prepared to sit out the Adamite occupation. When his wife, who was at least half the taciturn Scandinavian's life, was executed -- the gentle Delise had been the last person among the five thousand Terrans likely to kill any human being under any circumstances -- Nils Hakstrott decided coldly that he personally was going to avenge her. T he Out warders were friendly in an earthy way and Red was typical. The women accepted Verne with neither enthusiasm nor resentment. She was there -- and that was that. The men made crude advances, which stopped abruptly when Red made it clear she was already claimed. She was given a desk and told to copy a plan. It was an apparently easy job with several pitfalls. She did her very best and her boss, a vast man called Eric Manvin, was satisfied and said so. He showed his satisfaction by putting her at once on a difficult job, a defense network soon to be established against raids by the gnomes and hemmers. It consisted of a central fort and a series of boundary outposts linked to the fort by both surface and underground tunnels. The specifications and requirements were supplied and it was up to her to solve the many problems. She worked with three men and two women. The range of work was immense; everything that required plans was handled here. At the first break for coffee she told Eric, "I've met your brother." "Fred?" ' "We were on the road in the gale, my father and I. He came out for us. He saved our lives." Eric seemed reluctant to talk about Fred. Presently he said, "Fred doesn't have all his onions, girl." "All his what?" "You know. There's something missing in him. Ma was nearly killed by a hemmer while she was carrying him. Doctors say that shouldn't have anything to do with it, but I don't know. Fred's scared of nothing but hemmers'" Verne thought of the stocky bluff gateman. As she formed a casual mental contact she became aware of something urgent. She didn't stop to think. "The gate!" she exclaimed. She whirled to claw at the door and found Eric there before her. "Fred?" he asked. They ran. The gate was perhaps three hundred meters from the drawing office. On the way they collected three other men. One had a shotgun. When they burst into the gatehouse a hemmer was sucking the last drop of blood from the body of Fred Manvin. The hemmer was about the size of a large dog and roughly the same shape, but the six legs and head were amorphous, like those of the gnomes. The long tongue was the hemmer's strike weapon. The shotgun went off over Verne's shoulder. The hemmer, not disabled, turned and lashed at Eric with its tongue. Eric sawed savagely and successfully in the air with his knife. The tip of the tongue, almost severed, dripped blood -- Fred's blood. The four men knew what to do. The man with the shotgun threw it away. They fell on the hemmer with knives and whatever heavy objects came to hand -- clubs, a lamp, a steel rod. They beat the hemmer to a pulp.' That this was necessary was shown by its struggles and the vicious lashing of its tongue after its owner should have been dead. There was red blood and green blood. The red blood was Fred's IF the green the hemmer's. The creature was reduced to small green-brown balls. One of the men looked around and found a small blowlamp which he applied to the residue. It did not burn easily and tended to roll away. He rolled all the balls outside, turned up the flame and incinerated them. Only a little black dust was left. Eric was looking down at Fred, a strange expression on his face. He showed no sorrow. What he felt Verne thought, was shame. "Poor Fred," said Eric. "He was never afraid of anything but hemmers." After Fred's bloodless corpse had been taken away to be disposed of, Eric and the other men looked around to see where the hemmer had come from -- an important matter, Verne understood. They found a small gap in the fence near the gate, where something heavy had been dashed violently in the storm. "That's it," Eric said, "The beast saw the gap, crept through, waited behind the gatehouse until Fred opened the door, then jumped him. It had the sense to kill him inside where nobody could see what was going on," It was only then that he reverted to the most remarkable feature of the affair, "How did you know, girl?" he asked, fixing her with his hard gaze. Verne could tell him only a part of the truth. "I've never seen a hemmer before," she said, "but I think I can tell when they're about." To her relief, Eric nodded. "Some people have claimed the gift -- usually about gnomes. But you can't sense gnomes, can you? You once walked in on one." "Now I might be able to." He shook his head. "Don't count on it, girl. Anyone I ever heard of who claimed to be able to sense gnomes or hemmers was killed by one or the other. Maybe it works sometimes. When you start thinking it always works you get careless and -- " He made a gruesome sucking noise, looked at her curiously. He had shown not one sign of grief over Fred. "Things happen around you, girl. Be careful. You're a good draftsman. I don't want to lose you." T wice Pariss had emerged into a blaze of light. This time she found herself in a world of blackness, sudden flashes, noise and menace. Hugh caught her arm. She could scarcely see him. A searchlight flicked on, then off. She had a glimpse of tall buildings all around her. The droning she had noted almost unconsciously came from the sky. The crumps which vibrated the air about her ears and shook the ground under her feet could only be explosions. As her eyes became accustomed to the scene she discovered that there was really a good deal of light, particularly to her left, where a red glow lit the sky. And as her ears learned to discriminate she found that the street was not deserted, as she had thought. Many people were scurrying in the black shadows. A man in a steel helmet emerged from the gloom, clearly visible as the red glow over the rooftops suddenly swelled to flames. "Get off the street," he yelled. "What the hell do you think you're doing?" Pariss and Hugh sought shadows and found a narrow opening, a mere lane. They hurried along it, more to get away frorn the bawling man than anything else. As they went, they heard him shouting at somebody else. At the other end of the lane they found themselves in a more open space. Abruptly all was brightly lit -- at least a score of searchlights came on, searching for and finding a dark winged shape droning over the city. They saw bombs drop. Then the bomber changed course and the searchlights lost it. They caught a smaller plane, evidently one of the defenders, for the lights flicked off again and the darkness seemed ten times greater than before. "Where are we?" she asked. "In London in an air raid. Not contemporary. This was centuries ago.Why -- " A building no more than two hundred meters away opened out and collapsed and Hugh threw her to the ground. There was no flash, but the noise deafened Pariss. She hit the ground and Hugh landed heavily on top of her. She was angry -- this was only play-acting. However, as her back was spattered with small stones and she felt a fierce blast of hot air over her, she wasn't so sure. "This is a hot spot," said Hugh, pulling her to her feet. "Let's get out of it." She tried to protest, but he was dragging her so fast she had to save her breath for running. They came to a blazing store. Firemen were hosing the buildings nearby, ignoring the doomed structure. In the street were scores of dazed people in nightclothes, some grotesquely wearing steel helmets and pajamas, most carrying gas masks. A child dashed at Pariss and then dodged away. A breath of wind sighed along the street and the next moment they were drenched in cold water. The water supply for the hoses had suddenly been cut and the weak jets were blown back on the firefighters. The water, at least, was real. The droning swelled. As searchlights stabbed the sky again Pariss caught glimpses of whole waves of bombers. The heat from the fire was burnIF ing her face. Although she still resented the futility of this demonstration, she turned and ran to the other side of the street as she heard a child wailing. She didn't find the child and she lost Hugh. The blazing building suddenly collapsed into the street, a terrifying sight, engulfing the firemen and the homeless people in blazing rubble. Not believing in the still flickering debris in front of her, she started to approach it to prove to herself it was illusion. The heat drove her back. Still annoyed with Hugh, she decided to make her way back, leaving him to follow. There would be a door, as usual, looking like a typical door in this beleaguered city, but opening into the cubicle. She could not find the way back. When she thought she had found the lane, it proved to be the wrong lane. Instead of retracing her steps she tried to find the street they had started from. Soon she was hopelessly lost. Because she was uneasy, hungry, wet and cold and because she was alone and could see no way out of this ghastly illusion she began to curse Hugh. It had been pleasant and interesting to skate, to dance. What pleasure was there in this? When she was approaching despair, for the noise alone made her want to scream, she realized she was in a place very like the street where the man in the tin hat had shouted at her and Hugh. She searched all around for the door out of this tortured city. She could not find it. No door would open for her. Trying to remember exactly what had happened when she first found herself in this whirl of destruction, she could be sure of nothing except that Hugh had guided her. Without him she was lost. As she turned from another doorknob which almost certainly led nowhere anyway, she bumped into someone. "Pariss!" said Hugh. "What happened to you when the building collapsed?" "Never mind that. Let's get out of here." Still angry with him, she was torn between relief at finding him, the desire to flare at him and impatience to escape from this mad, hellish world. The last was most important. Telling him what she thought of him could wait. "We can't leave at this moment. We've got to go through that lane and it's blocked." "Get me out of here!" she said, not loudly, but with passion. "The raid will be over in an hour or less. Then it'll be easy to get back where we started. I've found a workmen's hut. We can wait there. This way." Her nerves were in rags. She wanted to scream at him. A door opened. She was led inside. A match scraped and she saw the inside of the hut. In one corner was a spade, in another a pick. Hugh was lighting an oil lamp. Two small windows had black material draped over them. On the bare boards of the floor lay a thin paillasse. Two chipiped ipugs, an old kettle, a small stove and a spoon lay on an inverted fishbox. There was nothing else. She exploded hysterically. She didn't know what she said. For the first time she lost some of her perfect English and used Adamite words. Hugh smiled and she threw herself at him. He caught her wrists and kissed her and suddenly she admitted what she had known all along, that she wanted this man. All that mattered was: did he care about her as something other than an Adamite adversary. If he remained coldly calculating she would punish him. It was she who dragged him down. He was startled, then enthusiastically cooperative. She said what was in her mind. "Forget I'm an Adamite. If you don't care about me as a woman I'll kill you." F ull contact was made after five exploratory efforts. It was easy to arrange full concentration in the two stations, but Gilen and Don had difficulty making sure they would be alone and undisturbed -- and Verne could be in Sal's company only in the presence of other patients. There is a very serious situation here, tragic and possibly disastrous Details of massacre and reprisals. A strong line must be taken with the Terrans on all fronts... Nonsense. How can we take a strong line here? Tomi, are you sure the execution of the Terrans was necessary? cision. He felt he had no choice. en: We are in the Terrans' hands. We are almost Jielpless. It may be necessary to request permission to use our special abilities if we are to achieve anything at all. #: Hugh, and I communication not in words. Shock, alarm, interest. haven't been tricked, Pariss? no consequence. When you hold a secret that -- IF about that now. Hugh has quite considerable telepathic potential, but there is no risk whatever that he will develop further without being trained. I could train him, I think -- not! Don't get the idea I've changed sides. er together. We have lost our bond. Experience must change us -- and our present experiences are very different. Tomi, it's a great pity such decisive and irrevocable action has been taken. out consultation. It may mean ruin. pretty good people. I have found no reason to fight them. Here on Outward the settlers are totally indifferent to Eden. From my experiences, I have no reason to back any Adamite aggression against Terrans. only by fighting could we get what we want. But I think we would lose... agree. There must be an answer... agree on an answer when the problems are not the same? T he rivulets mingled with more turbulence than ever before. Verne was the most decisive, the most positive. Gilen was the most tentative. Pariss was the most complex; the others sensed her conflict and at the same time a new serenity and smugness in her that irritated them. Tomi, once she found that a strong line in her post was favored by nobody, began to question Wil's action more than she had done previously. She broke the contact because she wanted to think. F ort Plato was seething. The executions had united the Terrans as nothing else could have done. Previously there had been many cautious spirits. The retaliatory executions, in which by rough Terran estimate about ten guerillas had been included with one hundred and ninety innocent people, changed all that. On the face of it, how the Terrans felt had ceased to matter. They were now treated as a conquered garrison. When not working or eating they were locked in their rooms. Large-scale plotting was made virtually impossible. The replacement Adamites, who had not known the easy mingling of the first few days, were tough jailers. To them the Terrans were dangerous and treacherous enemies. When a small Terran group went berserk, a dozen men rushing a single Adamite, he did not shoot to stunned them and the offenders were taken off in a tender to the Adamite ship, which no Terran had ever been allowed to visit and return. Miinchen a message from Miss Heilbron was waiting for him. Dear Dr. Miller:. Please come and see me immediately. It's vitally important. Naturally I cannot act without first seeing you. Yours faithfully, Margaret Heilbron He smiled a wintry smile. She had a flat near the Prinzregententheater, He knew the address but had never been there. She opened the door to him herself. The warmth of her welcome took him aback. Searching suspiciously for irony in her attitude as she brought him a drink, he admitted reluctantly to himself that possibly her friendliness was genuine. She lounged easily and elegantly on the arm of a chair, a drink in her hand. "Do you remember the purser on the Nora? The report on him? "Very well. I read it a dozen times. Norman Gliick." "Good. He seems to have missed a trip for medical reasons and had to be cleared medically. The doctors became interested in the psychriatric angle -- " "So were we all," said Miller. "But he refused to cooperate." "Ah, you weren't in the fortunate position of being his employers. The company doctors refused to pass him until he completed any treatment they chose. Now it seems his vehement insistence on certain 'facts' has convinced the doctors that they must be untrue." Miller nodded. "That he harbored certain emotional beliefs was obvious." "The man and the girl we are interested in were not on the ship when it started from Hylon. They were not on it a week out of Miinchen. They were on it six days out." "The ship didn't stop in space?" "Impossible. I mean, if there had been some kind of rendezvous in space, even one nobody saw or remembered afterward, the time and fuel schedules would reveal it. That is, unless a ship nobody saw matched velocity with the Nord and somehow managed a transfer." IF "Thank you, Miss Heilbron. You've given me a key." "To what?" "To open a door, obviously." He could reach her phone without getting up. He used it to send a wire to The Great Nicolas. Its purport was: IVe need you. Please come, pital he took Fred Manvin's job as gatekeeper for the time being. Great mobility was not required. Verne remained with Red, although she could have moved in with one of the single women. She continued to keep him at arm's length. She knew that coarse jokes were being made about the situation. Red was surprisingly and uncharacteristically tolerant of the ribbing. He made no secret of his determination to have Verne in the end. She found it hard even to be sure she liked him. She went on living in his house principally because she was used to him. Only once, when he came home drunk, did he try to force himself on her. She dislocated his shoulder with a judo lock he had never encountered. He bore no malice; everyone had a right to defend himself -- or herself. Anyway, she put the shoulder back in place for him. They met after work each day and went home together. This became habit and, one day when Red was delayed a little, Verne found she didn't want to go home without him. She waited outside although quite heavy rain was falling. When he appeared he seemed surprised she had waited. "Sorry, baby," he said. "I couldn't help it. Busy. Don't bawl me out." "I never bawl you out." "No, you don't, do you? except when I swear." "Swearing is untidy. It's not washing your face or not putting on a clean shirt." "Never thought of it that way, baby. Look, I got a haunch of steak. Not tinned steak. Frozen, but thawing out nicely now. We're going to have the best dinner we've had in months." She expressed natural interest. "Where did it come from?" "Base settlement up north has started a cattle farm. It hasn't been tried before because everybody thought the gnomes and hemmers would go for the cattle -- and it's a big enough job protecting animals from the climate without trying to protect them from gnomes and hemmers as well. But finally some cattle were brought in and the gnomes ignore them. So do the hemmers." "That's strange." "Maybe not. We've never managed to keep a gnome in captivity -- they either get away or kill themselves. But we know that for meat they eat only humans or other gnomes." Verne shuddered. Eden had no history of cannibalism, and she found the idea even more shocking than Terrans did. "Seems that -- like some cannibals in our own history -- they believe you become what you eat." They reached the house and were soaked to the skin. Verne hesitated. Red looked at her inquiringly. "Red," she said quietly, "there's something in the house." Red was instantly alert. "Hemmer?" "I don't know." He took a whistle from his pocket, the general alarm. "Want me to blow this?" "No -- I'm not sure enough." He nodded. When there was an alarm in Camp Eleven everybody dropped everything and ran to the spot. If it was a false alarm the people responsible looked uncommonly foolish. "I'll get a gun," Red said and moved to the alarm post only twenty yards away. "It's a gnome," she said. "The same one." "You don't know for sure there's anything there -- but you know it's the same one?" Red's tone was not mocking. He was genuinely seeking information, at least clarification of her hunch. "It couldn't be the same one, could it? The house was checked top and bottom after -- " "Gnomes are cunning, baby, and yours hates you. Maybe he found another way back. We have to have ventilation, and gomes can flow like water. You stay behind me. He opened the front door no more quietly nor loudly than his custom, strode in as usual. "Kitchen," Verne whispered. Red kicked the kitchen door open, not entering the room. The gnome was in the center of the floor as before. Its arms lashed out, hit the walls on each side of the doorway. Gnomes tended to flail rather than project their arms. Except for the split-second delay, the gnome might have reached Red. Red blasted the creature and moved closer, cutting it up with his beam. It took a long time to that of the hemmer. Pieces of gnome were not harmless like those of the other murderous species. If they happened to have a few brain cells the pieces went on fighting. After the gnome was killed the kitchen had to be cleaned. When the job was done, Verne said, "Let's put the steak away for tonight, Red. I couldn't eat it. I couldn't even cook it." Red nodded understandingly. Verne suddenly sensed strongly that Red loved her. Her courage in the previous encounter with the gnome had won him over completely -- since then he had acted as IF he had never acted before, waiting patiently for her because he was completely certain that she was worth waiting for. And Verne discovered in a blinding flash the difference it made to a girl to know that she was loved. She held out her arms to him. A Hugh," Pariss said, troubled, "if it didn't make me a traitress." He nodded. They were lying naked on a sunny beach in Wonderland. This was not only the most romantic setting they had been able to find -- it was also the most private. "You're worried," he said. "You feel something's gone wrong. Look, Pariss -- I don't want to make you betray your people. If you did that, they'd execute you, wouldn't they?" "Yes. But I might not be there to let them do it." He thought that over for a long time. At last he said "I see. I'm glad. The trouble is -- we might execute you." "If I chose to stay?" "Well, it would depend on what had happened. You said there were four echelons. Pariss, I can be pretty impartial. Maybe I can help. Don't betray your people, but tell me what's worrying you." "Yes, I will. In Fort Plato, two hundred Terrans and two hundred Adamites have died. And not in battle." "That's bad," said Hugh quietly"It's very bad. I know." "Can you tell me how?" "Oh, revolt and reprisal. The Terrans killed first." Hugh sat up, staring out across the unreal sea. "That may help. You've told me the truth about the purpose of this operation? You just want to find out about us?" She was silent. "So there's more." She sat up too, suddenly clutching his arm. "Hugh, I want to tell you. If I could only believe it was for the good of all of us -- " "Can't you tell me about the three other parts of this operation? We're bound to learn about them in the end. Isn't that so?" She nodded. At first hesitantly, then more freely, she told him of the quadruplets -- Wil, Far, Don and Sal -- and about Wil's quadruplet daughters: Tomi, Gilen, Verne and herself. Hugh listened quietly, asking hardly any questions. "So that was the background at Fort Plato," he said at last. "Your father acted exactly as your uncle did here. There was no proper Adamite control. The massacre happened because it was allowed to happen. Pariss, you're heading for failure -- catastrophic failure." He spoke with such conviction that she went suddenly pale. "Failure?" "I could take this station over again in one hour." "You swear that, Hugh? It's not a trick? But why are you telling me?" "Because," he said slowly, "I'm going to save you if I can." C ontact was easier now that Sal was out of the hospital. ward: I've gone a step further than Pariss. I've married Red. Verne, you're crazy! it a lot crazier to execute two hundred Terrans? thinks I should have stopped that somehow. Anyway, we're clamping down now. tion #: Hasn't there been too much clamping down already? Hugh says he's scared to think about what's going to happen on Fort Plato. You've told him? You've told him everything? our main aim. But he has told me many things. We'll all be lucky just to escape. Terrans aren't so marvelous. would be prepared to leave now. Without the seed? make a maximum effort, we might escape with the seed. is panic. Our control here is absolute -- think. all you can, but do not touch Hugh's mind. Gilen, plan to steal what we want, if necessary by maximum effort, but don't act until I give the word. Verne -- What advice for me? tense that Stewart, Terran liaison officer after the death of General Morrison, had any real authority. The Adamites were able to bring minor offenders before him and, as often as not, he was permitted to decide what was to be done. Leaders of the various sections into which the Terrans had been divided reported to him regularly. A girl who reported on the stenographer section gave him a paper to sign and with it was a small slip, reading: IF The girl made a slight gesture and he understood he was to eat the paper at the earliest opportunity. His reaction was mainly exasperation. The first plot had been disastrous. The massacres had accomplished nothing to the advantage of anyone. Here was another melodramatic plan. It was not difficult to get the crumpled rice paper into his mouth with a peppermint and swallow it. Two hours later, going for lunch, he had to descend two floors. He had a strong impulse to use the stairs. However, he would probably not be allowed to evade this thing even if he wanted to. He took the elevator. He entered with no trouble and was rather hoping the plan had already collapsed. When his floor was reached he was gently but firmly pushed back by the others in the elevator, so that he was last to emerge. The gate closed on his foot. He tried to cry out exactly as he would have done if he had had no warning at all. Two Adamite guards turned quickly and brought up their guns. The door slid open again. He pitched forward. The Adamites knew who he was. They called their own medical officer to attend to him. Stewart's foot was badly bruised, but not seriously crushed. A Terran clinic orderly turned up, looked at the foot casually and said Stewart should go to the clinic. The three Adamites spoke no English between them. They sent for an interpreter. Tomi came. "Very funny, isn't it?" Stewart asked. Tomi, who had not smiled, started in surprise. A quality Stewart had not previously revealed was peevishness. Stewart's tactics succeeded admirably. Instead of being sympathetic, instead of insisting that he get the best Adamite care, she shrugged and left him to his bad temper and the Terran clinic. For two hours after he reached the clinic nothing happened that was not entirely routine. His foot was treated. The two Adamite guards in the clinic seldom entered the two small wards. At last the chief medical officer. Nils Hakstrott, came to see him. Hakstrott said, "Sorry, Stewart, but we had to get you in here somehow. The last gesture of defiance, I presume you agree, was cretinous. This one is designed to defeat the Adamites utterly." At Stewart's inquiring look he explained: "Oh, yes, we can talk here. These clinics are prefabricated, so the scanners were added afterward. The one in here has been out of order for three months and we've made sure the Adamites never had a chance to install one of their own. Stewart, I want you to understand first of all that the present scheme is worlds apart from the earlier one. All the top men except yourself have already been consulted. It's a plan, not a pious hope." "With the object of recapturing Fort Plato?" "Yes. Their ship may attack us in retaliation, but we hope to be ready for that." "The facts, please." "Yes. Perhaps you don't know it, but I was formerly in Chemical Warfare." Stewart had not known -- and that was good, because it meant few people did... "Before the unfortunate massacre I had ideas of my own -- they had come to nothing. But now, the Adamites have murdered my wife. Perhaps you wonder if I can be trusted to be rational. Well, rather to my personal disappointment, the plan does not involve the death of many Adamites, maybe none." Stewart merely nodded. "I managed to examine and test several of the Adamite devices they rely on to ensure that the air is not tampered with, the water, their food. Quite effective, all of them. They would give the alarm at once. But every such device is a challenge." "And you've found a way to beat the devices?" Hakstrott was not to be hurried. "There's a way of buffering drugs," he said ruminatively, "to delay their effect and make it cumulative. You take them at two o'clock and they don't even begin to work until six. When you start assimilating them, nothing happens. The drug continues to build up until, perhaps, you have a lethal dose inside you and you still don't keel over. Using certain drugs and certain buffering agents, I can arrange that the victims will suspect nothing -- because there are no symptoms -- until what seems like ordinary fatigue overwhelms them." "And this is the treatment you prescribe for the Adamites?" "Yes. The difficulty is making sure they'll take it." "I can see that might be a difficulty." "Our only practical solution is to take it with them." "That's practical?" "I told you I examined their warning devices. We can't directly contaminate their food supplies. Naturally they thought of that. But we can drug the water and their devices won't detect the drug." "How far has this gone?" Stewart asked. "And exactly why am I being consulted?" "You are to approve," said Hak'strott gently. "I am to approve. Mind if I ask why?" "So that we are all in this together. Unlike the idiocy. How IF far has it gone? It can be set in motion at any time." "And the chances of success?" "Excellent. The drug will be administered in the water used for cooking andthe water from which beverages are prepared. The schedule will be such that people will get tired at just about the time when they would normally expect to get tired." "I see." And Stewart did see. As Hakstrott claimed, this plan was quite different from the guerillas' revolt. To annoy a dangerous enemy without incapacitating him only made future action more difficult, perhaps impossible. To defeat a dangerous enemy cess. Adamites were predictable. They still judged Terrans by themselves. Without prompting, Stewart was able to see the further implications of the plan. Of course the nightshift Adamites would be asleep and would not be affected. Fortunately the Adamites, like Terrans, kept only a skeleton staff on night duty. It was the duty of the day-staff Adamites to enforce the curfew, herd the Terrans in the fort into their night quarters, lock them up and hand over to the small night staff of about seventy a batteneddown station, secure and easy to guard. If Hakstrott's plan worked, the seventy night-duty Adamites would emerge into a fort completely under Terran control. "Yes," said Stewart. "What do you mean, yes?" "I mean I agree." "I'm glad. I don't know what I'd have done if you hadn't" T here was no need for them to whisper, hut they did, knowing Gilen and Don Slent were in the next room. "Even with you and Mrs. Grumeyer as close as this, you think they sense nothing?" Miller murmured. "We don't," said The Great Nicolas, "so probably they don't" Grumeyer carefully set his little crystal device. In drab, inconspicuous clothes, Nick and his glamorous wife would never have rated a second glance. Miss Heilbron was not present. Her job was elsewhere. Two policemen stood by the door, silent, waiting for orders. A light tap on the door told them that Don Slent had left the building. Grumeyer and Doris sat down. They did not link hands or even look at each other. "Now, please," said Grumeyer to Miller, including the two policemen with a gesture, "don't talk, whatever happens. I'll talk. Doris may talk. We won't disturb our own concentration, but you could." After a pause he said casually, conversationally, "She knows she's being probed, but she is not particularly worried." Miller had to clench his fists in the effort not to ask questions. The girl was not particularly worried? An Adamite secretly among Terrans, physically helpless against them, suddenly aware that she was being probed mentally -- and she was not particularly worried? "This girl," said Grumeyer, "is nervous and timid when there is little danger. She finds courage when it is needed. Her potential is even greater than I thought. She knows there are telepaths among us, but is surprised that we have units too. She is one of four -- of eight -- ril try to get thaf clearer." "Quadruplets," said Doris. "Her sisters and her father's brothers." "Yes, I see. The Adamites have only four such units. In sum they have far less telepathic experience than Terrans, but ours is spread thin among scores of individuals and theirs is concentrated in four practical partnerships of two." While they calmly and methodically took the girl's mind to pieces. Miller was bursting to ask a score of questions. In particular, what was Gilen doing about all this? By chance, he got one of the answers at once. "She's as interested in this as we are," said Grumeyer. "Although she's trying not to give anything away she -- Doris?" "She doesn't resent us," said Doris. "But other resentments... She is not wholly in favor of the enterprise she's engaged in. None of her sisters are. Yet something deep, something emotional makes her -- " "She does hate Terrans," Grumeyer exclaimed. "Very deep down -- " "No, it's not hate. You might as well say love." "Love-hate. I get a curious idea she waTerran." Doris cried out as if in pain. Grumeyer started and stared at her. "I'm all right," said Doris, though she was very pale. "She didn't like that. She knew you thought she was a Terran, and she hit back at you for thinking it." "If she hit back, she missed me." "She didn't miss me -- " "Now why should she lash out at the very thought that she might be a Terran?" Miller could have answered that. All Adamites had to believe they were the First People. Telling Gilen she was a Terran was denying her most fundamental belief. In his own way Grumeyer was working around to this conclusion. "She's an Adamite, yes. She was born on Eden and until a few months ago... Something happened a few months ago. Doris, can you get that? A few months ago somebody made her believe something that isn't true -- or denied something that is true. She's IF fighting to keep a secret deep in her mind, something we Terrans are not to be allowed to find out -- " "Nick!" said Doris, suddenly, warningly, and stretched out her hand to him. But it was she who suddenly went white and rigid. Grumeyer cried out, jumped up and bent over Doris. And Miller signaled to the policemen to take the Adamite girl. T hey were all in Gilen's room. Doris was there too. If she was harmed it was not physically. Gilen was quite docile. She looked curiously at Grumeyer, at Doris. Miller and the policemen did not interest her. Strangely, she apologized to Doris, who was pale and shaken. "I had to stop you. You were tearing me apart." "Doris?" said Grumeyer anxiously. Doris smiled. "Fortunately, by pure chance, I don't mind. I don't mind that when the skin grows again, I won't be a telepath. I never wanted to be a telepath. But as you hit out -- I got what you were trying to hide. Your superiors sent you on this mission with certain things blocked in your mind. Certain things some Adamites know." Doris shook her head and leaned back. Nick fussed over her for a moment, but turned from her after a few whispered words. He spoke not to Gilen, as Doris had done, but to Miller. "There's something implanted in that girl. We are the real people. She has to believe it. It's quite false, a purely emotional belief -- " The policemen had to restrain Gilen as she tried to get at Grumeyer and stop him saying what he was saying. "This whole operation," said Nick, "was tentative partly because Adamites would always expect to be defeated by Terrans. That explains their instant withdrawal fifty years ago when -- " "I could not tell you what you most want to know," Gilen interrupted, "because I don't know it either." Nick looked a little puzzled. "She's trying to hide something she doesn't even know. This is strange. Doris?" "I think it's something that one of her sisters knows." . "Yes. But we didn't get their names or locations." Miller smiled thinly, looking at Gilen. "That can't be hidden deep. We can easily get it from her." Gilen sat up proudly. "You'll never get anything out of me." "I think," said Miller, "we already have what we want to know from Don Slent." A few minutes later this was confirmed. On his arrest. Don was shot full of truth drugs. And Margaret Heilbron knew the right questions to ask. E ric was not anxious to have Councilor Hardinge speak to Verne privately. The outcome might be his loss of her services. But the security of the settlement had top priority. In Eric's tiny office Hardinge said, "I'm Job Hardinge. You're Verne? Well, Verne, twice you've known about gnomes and hemmers and the council wants to know how. Is it anything we can use?" She shook her head. "Just a hunch. A feeling of danger "Sure, I know that. If we haul you out of here could you organize a defense group?" "I don't want to be hauled out of here. I'm doing important work. I like it and I'm doing it well." Like most Outwarders, Hardinge was big and tough. Perhaps the gnomes got those who were not, Verne thought. "There's nothing more important than beating the gnomes. What can you do? For instance, if you led a group of us with guns out on the plain, could you find where gnomes were hiding?" "I doubt it. I can sort of smell danger -- that's nothing new. A lot of other people -- " "Could you find other people like that?" It was possible she could, but only by revealing more about her telepathic ability than she wanted to. "No," she said. "Verne, you're not cooperating. I can understand that you like working here and don't want anybody to interfere with you. Sure, the work you're doing is important and you're good at it, but the point is your work her can wait. We have to do something about the gnomes and the hemmers if we're to go on existing." "That's exactly the point," said Verne. "Why? Why go on trying to build a settlement here?" "Oh hell. Quit stalling. We're here. That's it. And the immedihemmers. Or stopping them from asking you -- how can you help against the gnomes and hemmers? You have something. Tell me how we can use it." "I'll have to talk it over with Red." "Sure, do that. Red Conrad knows what it's all about. And then come and see me." She talked it over with Red and he put her straight. Until recently she had taken it for granted that her present situation was temporary. Now that she was forced to examine her motives, she began to wonder if she could ever really walk out on him. After talking to Red she went to IF the town hall and found Hardinge. "I see now what you were getting at this afternoon" she said. 'Thank Christ for that." "Mr. Hardinge, I object to swearing. I realize it"s only a matter of making certain meaningless noises; but -- " "All right, never mind that. Go on." "I have certain ideas. If you arranged for Red and me to be free; for a while and gave us about a dozen people to work with -- including my father -- and an open mole -- " "What good would a mole be if it was open?" "Just an idea I have. You could give us a damaged one." "And what would you do?" "Scour the plain around here. Something might come of it." When he heard about this, Sal was not enthusiastic. "We won't be here much longer," he said. "We have to find out all we can about the Terrans. The local life is irrelevant -- " "Not to them." "I know, but what good is it to find out about gnomes and hemmers? We'd never try to colonize this world." "No, we wouldn't, would we?" "The enterprise is doomed to failure. The people here admit they're never likely to trade advantageously with other worlds. They also admit they're nowhere near being independent. They must eventually abandon this planet." "Do you see any sign they will?" "They're stubborn. But they'll finally give in." "I don't think so." Indeed, she knew they never would and rather despised Sal for not seeing it. Terrans had a mulish streak; Adamites were far too rational not to give in when they were beaten. But so often when you were beaten -- you were not. O NE day Hakstrott himself brought Stewart his lunch, and set it down on the bed table in a way that told Stewart at once that this was The Day. "Eat that," said Hakstrott. "Eat it all, because you won't get anything else today." Stewart started in on a big portion of roast beef, roast potatoes and peas. He asked, "It's been done?" Hakstrott nodded. "Two hours ago. We waited until the day's menu was one that gave us a perfect opportunity." "How is it going to work?" "First lunch is on now. Terrans and Adamites together. Water has been used in preparing everything on the menu, Terran or Adamite, except the roast beef and the potatoes. The peas are from cans. Only about three hundred of us know what's been done. That'll be enough." "And the others won't suspect anything?" "Why should they? Our three hundred, not all at one sitting, refuse soup, order roast beef and roast potatoes, no dessert, no coffee. They call for a bottle of beer. The others, those who don't know, have soup or dessert or drink the lemonade on the tables or have tea or coffee afterwards." "And the Adamites who don't eat Terran food?" "Water is used in all the dishes on the menu today. And in their acat, of course. What they drink instead of coffee." "Nobody will die?" "No. Nobody will even be drowsy in the afternoon. But an hour after supper everyone except our three hundred will want to lie down. Some will go to bed early. Others will sit down and fall asleep in their chairs." "Supper -- how's that going to be fixed?" "All food will be cooked in water or have water in it. This time those in the know will say they're not hungry and will just have a piece of chocolate cake and a bottle of soda." In the big dining rooms the plan, because it was basically simple, was working flawlessly. Every Adamite except Wil and Tomi attended one of the lunch sittings, Hakstrott told Stewart later. "The girl's okay. She's been seen drinking acat. We don't know about Slent. He's shut in his room as usual." "He often has nothing but biscuits and cheese," Stewart mused. "He drinks acat all day." "Yes, but he has an urn in his room that was probably filled early today -- before the water was treated." "It doesn't matter," said Hakstrott confidently. "He's being watched, of course. He'll be dealt with along with the night guards." T omi came to see Stewart in midafternoon. She did not refer to his peevishness at their last meeting. This time he made his manner friendly because that made it natural that he should offer her tea. She nodded. Stewart himself drank bottled lemonade. "You remember once before I had a feeling of impending disaster?" said Tomi. "I feel it again." "Disaster?" She appealed to him seriously. "If there's another move against us there will be more reprisals. I mean that, Stewart," "You mean you'll back reprisals?" "I mean they'll be inevitable. It'll be disaster for both Adamites and Terrans. Do you know anything? Have you noticed anything?" He laughed, "Here?" IF "Something's going on, Stewart." "Can't you manage to make yourself call me John?" "Somehow, no. Elsewhere one of my siste.rs has married a Terran. She and another sister want to stay where they are." "You have radio communication faster than ours?" "I said I'd be frank, but I didn't say I'd tell you everything. I've half a mind to go to my father and try to talk him into pulling out. What do you say?" He allowed himself time to think. Hakstrott's effort might fail. It might end in bloody disaster. "Your prisoners," he said. "The people you took to your ship. They'd have to be returned." She nodded. "That's understood." Suddenly he thought of something he had missed so far. It took a great effort for him to ask casually, "How long would that take?" "The ship would be here in ten hours." Stewart thought swiftly. Even if the ship were summoned immediately -- in ten hours the station could be entirely in Terran hands, assuming everything went according to plan. However, all but three hundred of the complement of Fort Plato would be unconscious for many hours more. The fort could not be made a fort again, fully efficient and fully manned in ten hours. There would be a battle if the Adamite ship arrived. That made up his mind. The Adamite ship must not be summoned. Or the longer the summons was delayed the better. Fort Plato had to be allowed maximum time to become a Terran fort again. He did not think it would fall again with Tomi and Slent out of action. "No," he said. "I don't think you should run." She looked at him with all the old suspicion. It had never been more justified. He had to divert her somehow. "You say two of your sisters want to stay where they are. I know why you don't want to stay." "I'm listening." "You've met, properly met, only one Terran -- me. And we've never hit it off I don't suppose we ever will." "No." Her agreement was emphatic. Excellent, Stewart thought, though with a pang of regret. He had lost her, but he had caught her attention. "But it would be just as easy for you as for your sisters to find a Terran who would at least interest you." "How?" "Let me pick one for you. Go right now and find my brother." "Your brother? The checker?" "The former checker." "Why him?" He lay back on the pillows. "Brothers often don't get along too well. Sometimes their very similarities are to blame. Alan is like me in many ways. I have a feeling -- I always had -- that the differences are exactly the ones you'd like to find in me. "You never said anything about this before." "Naturally. I really care for you, Tomi. Or I could. Or I could have." She was bewildered and suspicious. "I've been lonely here. I admit it. But if you think I'm so lonely and sex-starved that I'll -- " "I'm not thinking of anything in particular except that Alan is just the kind of young Terran you should have been spending your time with -- and weren't. Want to find out about it?" She stood up. "Why not?" As she went Stewart breathed a sigh of relief. He had diverted her from her feeling of unease and her plan to summon the ship. And although events had forced him to arrange this particular meeting, it might work out. He and Alan had always gone for the same kind of girl. He sighed and tested his foot. It would do. He'd, be able to hobble about when necessary. T he tiny ship paused only briefly near Station #. Nick's crystal was on. Gilen's thought stabbed at Pariss, who was asleep. Far Slent was deliberately excluded. know. That thing you have hidden in your mind -- dulity. Gilen near, a strange mental crackling, Gilen with power of thought that made her a different person; Gilen, timid Gilen, roaring like a lion -- without Don, with somebody else. I can't -- know. Pariss, we've got it. The seed. It's on this ship. to steal it and get away with it? are in control here and they haven't promised to give it to us. But they've said they might. gain, Pariss. We're beaten. rendered to the Terrans? gaining. They have the seed and you know something important. If you tell me what was hidden I may have more to bargain with. She got it. And The Great Nicolas got it too. ' Y awns became frequent after supper. Stewart, anxiously IF waiting for news and still in bed, was reassured to hear that Adamite suspicion had not been aroused. As well as having a soporific effect, the drug worked as a tranquilizer. People merely yawned and said, "Roll on bedbed early, A few adults who were not creatures of habit did likewise. Tomi, in deep conversation with Alan Stewart, who had always thought her the most wonderful woman he had ever seen, did not notice drowsiness creeping up on her. Warning bells had entirely ceased ringing in her head, seduced into silence. At eight o'clock an Adamite colonel at last became suspicious and ordered a check on the air supply. When this proved negative he shrugged, stretched himself and lay down for a moment. Two minutes later he was snoring. The three hundred Terrans moved into action. The Adamites were gently disarmed, Stewart hobbled from the clinic, Hakstrott beside him. Hakstrott was triumphant. "Look at them," he said. "Sleeping beauties. Only it'll take more than a kiss to rouse them." Forty minutes of clearing up followed, some of it bloody. Seventy sleeping Adamites had to be overcome one by one, group by group. Since there were three hundred armed Terrans to do this, the outcome was never in doubt. But there were some thirty more deaths, Adamite and Terran, to add to the two massacres. Tomi and Alan Stewart were found together on the green unharmed, asleep. It was fitting, John Stewart thought, that Tomi, who had won Fort Plato on the green, should meet defeat there with Alan, now the victor. It was not quite nine o'clock when Stewart quietly opened Wil Slent's door and hobbled in. To make the situation clear he had a gun in his hand. "Good evening," he said pleasantly. "I'm informing you officially, Director Wil Slent, that Fort Plato is back in our hands." Wil took only seconds to make up his mind that this was no hoax. Hakstrott, coming into the room behind Stewart, was also armed. Wil leaped to his feet, stepped back against the wall, taking from his pocket a small clear object like a large teardrop. "Don't shoot," Wil told Hakwould be fatal for both of you." "You've summoned your ship?" "Yes. And I think you know, Stewart, that I cannot surrender? If I release this button -- which I am now holding down with my thumb -- the entire fort will be destroyed. It's a precaution I took from the beginning." Stewart, whose foot was sore, sat down comfortably. "What good would that do?" '"It would be a greater disaster for you than for us. Four hundred of us will die. Five thousand of you." "That's one way to look at it, I suppose." "Stewart, I know you. I want you to stay. Tell him to get out and shut the door behind him." Stewart looked over his shoulder. Hakstrott was unsteady on his feet and his left eye was twitching. "Better do as he says," Stewart said quietly. Hakstrott closed the door behind him. "Have you killed my men?" Slent asked. "Only those we couldn't help unharmed but helpless." "Tomi?" "Like the others. Sound asleep." "How did you do it?" "It doesn't matter. The important thing is that we've done it. Switch that thing off, Slent." "No. It gives me something to bargain with." "Not very much." "You know something of our ways. If I am defeated utterly -- I have nothing to live for. I might as well be dead." "So you would blow up Fort Plato and everyone in it, Terran and Adamite, just to take us all with you?" Wil smiled. "It wouldn't be selfish, Stewart. In a way it would be selfless. It would be less than utter defeat." "And Tomi?" "I have a most unusual advantage -- you see, there are four of me and there are four of Tomi. Although I have no wish to die and no wish for Tomi to die, releasing this button won't entirely kill either of us. You understand?" "I think I do. I suppose you hope to gain something by these rather melodramatic tactics. What?" "I ask you to let us withdraw." "All of you?" "Naturally. I promise that the ship, when it arrives, will merely take us off and return your prisoners." Stewart reflected. There was much in favor of Wil's proposal. An urgent knock sounded at the door. "Don't answer it," Wil said sharply. Stewart levered himself up. "They know the situation. We have the checkpoint -- remember? They're watching us all the time." Contact with the ship will be made if anything happens to me -- " "We all know that," said Stewart soothingly, hoping he was right. He opened the door. Seeing that Stewart intended to go out, Wil said, "Stay here. If you go I'll -- " "You won't," said Stewart. "Not while negotiations are still proceeding." He went out, shutting the door IF behind him. It might be better, he thought, if Wil did not hear what was said. It turned out he was right. He returned almost at once. "Most interesting," he said, sitting down again. What is?" "Stent, we have to wait for an hour. Perhaps a little more, but not much. I suggest you sit down. And make sure you don't release that button inadvertently." "What were you told?" "Let's just wait, shall we?" Wil gestured with the teardrop, but Stewart only smiled. "You won't do anything so silly as blow up the fort without knowing what's happening. That's one thing I do like about Adamites. One knows where one is with them." They waited silently. At last another tap came on the door. Stewart said, "Careful with that trigger finger. Director. It's easy for you tQ blow us up but difficult to put us together again." He opened the door. Four people came in and Wil did not release the button, for two of them were Gilen and Don. common ground at once. Both were egotists who liked to handle things without interference from above. In other circumstances they could have been antagonists, but now they agreed on the vital necessity of clearing up the sitthe pie. The Adamite ship left with Wil and Don on board but without Gilen or Tomi. Unlike Verne and Pariss who, when consulted telepathically, would not even consider returning to Eden, Gilen and Tomi thought long and hard before deciding to stay. It was grotesque, Wil said, that Gilen should be considering a cabaret act with The Great Nicolas. Gilen merely shrugged wouldn't allow it anyway. But Grumeyer's offer gave her a place among the Terrans, a springboard, an opportunity she had not been previously granted. Verne and Pariss had already found their futures. She was looking around for hers. Twenty-four hours earlier Tomi would certainly not have remained. But she, like Gilen, felt that her adventure was just starting. She had not fallen in love with Alan Stewart -- nevertheless, she was prepared to go on seeing him, prepared to meet Terrans other than those in Fort Plato, where she would always be hated because her father had ordered the execution of two hundred Terrans. She asked Miller, as a comparatively impartial Terran, how she was likely to be treated on Earth. He said sourly, "You're young and appropriately shaped. You'll be a dollars and marry eight times." What finally decided her was a strange new contact in which her father and uncles played no part. tion #: It's the only way. We've all got to stay, of course -- Tomi and Gilen have to take our word for it, Verne, but it's impossible to go back. Is Hugh doing all right? The poor guy hasn't the faintest idea of what's happening, but he's doing his best. Plato: Not very well, frankly, but it's amazing that it works at all. They're just a collection of people with trace telepathic potential? as a group working on a specific problem here, we're terrific. It's a question not just of tracing gnomes and hemmers, but trying to reach them. The Terrans themselves could have gone on for years and gotten nowhere, but with a little help from me -- and Sal before he left -- we've very nearly got an insoluble problem solved -- but that's my problem, not yours. Why did the Terrans give you what you wanted? In four words: it's nothing to them. understand them! Red must be the same to you as Hugh is to me. hardly. Yours is the great love of the galaxy -- ours is a working arrangement. Curious that Red and I should actually be married, while you and Hugh -- married. But we want everything cleared up first. their letting us have the seed -- well, first of all, they have plenty. Right, Gilen? Second, they don't mind our having it. Not in the least. coarse jokes about it. amite men must be the laziest in the galaxy if they don't take the trouble to father their own sons. know all about it. Tell me honestly why Gilen and I should stay. it all your lives if you don't. Because the Terrans are the real people. That's part of what I knew and you didn't. Who could have guessed the other part? IF Sal Slent was picked up by the small Adamite ship lying off Outward. It had not yet been revealed to the Terrans here that Verne was other than what she seemed. Another small ship took Far Slent and the rest of the Adamites, except Pariss, from Station #. When it had done so -- and not before -- Hugh showed Pariss the device which would have enabled him to retake the station and she understood at once why he had not wished to use it. It was a vibrator tuned to one specific encephalographic pattern, that of Hugh Suyang, an unpleasant device which would have made everyone else, Adamite or Terran, writhe in helpless agony while he personally secured the station. The experience would not have been fun for anyone and, since Pariss's mental sensitivity was immense, it might well have killed her. Orders from Fort Plato were that the ships should be allowed to leave the solar system unmolested. Miller and Stewart were correct in assuming that these orders, in the name of the officer commanding Fort Plato, could not be countermanded in time to make a difference. "It's quite amusing," said Miller, "that you and I should be induced to act generously and quixotically, Stewart. Of course we are right. Proper Adamite-Terran relations won't start for at least a generation -- obviously. When they do they have a chance of starting right. All the same, it's a laugh that we fixed it." IX I T was a surprise to Miller to find Margaret Heilbron on the panel. He found himself inclined to resent the situation. He was in a sense on trial. Putting him on one side of the table and Miss Heilbron on the other seemed rather like endorsing her part in the matter at the expense of his. John Stewart was the first speaker. Facing the seven men and four women on the panel, he began smoothly: "It has been suggested that the departure of the Adamites, except for the four girls, was rushed through by those on the spot with indecent haste. Protracted negotiations have been proposed. Let me say at once it was my conclusion -- and it still is -- that the sooner flash point was averted the better." Some of the six senior officers, three civilians and two observers listening to him nodded approvingly. Stewart was employing the courtroom tactics of which he was an acknowledged master. He did. not painstakingly establish that there had been considerable danger of an open battle; he had summarized that as a foregone conclusion. Unless somebody immediately challenged the phrase "flash point," the implications of his statement would be tacitly accepted. Stewart went on. "Dr. Miller, who even before this affair was recognized as the leading authority on Adamites, will explain their motivation in a moment. By the way, I don't believe you have been told that three of the four girls, Tomi, Pariss and. Gilen, are here and ready to give evidence if necessary." He knew perfectly well they had not been told. Stewart never without more than his arm up his sleeve. "We'll be very interested to hear from them," said the president of the court. "Three, you say?" "The fourth, Verne, is still on Outward. The people there have not been told of her background. Possibly it would make no difference to them. Verne is something of a national heroine there. "But for one thing, and you all know exactly what I mean, it would be possible to consider this whole affair in the light of a somewhat irregular state visit. Let's just for a moment look at it the other way around. If we had a chance to spy on the Adamites, would we have turned it down?" Nobody said anything until a retired air force man, taking a new angle, asked why, particularly, the Slents came to possess their peculiar talent. "The theory has been advanced that the reason may lie in the fact that the men are half and the girls are one-quarter Terran." This produced a considerable effect, which Stewart ignored, taking the opportunity to yield blandly to Miller.D ment,"said Miller, "while I go back ten thousand years." A choleric ex-major rumbled to the effect that he didn't want a lecture. Miller restrained himself, merely snapping, "If the matters I'm about to deal with were not extremely relevant I wouldn't waste your time and, more important, mine, by detailing them. To resume, if I may -- the Adamites know as little as we do about our history before Egyptian civilization. But what we know is this -- at one time in the life of the human race an advanced earlier technology depended far more on chemistry than does the present machine age. Effects now accomplished by mechanical means were achieved via chemistry. The ancients' secret of reaching the stars is lost, but it's a fair guess they employed chemical rather than mechanical means. "The religion of this early race, ancestors of both Adamites and Terrans, was fanatically against IF change in the physical makeup of humans. 'Made in God's image' has remained in our religion to this day. The Adamites evolved a way of preventing evolution, to put it unscientifically. The basis was chemical -- I can tell you no more than that. The effect was that the genes were stabilized. The colonists would not evolve physically. That's why after such a long gap, Adamites living on a world similar to but not identical with Earth have not adapted physically." No' one objected to his lecture. "Only fairly recently did they find that inability to change was a liability." Miss Heilbron interrupted. "Is it true that many Adamites are sterile?" Miller didn't like interruptions. "Yes," he said shortly. "And that's part of the reason they wanted a bank of Terran semen?" "Please, Miss Heilbron, let me tell this in my own way." "I just thought you were getting bogged down," she said helpfully. He ignored her and continued rapidly: "Sterility became a major problem only when they started colonizing worlds other than Eden. The environment of these other worlds demanded certain physical variations. The Adamites couldn't change. Fifty years ago the Adamites met Terrans. Terrans could adapt -- they couldn't. Terrans could throw up new types -- they I # B Frank Herbert retnms to the AnneworM of Arrakis for an epic of imperial intrifoe and baman ecolay-an epic that spans the nniverse. That's why we can tell yon where it ends -- We're nprinting fast, but your bookseller may be out of stock. Order this and other Frank Herbert books today: Frushme: n I (N#) #C I (S#) # (S#) # I (S#) # I I (#) # I I Name I j Address I I City State Zip j I Include list price plus a dime postage for j jach title. j Dept, mhk # Madison Ave., New York # couldn't. Terrans could breed freely on new and different worlds -- they couldn't. It was this knowledge of inferiority more than anything else that made the Adamites withdraw. "Some forty years ago a Terran ship in trouble made for Eden because it was the only populated world in reach. She crashed on Eden. Of the seven survivors only one recovered fully. Four died within a month and the other two were helpless cripples for the year or two they lasted. "The man who remained, James Robertson, was the second radio operator. Apparently he had an unhappy background on Earth, and welcomed life among the Adamites. He found no enmity. Since the Adamites then as now wanted to learn all they could about Earth, he became an important man. The question of returning him to Earth did not arise. He didn't want to go. He even took an Adamite name. He married an Adamite and had four children -- all at once -- and named them Wil, Far, Don and Sal." Nobody said a word. "What interested the Adamites would have been a small thing to us, but it was important to them. The babies did not have frozen genes. They could evolve. Their children could be adaptable. "The special sympathy between the Slent brothers did not arouse much interest -- twins and triplets among the Adamites possess this mutuality. But the advent of telepathy on Eden, in the persons of the four girls, was another matter. "This proved that , what Eden needed was Terran blood. Whether it had been intended or not, this was the key that unlocked the Adamites' genetic prison. It made up all the ground lost in hundreds of generations. Adamites are small. One change in us in the last few hundred years is an increase in the average height and weight. The Adamites -- " Miss Heilbron interrupted again. "Dr. Miller, the Adamites who led this visitation -- " "I know. The Slents are not small, for obvious reasons. And all the other personnel chosen for this operation were tall Adamites." "Robertson had no more children by his wife and his sons were childless except Wil. But the Adamites know as much as we do about artifical insemination and there are literally hundreds of men and women fathered by Robertson, of whom some have latent telepathic talent. Robertson is dead now. He died seven years ago, before the full extent of his gift to Eden was known. "And although the Slents have only Wil's four girls by natural means, they, too, have hundreds of offspring by AI. Some of these offspring also have telepathic talent." It was scarcely necessary for IF Miller to do any more explaining. The Adamite venture had had as its main object the capture of Terran seed. The four girls, obviously highly talented, had been expected to become pregnant, but what mattered even more was the capture of the seed of uncounted Terrans. This could unlock the whole Adamite race. The Adamites, desperately needing the seed, had never imagined asking for it. They had assumed they must steal it, meanwhile plotting to bypass a space war. T he atmosphere at an equivalent meeting far, far away was initially less friendly. General Print was still alive. Early in the proceedings, however, he said he was sorry he had not died before, he had to witness the return of four defeated Adamite Directors without the most valuable section of their force -- their own daughters and nieces. Wil said with the quiet dignity he had acquired, "My daughters were placed in command. General. You acquiesced in their being placed in command. I make no excuses -- but you cannot blame any of us here that they chose to remain." "No," the general admitted. "But you suffered defeat. You admit as much. The Terrans triumphed in all four echelons." "There," said Sal Slent, "you are not merely unfair but quite wrong. General. We have no reason to suppose that we should ever have been detected on Outward as Adamites. Verne's record there has been one of continuous success in what she set out to do." "At the Terran General Purposes Station," said Far Slent, "Suyang could have retaken his command from the beginning. Nor could we have known this, since he is a telepath and probing him before the occupation began would Kave alerted him and made the operation impossible." General Print, frowning, said, "I do not like this new attitude. You seek to evade resp:nsibility. First you blame the four girls, saying they were in command, not you. Then you excuse yourselves. In my day an Adamite officer stood or fell by his achievement." "This, we learned among the Terrans, is wrong," said Wil. "Certain of their national armies at one time had similar beliefs. The consequence of such an attitude is that a general cannot gamble. But if he meets an enemy who mil gamble, who can afford to gamble, in the end he must be beaten." The general had to fight for selfcontrol. "What are you trying to tell me?" "That if we failed, we failed as Adamite Directors, steeped in the tradition of the Adamite Navy. And if the ruling is that we should be executed, I tell you now what I shall say when given my final opportunity to speak -- that if you defeated." "That is your considered opinion?" "It is the opinion of all of us." The other three nodded. "It will be given due weight." The meeting went on for a long time. Old General Print became very tired. But he and the other officers had to admit finally that the new resilience, the new toughness of the four officers before them bore out all they claimed. They were not the same men who had started on the operation. first time she had a bitter quarrel with Hugh -- who had, in a mad moment, chased a secretary because Pariss was pregnant again and capricious. They had never spoken bitterly to each other and were shocked by what each said. The reconciliation was a passionate relief to both of them. But as she found Hugh, her Hugh, her nearly perfect Hugh, apologetically making up to her, freely and sincerely acknowledging that she was the one who counted, not merely in their marriage but as a person. Pariss suddenly said, "We are the real people!" "I beg your pardon?" said Hugh politely. "We are the real people!" "Yes, that's what I thought you said. What does it mean? You and I? You and I and little Will? You and I and -- " "You're out of it, darling. I'm sorry, but it's true. You're only a Terran, and a passable, though not remarkable, telepath." "What do you mean, not remarkable? My new rating -- " "Yes, darling. I love you -- or I wouldn't have cared if that little bitch had taken you and eaten you. In many ways you're most remarkable. You're wonderful. But we are the people who count, all the same. The Adamite-Terrans. The offspring of two great races. The four of us. Verne and Red practically run Outward. You're a colonel now and you know very well you'd never have made it at your age if you hadn't married me. and Gilen is so rich she'll be able to do anything she wants whenever she finds out what it is -- " Hugh kissed her. "Now before I beat you," he said "get this straight. You're half right. But only half You and your sisters are fabulous -- but tell me, where would Verne be without Red? Gilen without Nick or some other link man? Tomi without Alan? You without -- " "Exactly, darling!" "But you said -- " "Language is a poor way to communicate if you don't need it." She sighed. "Real people are those who need each other. You know what I mean."  IF His kind had always killad by night and diad by day    but a new dawn was at hand! H e came awake suddenly. His muscles were tensed, he was growling, but his eyes and brain were overwhelmed. Danger... stimulus... The light flared around him. His head pounded with sensation. The light -- the light! It couldn't be shaken. He was on his feet, wincing. The light was blinding, teasing... a madcap confusion. With practiced deliberation he turned, sought the deepest recess of his burrow. As a last alternative he tried to hide his eyes in the fur of his tail, shutting them tightly. His eyelids quivered with the exertion, but the light was a red glow that seared into his brain. Dazzled and frustrated he leaped to the wall, lashed out with his claws and dug a hole for his head and muzzle. And a breathing passage. Ramming his head inside he managed to tame the torture of the light enough to feel he could return to sleep. He was yet a young, unmated male and therefore of low status. His burrow, accordingly, joined the main tunnel close to the en trance. He had no fear of the dayhunters. They rarely would dare to venture into the tunnel. Besides, he had killed many during his night hunts. Even with light blasting into his burrow he was sure he could fight well enough to save himself. No, the trouble with his burrow was that if he awakened during the day the light would be enough to madden him. His fur, ruffled by his tensed skin, settled slowly. His breathing slowed. His eyelids relaxed. The light that remained in his eyes was enough like starlight to keep it from bothering him. Sleep closed in. The thoughts dissolved and drifted off. He awoke. But this time his taut muscles did not twitch against sudden, instinctively sensed danger. The faint light that reached him was that of the stars, almost deepened out of existence. He paused for several minutes, stretching, feigning, recoordinating his mind and body. He felt for the umpteenth time that state of health, readiness and strength. He trotted out of his burrow and down the tunnel, sensing his way, heading towards the starshine. Others were already out, wandering about the entrance, sniffing and scanning the bushes for signs of prey. He headed directly out into the growth, ducking under branches, trotting through the soft humus. His eyes were wide and consciously alert. A dayhunter asleep or concealed in the branches of a bush or a busheater trundling across the ground -- either would be fine tonight. He was exactly hungry enough to be satisfied with the amount of food they offered. A scent shocked him into a run. A dash under a branch, a rapid turn, a sight, pursuit and spring, a biting and a clawing -- and the busheater, blood welling from a dozen wounds, was his. Calming from the dash, he realized that he had just caught his meal. Starting at the flank of the animal he began to snap and tear at the moist, warm meat. When he had taken all he required he lay down a short distance from the carcass and confidently began to lick the last remnants of blood from his paws. He had made a lucky and easy kill and IF wondered what he might do for the remainder of the night. After some time to digest his meal he started at a leisurely pace through the brush. The stars overpainful to look at still attracted his attention and awe. The sky was so full of them it would be nearly impossible to fit any more in. They lighted things softly, evenly, much more benevorays that came from something unthinkably bright during the day. A new scent caught his attention. A female. Just her scent. An unaccompanied, unmated female. He trotted off in her direction. His first sight of her told him she was healthy. The starlight sheened on her fur. Her body was taut, trim. Her responses were excellent -- she whirled the instant she detected his approach. He continued his approach, but slowed. He got quite close to her before she jerked back nervously. He stopped. She turned to walk off. He leaped toward her. She whirled to defend and he shoved her muzzle to one side with his. The taunt angered her. He walked lightly around her, continuing to tease her with feints. Finally in infuriated confusion she sprang at him. He rolled over to accept. She landed, then bounded away in indignation. He let her go, confident of having performed well. The rest of the night was spent in a bright stroll and a few aborted darts after prey. All the while the stars flashed overhead. As the sky grew still brighter he headed for the tunnel. He knew that soon the light would become intolerable and that the dayhunters would be able to kill. Following his sense and the sound of the others at the tunnel entrance, he made his way back without difficulty and quickly ducked into the comfortable dimness of the tunnel. He did not stop to socialize near the entrance but continued toward his interior. He thought once he scented the female, but being unsure and feeling a bit hungry from having eaten so early, he decided not to bother to investigate. He ducked into his burrow and, taking care to shield his eyes from the coming light, lay down to sleep. of dayshine were in the tunnel as he awoke. The exotic sparks of color were dazzling, but not really bright enough to be offensive. Fascinated, he moved out into the tunnel. The glaring color there was pected. He stood painfully mesmerized by the flaring purple. Unable to stand the light he stumbled back, missed the entrance to his burrow, blinded as he was. He continued down until a few barely perceptible turns in the tunnel shielded him from the light. He paused, and then walked a little farther before stopping to regain his eyesight and wait for the last of the daylight to fade. He was considering moving back up into the now vanishing light when he was challenged. The growl came from a male of higher status than he, who obviously had no sympathy for those who tried to borrow the privileges of rank. Still, he knew his opponent could not be fully awake or accustomed to the light. Making the most of his advantage he replied with a vigorous and confusing barrage of threats and feints. His opponent became vicious, pouncing, bounding, lashing out, all ineffectively. Finally, satisfied at his display of defense, he retreated at a fast trot toward the starlight. He stopped at the entrance to look around and scent the wind and listen -- most carefully. A half-acknowledged hope was let go and he set off into the brush, the first of the night's hunters. Prey was elusive that night and for several hours all he seemed capable of doing was sight an animal, then lose it. He did not make his kill until later on in the night. when he caught a day hunter who had made the mistake of eating too well and concealing itself too poorly. It's throat torn open, it died slowly, its jaw convulsing and its teeth flashing in the starshine. He was hungry and only by carefully stripping the body of all its flesh did he manage to satisfy himself. After relaxing a while he left the carcass and tried scenting the air again. He followed up a few chances but didn't luck out. The female was not around -- or at least not where he could find her. He returned to the tunnel early and spent a good deal of time around the entrance. But finally he decided the effort was useless and turned in for the coming day. had already fallen and he knew he had missed his best chance. So he took his time in preparing to leave the tunnel. Once out he settled down to the real business of hunting and put in a substantially better performance than he had managed the night before. He spent the night in a pretty purposeful manner, first hunting, then following his meal with plenty of exercise and even some rough play with another male of about his status. Abruptly his senses alerted him to the female. He dropped all preIF tense in an instant. He was able to trace the scent to her in a matter of minutes. She had been having a hard night of it and was still tracking prey when he found her. He stayed behind and to one side of her as she moved along -- and she ignored him. For many minutes he strained every sense in order to spot some prey. He caught the outline of an animal through a dense clump of bushes and scrambled off after it. One hurried glance behind him showed that she had joined the pursuit. The animal was particularly fast and evasive, but he was in no mood to be shaken now and with a furious effort at speed he overtook his victim and brought it down at a full run. The female arrived moments later. She hesitated a short distance away, trying to decide whether simply to take the meal, to threaten for it or walk off. She finally moved toward the kill and, after receiving some assurance, began to eat. She ate slowly and with an air of uncertainty, occasionally looking up at him before continuing. All the time he lay nearby waiting for her to finish. Finally deciding she had taken all she wanted she looked up at him again. He did nothing. She came over and lay down next to him to digest her meal. A S HE lay in his burrow he tried to remember what they had done. He remembered walking -- yes, walking. They had continued walking. Why? Through the starshine and the brush. They had walked all night. And then at the tunnel entrance -- even though the first traces of daylight were showing he had wanted to stay there with her. She had not sensed his wish or had seemed not to. She went right in. But he had wanted to stay out there, even as the light was growing more and more intense. He could not make up his mind not to let it bother him, so he simply decided to get to sleep -- and quickly before the day became too bright. H e was surprised to find her waiting for him at the entrance that night. It was something he had not expected. Her being there felt warm to him, though. Already they were growing close. She seemed to feel safe near him. He felt her added confidence in him and it worried him a bit. They moved quietly and slowly through the night. They did so for love of quiet, not stealth. He thought once that they should really be hunting. They would need something to eat. But she seemed to in love with the quiet and the warmth between them for hunting. There was no hunger. He nuzzled her. There was no hunger. He felt none until he and she were back at the tunnel entrance, with the threat of day in the skies. Then he felt it as an anguish. She headed on into the tunnel, but he had to stop. A whine escaped him. She turned to look at him -- something in her answered and sympathized, She almost started back to him. But faced with the growing light she turned away again and walked slowly down. Left on his own, he felt drained. His anguish became a lonely remorse. He stumbled into the tunnel and entered his burrow. There was some small comfort in the darkness he lay dovvn fn. And sleep was always kindly. D arkness? Night again. Not long had it been night, but the light was starlight and hunters were about. He felt he had slept well and that he was very, very hungry. He met her as she was coming from the deeper portions of the tunnel and they continued together out into the open. They hunted in a bright but purposeful fashion that night, bringing down two kills and sharing each of them. They played gently, affectionately most of the rest of the night. She became drowsy and he let her rest while he preened her fur. This time as they went back toward the tunnel she acted rather droopy and paused in the entrance with him. She lay down. For an instant lie was horrified. But his fears didn't mean much now. He lay down with her. The game started with small, tentative pawings. Licks followed. Then came nibbles. A nip. More vigorous movements. Intense, excited. The light was growing brighter. Objects glared into their consciousnesses. The light sparkled on their furs, gleamed in enraptured eyes, heightening their excitement and intensifying their growing frenzy. The brilliant colors of the beginning day surrounded them and added to the violence besieging their bodies and brains. They struggled for sensation, receiving it in contacts, pawings, nips, nuzzles, pressures, contractions, flexings. Her assault was no less vigorous than his -- sometimes she bit him hard enough to make him yelp. blinding, too maddening to see by -- sanity was out of the question. They struggled and thrashed in all all-enveloping sea of unbearable feeling. An incredible pain in his thigh, another in his shoulder -- in his back with the full light blazing right through his brain! Claws -- teeth! He lashed with his legs and tried to bite back at his attackers. Pain -- light! He scramIF bled to his feet and felt claws and teeth trying to bring him down again. Dragging his attackers with him he headed toward what must be the deeper end of the tunnel. His body seemed solely devoted to registering pain. It throbbed with it. Never had he felt so gritty and disabled, so harassed by pain... His attackers were gone. He could only dimly realize it and then the thought was drowned in a flood of agony in his body, in his brain, in his eyes -- his ears. In his ears was what he didn't want to hear, what he wished the pain -- this fantastic pain -- would drown out. But he heard it again and again -- the piteous death screams, the souless noises of the carnivores... A wakening was a fitful thing -- he avoided it as much as possible. The pain was dulled only by monotony. The throbbing had not ceased. No, he could not come fully awake. He only reached the borderline of awareness. And it was intolerable. The only horror that was gone was the light. The screams the smell of open blood and the helplessness, the sense of infirmity that bordered on death -- these stayed with him. some time awake and not insane with pain, it seemed he had spent his entire life in agony. He became aware that he was being fed and that this burrow was larger and darker than any he had been in even as a pup. Others were here, a few healthy -- but more like himself, torn open, with dried blood on their wounds and fur. And one who thrashed in agony almost continuously for days, sleeping only in exhaustion, until he died. Mated pairs were here, some with very minor wounds. Most acted as if they had been through all this before. It may have been days before a realization of the significance of all he was experiencing first struck him -- the times when he could think were few. He was still in great pain and when not crying and whining in agony he had other things to cry and whine for. His mind was not to be used because there were too many things it could remember... But still at some time he thought about the mates and their wounds -- and his wounds and her -- and of screams. He knew all about it now. He had learned all about why mates had so many scars. He knew where the injured came from and where they went and why the elders preferred to hunt dayhunters. It had nearly cost him his life to find out. Had it cost him even more dearly. Many had found out this way. Many probably never found out. How many wouldn't? It was a horrible, terrible trick, this threat that hung over his kind. His existence was now to be valued. It was a long time before he even thought of getting up. And when he tried, the cracking of dried blood, the flexing of injured muscles and the splitting of unhealed wounds sent him down screaming in wretched agony. He resigned himself to spending the rest of his life where he lay in constant pain and on the brink of agony. Finally one of the healthy males started to shove him, to force him to his feet. His pain was now bearable. He even mustered a show of defense. But he shuffled away from his opponent soon enough. He fell once and felt he should not get up again. But the prospect of returning ability was too great. He managed to get to his feet again. He worked his way into the main tunnel and stood there. He couldn't hunt. He couldn't live. He turned and reentered the burrow. Cautiously he lay down again. He was not disturbed. But he would get up tomorrow and the next day. And perhaps he would again see the light of the stars. H e continued to get up and slowly regained his abilities. First he merely walked around, but soon he was helping the healthy ones in their caring for the injured. He spent a great deal of time in that capacity. On one occasion he helped to drag one who had ceased to suffer back out into the starshine. The task tempered his joy at seeing the stars. They would only shed their benevolent light so long before they were overwhelmed by the violence of the day. And drawn to that violence, mates would die. During his last nights at the communal burrow he sometimes ventured out into the starshine in efforts to regain some of his long lost skill at hunting. On one such night he accidentally roused and killed a dayhunter and decided to return to his own burrow. His former burrow was occupied and he knew better than to challenge the healthy young thief. He moved on down the tunnel. Somewhere along the line he noticed a burrow that was unoccupied. He could guess why. He moved in and was not challenged. Apparently his wounds had gained him enough status to allow him to fit comfortably into a more prestigious neighborhood. But it took many nights of hunting before he felt he had regained his old capabilities. H e had hunted dayhunters exclusively recently -- but this IF night was still going to be different. His careful scrutiny of the bushes was prodded by more than hunger. When he found one finally, leaped, grabbed it in his teeth and dragged it to the ground, he went about the deliberate than normal. The glare in his eyes was not to be found on the hunter of food. Even so, it was not without several hesitations that he left his victim for a search of his next kill of the evening. He had killed many more before he finally ate, rested and headed back to the tunnel. He trotted through the night with new satisfaction. He had killed only a small fraction of the dayhunters in the area, but a few nights like this one would serve more than to help satisfy his thirst for vengeance. The stars were bright all over the sky and pain had not bothered him all night. He was feeling better than he had in a long time. He moved under the bushes with little care for the hunters that undoubtably slept somewhere among them. He felt almost as ecstatic as he had felt as a pup. He was sure now he could solve a problem that had stumped his peers all their lives -- and others before them. He stopped so suddenly that he nearly stumbled. The faint scents on the breeze had shocked, alarmed and ruined him in an instant. He loped off to investigate. doubting for the first time a sense that had never failed him. But there it was, a pup standing over a dayhunter's carcass, one far too large for it to have killed. There was no doubt in his mind, the pup had found one of his earlier kills and made a meal of it. He needed no other proof to know his other kills had bn similarly found and used. He did not even tether to drive the pup away -- it would simply return after he left. It would not kill a dayhunter for itself that night. He lay awake as the day came on. But now it was not the light that kept him from sleep -- the light was kinder here, more like starshine, than it had been in his old burrow. No, it was a churning, an eating away in the deeps of his body that caused his wakefulness. He knew no confidence now -- only a cruel deflation of his ego. This danger could not be fought -- the threat was not in teeth or muscles. It was abstract, confusing, defying and eluding all attack. He felt helpless. N ights followed and days little noticed between them. and eating. Time laboriously wasted, things tediously unnoticed. Then a night of sudden horror. He fell, tumbling, felt an impact, rolled and slid to a stop. His alarmwas quickly mastered -- where was he? In some deep place. He saw a rim above him, an unnatural horizon that cramped the stars above it. The ground smelled moist and fresh. He was in a burrow of some sort, something that had been dug out of the ground. It was unlike any of the burrows he had known. This place was deep without being covered -- it had no branching tunnels or burrows. He had come into it by falling. Out would be by leaping or climbing. He had never seen it before, or anything like it. It was newly here, it was near enough to the tunnel for him to have found it long ago had it been here before. But that it was didn't surprise him. Many things changed in storms. Bushes were torn apart. The ground became soft and stank. There had been a storm during the last day. He had been awakened by it and had spent a while listening to it and remembering another storm he had heard quite some time before. Storms caused many things. This one had caused some strange things. It had killed and knocked down one of the high bushes. He had been looking at it, walking around it. It was odd to see a high bush on the ground -- they looked so much bigger than when they were standing. Then he had fallen. His shock was gone now and, sensing this place to be as friendly as any burrow he had ever been in, he set about. looking it over. His curiosity led him into a minute study of the space around him. It was not until he knew it as well as any of the area above that he began to amuse himself by digging into the wall of the pit. He dug casually and the hole he produced slowly began to take on the shape of a burrow. Even before he had finished it had a narrow entrance as long as his body and enough room beyond it for him to turn around easily. He had never dug a burrow before, probably because he had never had a space to dig one, but he felt nothing unusual in doing so now. The burrow was becoming quite roomy when he noticed that it was more brightly lit than it had been. He turned towards the entrance and was struck by the intensity of the light coming in. Already it was too bright to see his way out of the pit. The dayhunters would be out soon. Only the security of his being underground kept him from being unnerved. Despite the uncomfortable light he stayed facing the entrance, prepared to give a determined defense against any dayhunter who would venture in. For a long while there were no dayhunters. The light grew maddening, but his tolerence of it was fortified by his instinct to survive. Memories of days past served only to tighten his muscles. There -- there was a dayhunter -- two -- more. The scents were clear -- a small pack was above. They IF had scented him, the danger was feverishly real. They drew no nearer -- they shifted up the wind and down the wind. They were confused. His eyelids were down tightly now -- he could no longer hope to see. Still the light seared through them in a raging red madness. Defending would be almost impossible. If he opened his eyes the light would blast right through his mind. He heard a scrabbling and caught a new scent. A dayhunter was in the pit. No sooner had he realized this than he heard piping cries of terror and scrambling on the walls of the pit. For a long while they continued, their frenzy never dimishing. Finally they ceased and the scent was more distant. He was safe here. The dayhunters were terrified of the pit. He grasped the fact desperately, whirled to bury his face and agonized eyes in the wall of the burrow. He was safe here -- the day would pass and he would survive. The dayhunters were afraid of the pit, of the tunnel, of being below ground. He was safe here. The day wore on and he managed to sleep through some of it. The night came. He awoke and left the pit. He found and dragged down a dayhunter and ate a needed meal. The he returned to the pit and spent the rest of the night enlarging the burrow, lengthening it and curving the length back on itself. Long before day threatened he left the pit to return to the tunnel and his own burrow. fore he woke again. It took him quite a while to adjust to the shift in time caused by his oversleeping. He missed the group he normally saw at the entrance -- they had long since left on the night's hunt. The sky was ahead of his reckoning. The busheaters were more active than his sense told him they should be. He made an easy kill of one he surprised. It was the first he had eaten in a long while. It didn't satisfy him completely, but he decided not to do any more hunting just yet. He left the carcass and strolled out under the starshine. The omens were pleasant this night and he noted he was letting his guard relax. Not since he had healed had he felt so glad of the stars. His body no longer reminded him of its infirmities. He sensed again its health and potential. There was a lightness in him that he had not felt in a long while. He came to an open spot he had known and loved during other nights. Here the stars could be seen as a vast coverage of sky. Here he could see dapplings and vapors and bursts that stood ever still in the pattern of the moving night. Coltextures, all beautiful to look at, but always a bit painful, always stimulating, as something too wondrous to bear. Dazzled, he lowered his eyes. It was dangerous to stare too long at the stars -- his eyes were full of the ghosts of them. Only in after some minutes did he recover his sight. Such dangers were not to be lightly accepted. Studying the night was not something to be done once the stars were known. His pleasure in the moment was destroyed. Somber movings were in him as he left the clearing behind. Dangers were ever-present and always most intensely to be guarded against in moments of wonder. It had always been so. Not in his time, nor perhaps even in his parent's time had anyone beheld beauty without subjecting himself to danger. But not until this night had he completely realized the morbid vastness of this truth. It was immune to any effort to alter it. The mind of the hunter withdrew uncertainly from something that threatened from everywhere. From the stars that shined overhead, the leaves around him and the ground under his feet. He moved on, trailing his depression behind him. He noted the scent of a female at first without feeling. Hunger knawed at him. He felt disheveled and sightsore. Realities he could not comprehend had crushed his joys from every side. He stopped. The air moved quietly about him, the brush whispered around him. They had always done so, but he had to stand still to know them. The scent of a female blended with them, became part of the harmonious calm. It soothed him. The dark movings in his mind were lessened. The female emerged from the brush ahead of him, moving slowly, cautiously. She stopped and looked him over. She bore scars on her hind flank but they were well healed. He thought he saw sorrow in her eyes, a helpless hope of comfort. He wanted her to turn and walk away. There was something terrifying in her calmness -- an innocence that was not born of ignorance. She moved evenly, and slowly while he stood still trying to deny a building fear that grew as she came pleadingly close. She stood uncertain now, worried. In a moment she would be afraid. He moved forward and nuzzled her. brimming with light and confidence, of hope reconceived. He had never hoped for a night such as this, he could never have imagined the joy he suddenly knew as wonderfully real. They played under the stars like pups, almost delirious at their release. The world had taken on a newness. Innocence was everywhere. She was kind and joyful. If she grew passionate it was in thankfulIF ness for the end of a long and craven denial. Such things as she had known she had not been meant to have experienced. But that she had suffered endeared her more to him. They felt a silent sharing of things long known. At last they rested, warm in the brightness of starnight. T he day was coming. With it returned the urgency, the fear of the coming light. He knew again the anguish of needing and saw it reflected in her. The light would be growing soon and they delayed. There was urgency, danger. Instincts howled in opposition and none could be ignored. The hunter's mind snapped to certainty. He scrambled into a run and, with one look to make sure she followed, doubled his speed to that of a full pursuit. The light was growing. They spent that day in his burrow in the pit -- and many days thereafter. She had hesitated when he had leaped into the pit. But she had followed. She had trembled as the day grew, flooding the inside of the She whimpered in fright when the dayhunters came. She had never been so intensely aware of danger, but she stayed with him. She drew on his composure. The danger was outside, all too real, but here she was safe. He made her feel safe. She wanted to feel safe. And where the burrow doubled back on itself he made her feel warm, and she slept. He emerged from the burrow into the night with a waking joy. There had been a great change in the world. They hunted that night with a vibrant sense of being alive neither had known before. H OW the idea spread can never be completely ascertained. The pit was near the tunnel, and in time became well known. The burrow was not overlooked either and more than once he had to chase out a casual trespasser. But how anyone realized the purpose of the pit-burrow is unknown. But in time another couple joined them in the pit. Neither couple used their burrows as permanent hoities -- they were still a bit too bright for comfortable sleeping. Nonetheless, they used them often. And if few adults were able to understand the pit-burrows, the pups learned quickly. Pups there were. They grew strong and healthy and only a few died. At night they would play in the pit or come hunting. The pups were often amusing in their attempts at the business of hunting, occasionally exasperating, but every so often they surprised him. They would cause him to wonder if he had grown up so fast. And he knew nights when he would look about the pit and see that there was room left to fit another burrow. A few adult mates, a few pups who were no longer pups had joined them there. Some had even made their permanent homes in the pit, though how they could sleep well in the daylight was beyond him. He and his mate had many pups, many beautiful nights, many warm days. He grew older than many and lived to help build the second pit. On one pleasant night he went hunting alone, leaving pups, mate and friends for the beauty of a solitary night, the love of the stars. He spent a long time in wandering, scenting, enjoying the night. Such things had always promised him joy -- now they gave more than ever. He felt that things had changed. Perhaps there was more beauty in the world -- or less danger. He noted a scent and traced it with a skill sharpened by long practice. He approached the bush quietly, stopped and searched it carefully. The dayhunter was well concealed and dozing soundly. He moved cautiously to the base of the bush. He waited quietly, judging how best to make his leap. Then moving a bit to one side and tensing, he leaped, grabbed the dayhunter by a hind leg and dragged it down. The dayhunter landed on top of him, claws and teeth ripping first air, then flesh. He struggled to regain his advantage and lost. tact with him. You can probably barely begin to realize the grief I felt to see him die like any other member of his race. I knew him intimately, though he never knew me or suspected that he was being studied. In the years I spent on Rigel IV I had made many contacts, known many alien minds, but his was the one I learned the greatest respect for. In the history of every intelligent species there are but a few of his kind, each a transition point in the events that determine success or failure of a life form. When I arrived on Rigel the nightfox colony was failing. I concerned myself with studying the natural decline of a species. But before I left the pit-dwellers were established and growing at a healthy rate and I had witnessed -- and recorded for the first time -- a major behavioral change in an animal community in its natural state. Without my help or that of any other life form he had been able to extract hope for his race from a whim of chance. It was luck beyond reasoning that our minds ever met. I can only feel grateful to have known him so well, to have shared the mind of a primary genius.  IF Cofi couragm v#r link disimilar organisms in symbiosis? his woman. He sat up from the blankets of marsh cotton, stretching his wings above his head until they touched the low ceiling of woven reeds. "The skyhunter is dying," she said. "We must leave." His heart twisted. "Dying? Are you sure?" "See for yourself." She turned to gather their meager possessions in her thin arms. He left their cabin and knew the truth of her words even before he had reached the forward opening. He felt the skyhunter's fading life in the uneasy quivering that shook the wood framework of the gondola. He cursed. Anger flared, turning to rage, fading to a sinking feeling of impotence. A pale yellow tentacle curled through the opening. The amber eye at its tip regarded him. "Ah, my ponderous friend. What is the matter?" Schadow asked soothingly. The tentacle wrapped about his waist, reassuring, sad. On reaching the opening, he looked out and up. The hydrogenfilled balloon-bladder that kept the skyhunter airbore had turned from a healthy crimson to a dusky brown, run with streaks of copper. The airpaddles were clenched as if in pain. The cartilage ribs to which the framework of the gondola was fastened sagged, hardly capable of holding it or the hundred and seven human members of the Seacliff Clan. The sixty green and crimson fishing tentacles hung lifeless toward the glittering sea a halMcilometer below. The single foretentacle that had greeted him snaked away and moved listlessly in the air. He wanted to say something, to reassure the animal, the living dirigible that had been his home and friend and protector all his life, to let his calm voice -- "Schadow." He turned, recognized the old man who stood behind him. "Grandfather?" "There is little time. You must move fast." "And you?" "You know my duty. We have lived as x)ne, the skybeast and I -- we will die as one. Yon are now Clan Elder. You know what you must do." Schadow nodded. For a moment they clasped hands, Schadow studying the patriarch's tired, rawhide face. Then he went back to his cabin. Behind him. Grandfather jumped into the air and fluttered up to the head of the skyhunter., It tried to push him away but the ancient one found power in his wings and stayed close, patting the head and talking softly of yesteryear. the aft opening and when he was sure that he had had missed no one, ordered his people into the sky. One by one they jumped, arms tightly grasping children or belongings. Their wings flapped until they hit an upcurrent -- then they glided into formation, armed men taking the vulnerable positions. Last to leave was Schadow. He threw himself from the gondola, falling toward the distant water, stretched his wings, flew. Together, silent, they headed toward the land until Schadow judged they had reached a safe distance. He looked back at the skyhunter. The bladder was now almost totally copper. The three hydrogen bags were scarcely visible through the once transparent hide. As the wind pivoted the derelict sky beast Schadow saw Grandfather flying close to its head. He saw the creature give one last attempt to push the old man away with its tentacle, saw it fail, saw them grasp one another one last time, enemies once, now brothers. "It's going to suicide," said one warrior. Before he had spoken the last word a spark flared in the depths of the bladder. The skyhunter was enveloped in a savage burst of fire that reflected softly off the wispy clouds above and more fiercely off the sea below. Man, beast and gondola became a single inferno that twisted in the air and tumbled into the waves. The thunder struck at the Seacliff Clan, enveloped and passed it. For a few moments the flyers IF were given increased lift. They took advantage of it and glided in silence toward the granite shore. A pack of winged amphibians, like tiny pale dragons, soared out from the cliffs to meet them, screaming their challenge and bravado, voicing them ail the louder when they were ignored. 'Where do we go now?" asked his woman as Schadow glided in next to her. "Give me my harness," he said,partly answering her query. He took the harness of leather straps and silver buckles and dressed himself in midair, fitting the fastenings around his chest and placing the scabbard along his spine. He pulled out the sword of strong white bone and tested its edges, honed over the years to razor sharpness. "You must go to Starport," he called to his people. "Wait there for five days. If I have not returned by that time you will know that I have failed to tame a skyhunter and that you must choose a new Clan Elder from among you." He said nothing more. Nothing else was left to say. They flew away, a few lifting their spirits from the depths of the tragedy enough to wish him luck. He watched them until they seemed no larger than insects against the brightening blue of the post-dawn horizon. Then he banked, caught the thermal that swept up from the coastal cliffs. dropped into an easy glide to conserve his energy for the ordeal ahead. T hey had called the colony world Pishkun, from an ancient Sioux word that meant cliff, for indeed it was a land of cliffs as well as rift valleys, crevices and faults -- a granite world of eternal upheaval where the thunder of earthquakes was as common as the roar of the ocean. When the colonists had first reached and named Pishkun they had taken its unfriendly nature as a challenge. trated dreams that had begun when early man had First looked at the eagle and felt envy, Ornithanthropus had Finally been born, for only in the air could life be sustained with any permanency on this world. Aesthetics had played a greater part in the design of the birdfolk than functional engineering. The wings had been placed at the shoulder blades and were powered by a complex system of muscles that started at the keel-like breastbone, joined the trapezius and ran up the lower part of each wing. The bones were hollow for lightness and the lower eyelids, which were transparent, could cover the eyes to protect them from windblast. To a basicform human, the birdfolk were the symbol of beauty in motion. Schadow, who was of the fiftieth generation of his kind, cared little for the history of his people. He knew it -- the basicforms at Starport had told it to him when he had visited that antigrav trading station in his adolescence -- but he had found the story only of peripheral interest. Only life, health, the sky, his woman and the skyhunter he must tame meant anything to him. The day passed into early afternoon without tiring him as he skimmed along the updrafts and climbed for a wider view. Over the sea almost a kilometer away he saw a young skyhunter, shining like a blood jewel over the silverstreaked greeness of the. waves. But it was already fishing. It would be too strong for him to outlast. He looked inland. The nostrils of his knife-blade nose flared. The muscles in his sunken cheeks tightened like braided rawhide. His eyes slitted and the greasy black hair lifted from his scalp. Unsteadily he moved the sword in his hands. What he saw was barely a dot on the horizon but every instinct in him identified it. It was a skyhunter heading for the sea and therefore hungry, therefore weakened. For a scant moment he debated falling toward the land and foraging for something to eat, then tossed the idea aside. The beast would know by his smell whether or not he had a full belly and it had best sense that he was as hungry as it, unarmed except for the sword, naked except for the harness -- equal with it in all respects including courage. H e studied every facet of the land and air around him. The ground was a tumbled mess of bare rock, strewn boulders, cascades, bogs and patches of brown and green where simple land plants had eked out a living despite the endless assaults upon them by the planet's ever-changing crust. He looked away from the tortured land. With a sense ingrained into him through generations of running upon the winds he looked at the air mass around him and mapped every current in his mind. He saw the draft that swept up from the sea cliffs below him like a sunwarmed glass curtain to touch the inversion layer four kilometers above; saw a large thermal off to his right, marked where it started on the ground near a dust devil, a huge cylinder of moving bubbles of heated air that rose to reach the cumulus clouds that dotted the sky; saw a second curtain-like current rise from cjiffs of red granite to his left, but this one bent and rushed dangerously across the jagged top; saw the bulk of dead air that sat ahead of him, shimmering now and then in the form of a seaward breeze. He couldn't have picked a betIF ter place to meet the skybeast, he told himself. It would not retreat inland or go to the left because of the cliffs. It could only attempt to go over him or to his right -- or through him. It came on without evidencing the slightest concern. As it drew closer Schadow was awed at its size -- it was bigger than any he had ever seen. The massive bladder, shining dull crimson in the sunlight, must have been fully forty meters across and almost a hundred long. The three hydrogen sacs inside fluttered larger and smaller as it adjusted its buoyancy in the weak on-sea winds. Sixteen airpaddles, eight along each side swept forward like closed fists, opened to reveal strong black membranes, pushed back to provide thrust. Fishing tentacles were coiled close to the cartilage ribbing that protected two-thirds of its underside from leaping sea carnivores. The poison-celled foretentacle that flipped about the bladder to watch for predators or parasites was set just behind the head which took up the other third. And its eyes -- they looked across at him -- were twin pools of molten amber, the black pupils expanding and contracting to the beat of the aerial supercoelenterate's savage life systems. They revealed a brooding intelligence that at once terrified and exhilarated him Schadow. He hovered as best he could in the skyhunter's path. The creature slowed, watching him. Schadow gave challenge. "Ho! Skyhunter! I have come to tame you, to form the bond of brotherhood between us for the good of my people -- or die trymg. The eyes burned into his. The foretentacle streaked for him. he had practiced since he had first taken to wing as a boy, slashing the air in front of him in a series of hissing sweeps. He want the beast to know that he could cut the tentacle in two if it threatened him but that he didn't want to. The tentacle retreated. The eyes studied him, their look now unreadable. For an instant something flashed in those eyes. Then the creature was moving. At first he thought it was retreating and the concept shocked him, for every skyhunter he had ever known or heard of would rather have suicided than run from an attacker, especially such a little attacker as a man. Then a gulping sound came to his ears. He smiled. It was increasing its buoyancy. It was going to attempt to go over him. Schadow pushed at the almost still air with his wings and began to climb. The skybeast, airpaddles sweeping lazily to maintain equilibrium, began to ascend in front of him. They went up and up until the clouds seemed to disappear as they melded into them and ice crystals danced about them, flickerbroke the sunlight. Shadow's exhaled breath began to form into puffs of frost. The tentacle again darted toward him and again he created a protective shield around him with hiis sword. "Ho! You will have to do better than that, great one." He watched the tentacle retreat and snap in the air as if in anger. With a mutter the coelenterate began to descend, its hydrogen already cooling and decreasing its lift. Schadow paralleled it. The clouds reformed above. The atmosphere became warmer. Schadow flexed his wings to spoil his descent and was amazed to discover that this adversary was picking up downward speed. He allowed himself to fall with it until he was forced to brake. Surely the thing wasn't going to dash itself into the ground! He felt himself go cold in a way the high frost couldn't have affected him. It was indeed throwing itself at the twisted rock country. Shaken, the birdman watched it drop until it was falling away from him like a plummeting boulder. It hit the earth, narrowly missing a jagged outcropping. Dust billowed from the impact site. The crimson bladder shook, flattened, appeared to burst. Then it was rebounding back up at him. Schadow would have laughed in relief and admiration for the creature if it had not been lofting directly at him with tremendous speed. He wheeled, pushing the air in desperation. It rushed past him. The foretentacle narrowly missed him and one of the Fishing tentacles touched his left leg. He cried out in pain. Stubbornly he wheeled again and chased it until it leveled off at four hundred meters. He checked his leg. A thin welt was forming across his calf. Luckily he hadn't been hooked on one of the barbs or touched by a poison capsule. "Ho-eee!" he shouted, making the traditional sign of admiration for one's enemy in the air with his sword. In turn, the skyhunter whipped its tentacle about in a remarkable mimicry of the sign. They settled down to eyeing one another again. Now perhaps the skybeast realized that it and Schadow must face each other, that each must prove to the other his courage and powers of endurance. And while they strained to endure the ordeal perhaps a bond would form between them. The huge eyes suddenly shifted and focused behind his right shoulder. Schadow looked around. IF him. Their wings fluttered feebly, their weight being supported by antigrav units strapped to their chests. They gripped swords of the best alloy metal. On their bodies they wore glittering collections of useless ornaments and gadgets. Fangs! Schadow remembered seeing packs of them when he had visited Starbase and he had heard many tales of their bloody raids. While they were adapted forms, the fangs preferred the sanctuary of the floating plastic city, venturing forth only for murder or pillage. One flew slightly ahead of the others. Setting a dial on his antigrav, he hovered about ten meters from Schadow, alternately watching the lone warrior and the skyhunter. "I am Garp," he said. "So?" Schadow hefted his sword and tentatively tested its edge with his thumb. He looked over his shoulder to check the beast. Though he acted calmly, he strained all the while to maintain his hovering position without appearing to tire. "I am leader of our pack." Garp had an artificially bronzed skin, a fat belly and shining bald head. He reminded Schadow of a Buddha idol -- perhaps ancient religions were the latest fashion among the basicforms, whom the fangs always emulated, body sculpture being the dominant art form among the non-adapted men of the Confederacy. "Then it is up to you to lead your men -- if they deserve that title -- away. You should know that the ordeal with a skyhunter is a private matter. You have no right here." Garp laughed. "But we have come such a long way to find you. Ven here," he swept his empty hand toward a thinner version of himself who grinned and bowed awkwardly in the air, "saw your people arrive at the base and overheard them talking about you." Now it was Garp's turn to test his sword edge with his thumb, though Schadow saw sky between flesh and metal. "Having nothing better to do, we decided that we should come out and help you. I mean, all that talk that you people keep giving us about living with nature and not against it to to the contrary, we thought that you'd like the power of civilization behind you in this affair." He looked at the beast, briefly meeting its eyes. His voice went softer. "I've never een a man killed by one of those before." Garp looked at his sword then shouted, "Ven!" "Ho?" "The triplets will stay with me. You take the other two and go behind the thing to keep it from getting away." "Understood." The three adjusted their antigravs and pushed themselves into position. Garp looked at Schadow. "You." Schadow felt his jaw muscles tighten in anger. "In my wide experience in dealing with men of action, I have usually found that even the bravest need a little push in the right direction on occasion. We watched you fighting the thing and it is our considered opinion that you keep too far from it. Right men?" The trio that moved in behind hin answered in chorus, "Right." "So let's give him the courage he needs." Garp waited until the three were even with hinvbefore moving slowly toward the warrior, sword held out ahead of him like a lance. Garp had slowed so that two others were the first to reach him. Folding his wings, Schadow fell. He outstretched them again and regained altitude, slashing at one fang who had just set his antigrav to dive and had left the top of his head vulnerable. He felt his sword crack through the skull. The man screamed and floated away from the contestants. He slashed at the second man, Garp screamed in rage. "Kill him," he ordered. The other two didn't need encouraging. They rushed at Schadow. He parried the lunging weapon of the first, ducked the second and looked for Garp. The latter proved to be a greater danger than Schadow had guessed. The fang leader held his sword before him, elbow locked, and maneuvered himself by twisting the dials on his antigrav. He flashed in and out with extreme accuracy and Schadow learned respect for the antigrav as he desperately put up a defense. The other two pressed beside him, forcing him to fall back toward the skyhunter. "Yen," shouted Garp. "Drive the thing this way." Schadow looked behind him. Yen and his companions were efficiently moving the skybeast toward him. Not that he feared the skyhunter so much -- though he knew what his fate would be if it caught him -- but he felt concern that the flashing blades would soon cripple the animal. It was battling with a ferocity it had not shown earlier. Its fishing tentacles lashed out as it rocked in the air. Its foretentacle hung poised to strike. Its paddles sent it spinning on an axis, making it harder to predict its next attack or parry. Even so, it didn't have a chance against this pack. The fact that its fiery suicide -- when it accepted defeat -- would take its tormentors with it was little consolation. Something nagged at the back of IF Schadow's mind but the fangs gave him no time to find out what it was. His keel muscles were blazing with pain as he was forced to beat his wings to hold his position. He could feel himself weakening. For the first time in his life he envied the power the antigrav gave a flyer, as his attackers pressed themselves more keenly against him. His sword of bloodied bone took the full force of a downward stroke from above and was chipped. He stabbed at Garp, who replied by smashing Schadow's sword with a jarring blow that broke the point. Cursing, Schadow put his full fury into an offense, momentarily driving the three back. Garp lost his temper and for the first time truly led the attack. They came at him at once. The wind shimmered and the birdman saw a brief updraft roll up to them like a pearl-gray bubble. He flexed his wings. The warm bubble enveloped them, jostling the fangs and lifting their inteded victim above them. Spitting monosyllables, the trio adjusted their antigravs and shot toward him. Schadow, momentarily relieved from battle and able to rest his burning muscles, was amazed. Had they been so busy that they hadn't seen the thermal? But surely they must have. No matter how involved you were, you always watched the air about you. You had to if you wanted to fly. Garp and the others were at him again. His weapon rendered useless as a foil, he was forced to slash and chop at them. He scratched Garp's bronze belly, forcing him behind the other two. H e saw a second thermal bubble coming up at them. Winging over, he dived. The fangs fell Want a way out of whatever it is you're in Then read -- The Magazine of Alternatives beside him. When he leveled off, they leveled beside him, prepared to continue the fight. The thermal hit and again he was carried away from them. They couldn't see! It was a hard fact to understand but there was the proof. Any child of Schadow's clan would have seen that bubble and yet these winged adults had looked right at it without noticing it. Was it possible? He watched them coming up at him, playing with the knobs on their antigravs. He saw the truth and with it a possibility. These men, adapted for the air though they were, were creatures of the Starbase, where no man ever did what a mechanism could more easily do. Even though they had flown the skies all their lives, they had never really flown. Using their wings only as stabilizers, they let their antigravs do their flying for them. Not having the need to know the currents of the atmosphere, they had lost, if they had ever had, the ability to see them. In a very important way they were blind. Again Schadow dived. This time he looped low and under the trailing tentacles of the skyhunter. The fangs reset their equipment and gave easy chase. "Ven -- " shouted Garp. Ven looked down and peeled away from the troubled skyhunter, followed by his comrades. The six formed a rough flock behind Schadow. Banking to his left, he put his last dregs of energy into flying for the red cliffs. As his pursuers closed the distance between them he regarded the bleak cliffs and the wispy blanket of air that rose up and over it. Every instinct cried out to him to veer away. He reached the outer edge of the blanket and soared upward, the wind brushing his face gently and with no hint of where it would take him if he stayed with it. The pack adjusted and rose behind him. Ven was leading and only five meters below, his teeth showing in a tight grin. Ven overtook him as they reached the summit and Schadow was carried across the rough top. With one hand on his antigrav Ven threw himself at the birdman. Schadow met sword with sword. As Ven pulled back to make a second stab, Schadow somersaulted beneath him and slashed upward. Blood spurted past his face. Ven screamed and twisted in the air, held aloft by his device. The second attacker was luckier. His sword caught Schadow's at an angle, breaking it just above the guard. Schadow tossed the handle into the man's face. Shouting in victory, Garp moved in ahead of the others for the kill. "Die, you -- " he yelled, raising his weapon. His eyes burned. (Please turn to page #) IF The rule of the Brains was harsh but so was Mew Eden. Only spedal types of men could survive there! disdainful lines so the curious citizens wouldn't guess the sick dread inside him, walked as slowly as the two nervous lawkeeps let him. He put down wild thoughts of making a break at this last moment. Insane! Where would he run? Two blocks ahead Nose Cone, the colony's seat of government -- as well as its arsenal and main power plant for the century and a half since Landing -- loomed like an immense steel bullet against the blinding straw-colored New Eden sky. How well he knew that silhouette! Just beyond Nose Cone was the obtuse angle of South Fence in which Landington nestled. Beyond the fence rose Desolation Ridge, the weather barrier that split the relatively fertile colony land from Hidry Desert. Though the season was still spring, the kitchgrass was already bleached to a dirty white, and the gullies were baked dry. Beyond the ridge lay his almost certain exile. One of the lawkeeps, a careful four paces behind, said, "Step it up, Tomsun!" The attendant at Access Four flushed and averted his eyes, obKreg now. Kreg walked past him and stood blinking for a moment in the dimmer light of Rotunda. The sensors detected him quickly. A voice said, "This is Captain Gerlik. Since you were apprenticed to Nose Cone, Tomsun, I'm going to hear you myself. You know my compartment." "Yes, sir." Kreg ignored the startled glances of citizens; there were few because this was neither a Lecture Day nor a Museum Day. He crossed the high-vaulted chamber to a door a third of the way around the circumference, pushed it open and descended the ramp. One deck down, he left the ramp via another door and walked along a cross-ship corridor. He could feel under his feet the vibration of machinery two decks down and hear the familiar hums. How long, he wondered absently as he had so often, would the fissionables last? And what would the colony do for power when they were gone? There were no 'pairbots in the corridor. He pushed open the door of Compartment NC Six, entered and stood facing the stainless-steel cabinet against the outboard bulkhead. M an height, the rectangular compartment was. The lower part was featureless -- he knew there was machinery in it, and some free space. At face height were six orifices in a horizontal row -- the outer two, the ears, about eight inches apart; the inner, the eyes, about three inches apart. The other twj? were for smelling. Below the line of orifices was the voice-grill. There were, of course, other sensors in various parts of the room, as well as unseen weapons, but the cabinet's particular sensory organs were placed to give the preserved Brain inside as nearly a human viewpoint as possible. Captain Gerlik, as the history books told, had been only Third Officer, but he was senior of the surviving Brains. One would think, Kreg mused sourly, that some distinction would be displayed. But this compartment and this cabinet were identical with the other four. The voice from the grill was Gerlik's. "Sit down, Tomsun." Kreg slid into the single plain chair. He stared defiantly at the cabinet's features. The voice, when it came again, sounded bored. "Tomsun, as you know, you're entitled to this last hearing. Are there new facts you want to present?" Kreg sat wordless for a minute. Finally he shrugged. "I didn't hide anything before." The voice sighed. "All right; I'll state what's ort record. One hundred twenty-six planetary days ago you were arrested for fist-fighting. Ninety-seven days ago you were arrested on an identical charge. That being your second citation, you were given Formal Warning." The sick feeling in Kreg's stomach made him shift in the chair. "The two situations were not identical!" Gerlik said impatiently, "I have access to your testimony, and that of witnesses. In the first instance, a man jostled you and made threatening remarks. You replied and soon you were trading punches. In the second instance, several members of a gang, as you called it, goaded you into fighting by making remarks about your courage or lack of it. Those were the circumstances. The charges were identical." Kreg shrugged. The Brain went on, "And now there's a third charge. I suppose you're going to say the circumstances are again different." K reg sat stonily for a moment. He had refused to talk IF at the last trial -- witnesses had said enough. Now, though, he faced exile... "They were different, if you care. There was -- I was with a young lady and another fellow tried to -- to cut in. He knew I had received a Formal Warning, so he thought rd be afraid to fight." Gerlik sounded amused. "But you weren't, of course, and you swung a fist." Kreg said, "He swung one first." "And," Gerlik said, "it was thereupon incumbent upon you to punch back?" Kreg's face grew warmer. "That's how most of us feel." "Whom do ygu mean by 'us'?" "Young men of my age." "Which is?" Kreg said -- a little angrily because his age was on file, "Nineteen." Rather young aren't you?" Kreg clamped his lips on a hot reply. He mustn't let himself be needled into saying what was in his mind. The voice continued. "We'll let that pass, since you seem to consider yourself old enough to break the law. Were either you or the young lady in physical danger?" Kreg said impatiently, "Of course not. The incident was a -- a deliberate challenge to my manhood. I don't see what a thing like this, a simple fist-fight between two young men, has to do with law. It isn't as if -- as if I'd taken a pistol and shot someone through the head -- or broken into a house and stolen something!" sighed. "Obviously you haven't listened to the things we've tried to teach you. So listen now. We have close to nine thousand people in the colony. Survival isn't easy -- New Eden is not a fertile planet -- and will get harder as we grow. Violent people aren't the type we need. We need people ternative is more and more lawkeeps and more and more of the colony's potential, wasted. Matters are bad enough at this point. Do you know the colony's average growth over the last twentyfive years?" Kreg said impatiently, "A third of a percent a year." "Right." The voice fell briefly silent. "Tomsun, such a statistic may mean nothing to you. To us -- to the Brains -- it's highly distressing. We're not going to live  forever and the fissionables won't last forever. A time limit exists Within it we must build a colony capable of surviving on its own. Its people must not collapse into wars and anarchy. Here's a statistic, Tomsun, that you may not have heard -- we've had to exile, for various kinds of violence or other antisocial behavior, a little over one-half of one percent of total population per year! At present we're shrinking, not growing. There's a dilemma -- do we ruthlessly weed out the unsuitable, or do we keep the marginal ones in favor of growth?" voice to resume. When it didn't he said, "lt seems to me you go pretty far toward weeding out anyone with a little spirit." Gerlik caught him up. "Spirit? Have we ever exiled anyone for peaceful competition? Do we prohibit arguing as long as nothing harder than words is thrown?" "No, but -- well, you're damned hard on girls!" The voice sighed. "Now you're talking about morals. Qf course, we uphold moral standards -- they're part and parcel of the kind of society we need. Tomsun, we're wandering from your own case. Do you have any new facts to present?" "No." "Then the sentence will have to stand. Exile," Kreg found himself on his feet. "Why don't you just shoot me? Why maintain this farce of exile? Do you think it's civilized to let people starve outside or go blind from the sun, die of thirst or be killed by predators?" "Or," the voice said calmly, "kill each other. Don't forget that part. Yes, we're being civilized. We're sparing your fellow colonists the job of executing you or of guarding and supporting you in prison -- or caring for you after a brainwashing. And you don't have to die automatically once you're exiled. Exes do survive; lots of them. Now, Tomsun, this is all the time I can give you. When you leave Nose Cone -- " Kreg said desperately, "I have a right to make a bequest and choose an executor." Gerlik sighed. "Choose, then." "I choose my great-uncle!" "All right. You know his compartment." II known to the whole family -- was the only one of the Brains who hadn't been born either on the Ship or on Earth itself. He had been born on New Eden and had lived there seventy-three years. He greeted Kreg quietly. "I can't say how sorry I am. I had great hopes for you. Why couldn't you have held your temper? Are a few taunts all that important?" Kreg, standing, gripped the chair back. "Ben, don't talk like the rest of them. Can't you see that it's not fair? No matter how hard I tried, someone would have goaded me into fighting. They'd hive pushed as far as necessary, knowing I had had a Formal Warning, and now I'm being punished while they -- " Ben interrupted quietly, "Hold on, boy. They were all cited -- IF even the ones who never touched you, only looked on. Some got their second citations. They have to walk a tightrope from now on. And don't keep calling your sentence punishment -- and don't call it unfair. Wotild it be fair to the orderly members of the colony to leave violent genes among them? Do you think we Brains could die knowing we had left the seeds of self-destruction in the colony?" Kreg said furiously, was pushed farther than I could stand. I had to fight or -- or admit I wasn't a man. Can't you understand that?" Ben said quietly, "No, I can't. What harm would it have done you to have swallowed your pride? To my way of thinking to have done so would have been the greater manhood. Can't you un"No." "Then you're not a very bright young man." K reg took two trembling steps and gripped the chair back again. For one red instant he wanted to lift it and swing it at the cabinet. Not that he could have done much harm -- if he did succeed in breaking an eye the hidden weapons would blast him down and 'pairbots or attendants would come and carry his remains away and repair the sensor. Instead, he spoke in a low, shaky voice, "I don't see it as a question of brightness. I'm flesh and blood and I react accordingly. While you -- " Ben said with only a trace of sharpness in his artificial voice, "While I'm just a glandless hunk of protoplasm in a saturated sponge. Is that it?" Now that it was said, Kreg wouldn't back down. "That's right. You've been that way so long you can't remember what it's like to be a man." Ben said coolly, "You wanted to make a bequest. Get on with it." Kreg said bitterly, "I own a few credits in the bank and some clothes. I bequeath the credits to you and the other Brains. Maybe you can buy some pin-up picturesfor your compartment walls. I don't cre what you do with the clothes. Wear them, if you can find a way!" He turned and ran out of the compartment. He thought he heard a chuckle behind him. T he gravcar settled onto loose sandy soil. Kreg stared at the quilltrees growing sparsely in a shallow ravine that led southward. His neutral-gray goggles did not distort colors, but he could see little green in the spiny Joshuatreelike things -- they were offwhite like dry old bones. They and the kitchgrass were the only vegetation in sight. He climbed wordlessly from the car and accepted the felt-covered canteen and the bundle of rations one lawkeep handed him. He already had, in a thick compartmented belt, a supply of salt, some antibiotic tablets and a burningglass for making fire. The only weapon allowed him was a knife in a scabbard. The second lawkeep said, not unkindly, "That ravine will have water a few miles south. You'd better stay here until night, though -- a group of exes was sighted not far down a few days ago. They might not be hospitable." Kreg stood and watched the car rise, then dart north. A hundred and fifty miles was estimate of the distance they'd brought him. Too to walk back, even if something other than a bullet waited at the fence. He turned listlessly toward the ravine. Insects buzzed in saffron sunlight made bearable by his goggles. The heat was already striking through his loose white garments. He moved hesitantly to-, ward the nearest big quilltree. Predators weren't supposed to range this far north, but he wasn't sure. And exiles might ambush hirn for the things he had. He sat down in the quilltree's slim shadow. Winged insects flew away from him. He opened the canteen and drank sparingly, though the dryness of the air made him want to gulp mouthfuls. The desert smelled dusty and the quilltree smelled like hot grease. Something -- those locustlike insects. maybe -- had an odor of thymol. There were no feathered birds on New Eden, but now that the gravcar was gone things like slender four-inch winged lizards began to flit about, catching insects. Kihches, they were called. He had heard that starving exes sometimes ate them. They did not tempt him -- they looked like tight twists of dry gray paper, with cellophane wings. N ight came and the air cooled a little. Neither moon was in The brightest point of light in the sky was not a star. Kreg lay on his back, staring up at it. Main Hull, it was -- practically all of the Ship except Nose Cone. Originally it had been left in a standing orbit directly above Landington, but by now it had lagged a little and skewed off to the west, so it was below the zenith. The living quarters, schools, clinics and amusement centers had been in Main Hull, along with most of hydroponics and ship's machinery, including the main drives. The passengers landing in Nose Cone, must have been crowded. He wondered how long it would be before Main Hull's orbit decayed enough to bring it down as a meteor. Thousands of years perhaps. It seemed a shame to waste all that metal, but landing it would have used up a lot of fissionables. Something -- a kinch -- crawled IF onto his hand. Startled, he threw it off, then rose to his feet and moved cautiously downravine. Mostly, the ground between quilltrees was too sandy to support much growth, but here and there, in richer pockets, kitchgrass grew. The individual plant was like a small sprout of asparagus with five oval leaves arranged radially around its base. Where enough moisture existed the grass formed an almost complete cover. Kreg, pausing to peer ahead, stooped, plucked one of the sprouts and chewed on it. The taste was mildly bitter; the texture dry and pithy; only when it first sprouted was the stuff succulent. After a minute he spat it out and took a sip from his canteen. Then he trudged on. Eight or nine miles downravine, where the quilltrees grew more thickly, he suddenly stopped, crouching beside one of the spiny trunks. From ahead came a rumble of sound like many feet pounding. The sound grew rapidly. Thoroughly scared, he ran for the nearer side of the ravine and struggled up the loose slope, sliding back one step for every two he gained, slipping often to hands and knees. Finally, gaining level ground, he ran to a small hummock and threw himself down beside it where he could watch the ravine. In the starlight he could see plainly the marks he had left on the slope. Dare he stay here? But it was too late to get up and run. A couple of hundred yards ahead he saw swift movement among the quilltrees. He lay still, trying not to breathe audibly -- then realized that the thunder of the stampede would drown out any noise he made. T hey were hellrunners. He rec-. ognized them though he had seen only three or four such creatures in his life from gravcars. This closeup view of a whole herd was awesome. The bodies, from the thrusting snouts to the tips of the long heavy tails, were as much as fifteen feet lohg and reptilian. But unlike the Terran crocodiles in old movies, these New Eden creatures did not crawl on four legs. Instead they ran in swift long strides on two mightily muscled hind limbs, their bodies parallel to the ground and fifty inches or more above it, the tails balancing the foreparts. Great three-toed feet drummed upon the soil and sent it flying. The relatively puny forelimbs were clutched against the pumping chests. The heads, hardly bigger than a man's though more elongated, swayed on long necks as the hurtling creatures swerved among the quilltrees and darted looks ahead. Kreg shivered, thinking of the strength needed to keep those  heavy bodies balanced parallel to the ground. Behind the big males in the lead came the females and the young. running more gracefully. A rear guard of young males twisted their heads about to watch the trail behind. Kreg pressed himself close to the ground, fearing some monstrous pursuer of the fleeing herd. But the last of the herd passed, including a straggler or two, and the thunder diminished up the ravine with no sign of pursuit. He lay there until the ravine was quiet again, then dusted off his garments and began to walk along the edge of the slope. He didn't think he wanted to go down among the quilltrees again. Suddenly figures loomed before him. He crouched, reaching hesitantly for his knife, but a voice said, "Hold it right there, newie," and he saw spears ready. HI F or a minute nothing more was said and no one moved. Kreg gave a start as a menacing bellow sounded from upravine. The exile who had spoken before -- a darkbearded man of perhaps forty, as tall as Kreg but very lean -- grinned in the starlight. "Relax. That's one of our sentries, keeping those hellrunners moving. We want the ravine to ourselves for a while. When did you come out?" "Abopt noon." "What for?" "Fistfighting." "Oh, yes? Are you pretty good with your fists?" Kreg shrugged. "I never made a study of it. I didn't look for the fights." "I see," the bearded man said casually. "What's your name?" Kreg rejected an impulse to say it was none of the man's business. "Tomsun," "Tomsun? Which family are you? The one related to the Brain?" "That's right." The spokesman grunted. "Does your family still spend a lot of time visiting Uncle Ben?" Kreg said irritably, "As much as ever I guess. Why? Are you a Tomsun?" "No. I just wondered if you'd been in Nose Cone quite a bit. And why Uncle Ben let this happen to you." Kreg, his anger at the Brains stirring within him, said, "I've been in and out of Nose Cone since before I could pronounce it. The last two years I've been an apprentice attendant. But Uncle Ben seemed to agree with the other Brains that it's antisocial for a man to stand up to a challenge." The spokesman stared at Kreg. Then he muttered something under his breath, sighed and said, "All right. I'll tell you how it is with us. We're not the most lawless tribe of exes, but we don't recruit weaklings. You can come in with us tentatively, but you'll have to contribute those supplies you've got, carry your weight and stick by our rules. If you decline, you'll have to IF stay away from this ravine. I wouldn't swap much for your chances in that case." Kreg said woodenly, "It doesn't sound as if I had much choice. If you want the knife and the goggles and salt and antibiotics, I guess you can take them." The spokesman said patiently, "We won't take them. We don't care to compel anyone to join us. other kind are too much trouble. There's another ravine fifteen miles east that you could reach before sunup." "I guess I'd be a fool to decline your offer." "Fine," the bearded man said. "My name's Pendergast. This is Nujent and this is -- " B efore morning Kreg understood the stampede of hellrunners. Pendergast's exes had started it. They had with them the intact cured skins of two huge quadruped carnivores, somewhat like Terran lions in form but much bigger add scaly rather than furred. Two men in a skin could move it fast enough and imitate the living beast's bellow well enough to stampede a herd of the non-carnivorous hellrunners. In this particular instance, the purpose was dual: to chase them away from a waterhole and to kill a few stragglers for meat. The meat, now sizzling on spits over open fires, tasted like chicken, though it was tougher. The water in the stagnant pool, which was shaded by a thick growth of quilltrees and some round-leaved shootlike things, had to be settled; decanted and boiled before it was drinkable. Kreg threaded his way along a pricklybordered hellrunner trail to look at that pool. He didn't hear Pendergast behind him until the trek leader spoke. "Wondering how water stays here into the dry season?" "Yes ' The bearded man kneeled and swished murky water. "The hellrunners -- or people, now that we're here -- keep holes dug out. You'll notice that raised rim of dirt. In a low pocket of a ravine like this, where quilltrees grow this thick, you'll almost always find ground water if you dig down a ways. Seepage will keep the hole filled." Kreg nodded. "I understand there's an actual lake somewhere south." "Yes." In the early light Pendergast's.eyes showed gray and Kreg could see a strip of less tanned skin across his eyes and nose. "Sixty miles downravine. Lake Salvation, we call it. That's where our tribe is." "How big is the tribe?" "About four hundred, including a few offshoots that live elsewhere." "Oh. That big?" Kreg pondered a moment. Then: "Isn't this pretty far to come on a hunt?" Pendergast looked faintly surprised. "The hunt's incidental. We are a trading expedition." "What do you trade?" "Salt, for one thing -- there are pockets in the ravine -- and water. We take metal in return. You'll be going with us, unless you want to trek sixty miles downravine alone." "No, thanks. Where are we going and with whom will we trade?" "There are a half-dozen small tribes west of here, who mine metals and don't have salt or enough water of their own. We'll make the circuit, then head back down another ravine to the lake. Now, as to your stuff." The trekleader glanced at Kreg's belt. "You may as well wear that and the goggles until we get home. There'll be people at the lake who need the goggles worse than you do, but the rest of us on this trek are used to slits. Nujent will take the knife because he knows how to use it better than any of us. Did you ever carry a backpack?" "No." "It'll take a little getting used to. We won't give you too much -- say, about three gallons of water plus your own canteen and your share of the cooked meat. It won't be an easy trek for you, this first time, but you look healthy." Kreg said, "I'll keep up." the expedition to twenty-one. He noticed that he was carrying the lightest burden -- most of the others had six or eight gallons of water, in thin leather bags that didn't leak or sweat. Still, what he had was none too little. The extra weight tired him quickly and made his feet and his back muscles ache. The packstraps rubbed his shoulders raw. He was always thirsty and he hated the caked dust on his skin, but he stuck grimly to the pint-a-day water ration. The slits Pendergast had mentioned were carved wooden goggles with horizontal openings. The exes seemed to find them little nuisance, but the head-bobbing to raise and lower the field of view was odd. There were other strange things too: the sun fence -- a long sheet of leather erected on poles during daylight stops; the probing ahead on downslopes with staffs to avoid loose pockets of dirt beneath thin crusts; the winding routes that took the group to leeward of hills. All had the purpose of avoiding unnecessary perspiration; for example, after one tumble down a slope, Kreg understood the value of the staffs. When the country was fairly level they traveled at night. When rt was not they traveled during the day, the better to avoid treacherous footing and dangerous animals. Once they did encounter a herd of hellrunners. Kreg -- because he had the goggles -- saw them first. IF The expedition was crossing a ravine that had only a scattering of quilltrees. The big creatures were browsing slowly along, heads rising and bodies lifting as they nibbled daintily at comparatively tender quills atop the trees. He must have jerked his head around quickly enough to alert Pendergast, for the trek leader was beside him at once, gripping his arm. "Turn slowly and walk upravine. "Don't hurry and don't look back." Kreg, after a hesitant moment, complied. From the corners of his goggles he could see the other men walking slowly to either side. They must have gone a quarter-mile before Pendergast said, "All right. Out of the ravine now. They've decided we're no threat." Kreg started up the slope. Suddenly he stopped, staring to his right. "Doesn't that look like -- " But Pendergast and others were already striding to where Kreg pointed. of a newie, obviously not long dead, dressed as Kreg had been when first set down. The expedition gathered to stare silently. The man -- older than Kreg -- had left tracks from the north. He had apparently stopped to sleep and something had crept up on him. His throat was torn open and part of one shoulder was eaten away. Blood had soaked into the ground. There were fang marks on his forearms as if he had tried to shield his throat, but the standard knife was in its scabbard. Pendergast stooped to unbuckle the belt. Two other men hoisted the corpse so the belt could be pulled free. The first thing Pendergast did then was unsnap the goggles compartment and take out the goggles, which began to darken rapidly, adjusting to the daylight. "I'll wear these if no one objects." The others nodded. Nujent picked up the canteen and shook it. "He drank most of his water the first day." Kreg, resenting the calm acceptance of the tragedy, demanded, "How do you know it was only one day?" Pendergast gave him a glance through the newly acquired goggles. "He's only one day's walk from where he'd have been set down. This seems to bother you. Know him?" "No, but -- " The trek leader shrugged. "It's too bad he got himself killed, but it was his own fault. He should have rested during the day and trekked at night, as you did. Then he wouldn't have been sneaked up on." Kreg supposed that was so. "What killed him?" "A gollycat. They skulk around herds of hellrunners, picking off the young or stragglers. Not the biggest predator you'll see here. but the size of leopards. Scaly quadrupeds' Kreg said impatiently, "Pve seen pictures of them. But this man could have been warned more thoroughly, or set down in a safer place." The exes were all looking at Kreg now. After a minute Perfdergast said, 'There are a couple of us here who know how you feel -- I was exiled myself twelve years ago. Most of the others were born in the tribe. To them, a newie doesn't mean much until he's proved himself. Understand?" Kreg looked around at the impassive men. "I guess so. But -- the same thing could have happened to me. I wasn't watned about gollycats either. I. thought they only lived east of the colony, in the Sunrise Hills." Nujent, grinning, put in, "We aren't any greater admirers of the system, or of the Brains, than you are, even if we've never talked to them. Why do you think we live in the desert? The Sunrise Hills aren't as fertile as the colony land, but they're a lot better than this." Kreg looked at the slits of Nujent's wooden goggles. "I don't know why you live as you do. Why do you?" "Because the Brains won't let us have so much as a rifle to fight off predators. And predators are thick in the hills. A few years ago an uncle of mine got together the materials for gunpowder and hammered together a crude sort of cannon. About the fourth time he fired it, lawkeeps from the colony descended and took it away." Kreg said nothing. That was the law, of course -- exes could not own guns. He hadn't known, though, that exiles had ambition enough, or organization enough, to make gunpowder and a crude cannon. IV T he first trading was with a small tribe -- two families totaling fourteen individuals -- that lived in caves in the side of a ravine. The caves were actually the mines. From those mines came red iron ore that the tiny tribe smelted, using charcoal as the reducing agent, in an intriguing crude oven built of quartz crystals. The product was ingots of gray steel, pitted and grainy. The tribe had a well that produced insufficient water and they sold Pendergast twenty-four ingots for two six-gallon skins of water. What a contrast the metal was, Kreg mused, to the stock of stainless steel and other alloys stored in Nose Cone! The next two tribes were hardly different from the first. A night's trek beyond the third tribe, though, brought the expedition to a larger one -- close to fifty individuals -- that had, besides iron, a bronze alloy and some copper and lead. All but a little of the trading waIF ter went there. Now Kreg had to carry ingots in his backpack. They started on westward at sundown. At the first stop Kreg swallowed his mouthful of water and lay down on his back. Main Hull was just beginning to dim as it entered shadow. Pendergast sat down beside him. "Here we are, trekking for days to buy a few pounds of metal, while all that high-grade steel hangs up there in the sky! I wonder if it'll all burn up when it falls. If not, I suppose the colony's descendants will grab what's left." Kreg glanced at the bearded man. "You mean, you don't think your own descendants will have a chance at it?" "Do you?" Kreg, uncomfortable, knew this conversation was deliberate. "I suppose not, now that I think about it." Pendergast chuckled. "You said your descendants, though. Don't you expect to have any? Or don't you think of yourself as an exile yet?" Kreg's face grew warm. "I guess I've never thought about having descendants. When they sent me out..." The trek leader said, "There's a fairly even balance of men and women among us and you don't look like a potential bachelor to me. I have two sons and a daughter. I think a lot about them and about the children they'll have. Some day the Brains will finish this weeding out they preach, and let the colony expand. I wonder about what'll happen to my descendants then. I think they'll simply be pushed aside." Kreg, not liking the subject, didn't answer, and the older man let it rest there. T he next trading site was in a shallow ravine that had almost no kitchgrass and few quilltrees. The mine holes were there, but the tribe was missing. The expedition, after studying footprints that led downravine, set up the sun fence and stopped to discuss things. Nujent came back from looking at the local well. "Low, but not completely dry, so that wasn't why they left. Damn it -- another metal-source gone! Why don't we organize some ambushes and capture a grav car or two? We could fly them until the power gave out, then break them up for metal." Kreg saw Pendergast's sharp look at Nujent and didn't miss the ensuing exaggerated silence -- or Nujent's furtive look at Kreg. He felt his face grow warm. What was going on? Did they -- could they -- suspect he was a spy? Ridiculous! Why would the Brains want spies among the exiles? Nujent was saying, "If they'd intended to be back they'd have left a message. I'm for taking what metal's around." Pendergast said, "We could do that. Still, there is a chance they ntight come back -- or some of them might. We've got water we don't need for getting home. I think we ought to put it in what airtight containers we have and cache it here. That way they're paid for the metal, whatever happens. And if they don't come back the cache of water will keep. We might find it handy on the next expedition." Nujent shrugged. "Just so we get the metal." Four nights downravine they found the first graves. The missing tribe left no mystery here. A note, scrawled in charcoal upon a piece of leather hung on a cross, read, "Epidemic. No medicine. We're trying for the lake, but had to stop here two days, and nine out of seventeen died. Four others sick, but able to go on." The signature was, "Stan Peters, Mayor." Two of the nine graves were children's. back on the grave. "If we'd only been a few days earlier the antibiotics would have -- " Kreg asked hesitantly, "What kind of disease do you suppose it was?" The trek leader gestured vaguely. "There are several that hit people in the desert. One's something like very bad measles. Another's like diphtheria. The standard antibiotic is effective against all of them." Nujent muttered, "If you have any of it." Pendergast glanced at the sky. "Two hours till morning. I'm for trekking straight through until we catch them." No one demurred. They hurried on, alternating between a shuffling trot -- the best pace they could manage, laden as they were -- and a slow walk to catch breath. Sweat covered Kreg; and he was desertminded enough now to be disturbed about it. He stubbornly resisted the yearning to drink and after a while he stopped sweating. Now he felt like a dry leaf. He stared in vague horror at his hands -- the very flesh seemed to have shrunk. The pulse in his muggy head was hot and noisy and his limbs trembled with weakness. Some time after noon they rounded a bend and found the eight survivors sprawled in what shade was available. Stan Peters was one of the four sick and in no condition to talk. Except for the slow rise and fall of his chest and an occasional twitch he seemed dead, but a few drops of water on his swollen, parched tongue brought a moan and a stir. Kreg helped erect the sun fence and drag the victims into its shade. Pendergast went among them with a waterbag. Kreg noted that not one of them -- even the youngest child -- gulped. As badly off as they IF were, they had the self-control to sip meagerly. When all had been revived enough to swallow antibiotic tablets from Kreg's belt a brief council was held. The decision was that Nujent and four others would stay behind to help the survivors along when they were able to travel, while Pendergast and the bulk of the expedition went on ahead. They started at sundown. Three nights' travel took them to Lake Salvation. any such growth of vegetation in Hidry Desert. The entire shallow bowl was perhaps fifteen miles across, the lake occupying the hub. The entire land area was wooded. Quilltrees grew on the slopes, while the flat bottom was choked with tall straight round-leaved trees resembling Terran poplars. Kitchgrass formed a lush carpet; insects and kinches swarmed above it. There were small rabbitlike quadrupeds -- not furry but scaled -- and once Kreg saw, darting between the trees, a dozen predators more or less feline in shape and about as big as a lynx. They, too, were furless. There were no birds, but he saw winged reptiles bigger than the kinches, and gliding quadrupeds. The only edible fruit -- to which Pendergast introduced him on the way -- were tiny round things that grew in clusters. They tasted like peaches except for an alumlike quality that made Kreg's mouth pucker. The trek leader grinned. "They're moist at least. Terran transplants would grow here if the colony would part with any. There's a good layer of soil, moist enough a few feet down. It's not salty -- there must be enough underground drainage to prevent that. We could support a fair-sized population here." Kreg stared along the trail they were following. "Is your -- I mean our -- tribe the only one here?" Pendergast shook his head. "We're the biggest, but there are four others scattered around the lake. Plus some roving bands that summer here. We have our own sector, which includes the ravine where we met you. Others claim other ravines. A ravine, especially one with ground water, is a sort of highway. A tribe naturally trades with an area that can be reached from its own ravine. Practically the whole population of Hidry Desert lives within a hundred miles of the lake." Kreg looked southward, but the far rim of the basin hid the country beyond. "It can't be more than five hundred miles in that direction to South Sea." "No," Pendergast agreed, "and it's only a hundred and eighty to Salterra Escarpment. You could travel that far in the rainy season -- if you call six or seven inches of rain rainy. Below that the land is one salt flat, an old seabed, and there's practically no rain from South Sea." Kreg said, "But there are other continents. And some day when the colony expands -- " The bearded exile smiled. "Some day, yes -- if there are still fissionables in Nose Cone and if the machinery is still working. But long before then our descendants will have been -- as I said before -- shoved aside." V K reg was surprised at the way the tribe lived. There were no shelters except sun shades. A family site consisted of sleeping pads in some tree clump, ;some pegs in tree trunks to hang things on and perhaps a hanging shelf to keep things away from children or small animals. Possessions included a few garments for warding off sun, some cooking utensils and a rack of weapons -- spears, bows, knives. And, of course, waterbags. The whole settlement was strung along a small tongue of lake jutting into the ravine. The food had little variety. Fish or other meat was a staple. Bread was made from dried and pulverized quilltree roots. The single fruit provided a beverage -- the juice, boiled with a certain bark then settled, lost its astringency. It could be fermented and usually was. There were children of all ages and adults. Kreg found himself ogling the wrong girls and drawing haughty looks from them and menacing scowls from young men, until he learned what kind of hairbraids meant marriage or engagement. The work was necessarily hard. Kreg, assigned to a camp of young bachelors, went on hunts. Fished for solelike creatures in the lake, dug roots, carried waterbags, and the like. There was vague talk of his learning some such trade as metalworking, but for now his young strong back was sufficient. Nujent had arrived several days behind him, shepherding all but one of the rescued group. The one had died along the way. Stan Peters and the other sick were recovering. Excited by their arrival, Pendergast had gone into hurried council with Peters and Nujent; then Pendergast and Nujent had left, taking with them some small leather-wrapped bundles. They had returned a day later without the bundles and without explanation. Kreg, who had found occasion to talk to Pendergast afterward, had discovered the lean, bearded man oddly distracted. He hadn't asked questions. Forty or fifty days went by. Kreg was accepted now -- no one treated him like an outsider. He began to IF spend what free time he had at the tribe's forge, where the acquired metal and some worn-out cooking utensils were being fashioned into new things. His old life in the colony seemed distant. O NE day six gravcars appeared over the lake. Kreg happened to be fishing and saw them at once. His midriff went taut. These were four-place lawkeep cars and, though he could see no weapons, he presumed the cars to be armed. What did they want? The sun glinted on something -- cameras. He stayed where he was, watching, while the cars slowly circled the lake. Why this survey? The colony already had pictures of the lake. Then the small flotilla came directly toward him. He looked around nervously, saw no one else in sight and rejected an urge to run. One of the cars dropped to hover a few yards out and the canopy slid back. Now he could see rifle barrels. The lawkeeps stared at him as if he were an alien. Finally one spoke. "How many exiles live around this lake?" Kreg hesitated. "I don't know. I've only been here a little while." The lawkeep scowled. "Is that so? How many tribes are there?" "Four, I guess." "Where do you live, if you don't live here?" Kreg felt himself flush. "I live here now. I was just exiled the middle of spring." The four occupants of the car looked surprised. Then the spokesman grinned. "Well, how nany people would you guess live here?" Kreg wondered what to say. "A couple hundred -- maybe a few more. I haven't seen many." The spokesman said something to the others, then made a gesture. Kreg could see him using a handmicrophone. The canopy slid shut and the car rose. The six cars took up a formation radial to the lake and began a circle over the surrounding woods. Kreg picked up what fish he had and hurried toward Pendergast's living site. The bearded ex was standing in a small clear area, chest moving as if he'd just been running, staring after the gravcars. His family peered nervously from cover. Pendergast turned quickly to Kreg. "Did you see them?" "I sure did. They flew around the lake taking pictures, then came down and asked me questions." "How many were there? What kind of cars? What did they want?" "They want to know how many people live here." The bearded man grunted. "What did you tell them?" "I said I was new and that I guessed two hundred." Pendergast grinned. "That was all right. But what do you guess they are doing now?" saw cameras aimed straight down -- and some other instruments. I'd say they're running a photo-map of the basin. Also -- well, the cars carry infrared detectors, that can find a person through foliage. They could be trying to get a count on us." Pendergast sighed. "I imagine that's it. I'm going to where I can keep an eye on them. Will you find Nujent and Peters? Tell them I want to see them up near the rim." again until the next day. "Tomsun, we want you to attend a council. Don't mention it to anybody." Kreg waited while Pendergast rounded up some family heads who served as elders of the tribe. The small group walked up the ravine almost to the rim of the basin, then turned off along a game trail. Presently they joined other men in a quilltree thicket. Nujent and Peters were there. Pendergast opened the talk. "This is secret. We're worried about the colony's intentions. This is the first time they've ever tried to take a head count or survey the basin." He sat brooding for a moment, then looked at Kreg. "Tomsun, we're as sure now as we'll ever be that you're not a spy. Anyway, we're taking the risk because we need you. For some time we've had a vague plan to raid the colony for weapons and things. What we've been waiting for is someone familiar enough with Nose Cone and the area around it to fill in certain details for us -- and to do certain things inside. Events seem to be pushing us part?" Kreg stared at the man. "Raid the colony? You can't be serious. How would you even get close to it, let alone through the fence?" Pendergast told him, "We'd have teams going north ahead of time to bury caches of water and food. And we think we can sneak in." "But the lawkeeps -- " Nujent put in tensely. "That's one thing we who were born here don't know about. Would lawkeeps have guts enough to fight? And how about repair robots? Could they use guns?" Kreg felt bewildered. "Uh -- the 'pairbots couldn't aim guns with much accuracy. The lawkeeps would fight -- don't get the idea that all the courage has been weeded out of the colony. They'd be under direct orders of the Brains, anyway." Pendergast said impatiently, "Nujent, we're not going to try to storm in. Tomsun, what do you think -- if we got into Nose Cone disguised as citizens and seized control, could we raid the arsenal and get enough weapons? And what else would we be up against?" Kreg stared dazedly at the taut IF faces. "You've seen Nose Cone, Pendergast. It was built to withstand centuries in space -- if necessary. It's a virtual fortress. Once you got inside, if the access doors were closed you'd be trapped." The bearded exile grinned. "We are planning on that. Tell me -- would a heavy pistol bullet penetrate those cabinets the Brains are in?" Kreg gasped. After a moment he said hoarsely, "I -- I'm sure it would. But -- " him tensely. "You know the power lines and the control boards, don't you? You were an apprentice." "I know as much as attendants are taught." Pendergast said fiercely, "Well, will you go along with us? Or would you rather wait until they come down here and drive us away from the lake?" Kreg tried to avoid the burning eyes. He found he had trouble breathing. "I -- okay. I'm not grateful for being exiled. But I think your plan is insane!" Pendergast relaxed a little. "Maybe you'll think differently when you've heard the whole scheme." He turned to Nujent, who handed him the four leatherwrapped bundles Kreg 'has seen before. Pendergast began unwrapping one. "Stan Peters and his tribe dug these out of a mine. They've been buried for thousands of years -- maybe hundreds of thousands." He pulled away the last wrapping and held up an object. Kreg's skin prickled. The artifact was not man-made -- it was too corroded, too caked with sand aggregate. It must have been on New Eden a long time, as Pendergast said. It had been, Kreg guessed, some kind of communicator -- something like the compact twoway radios gravcars had. There was one badly distorted coil of wire in a few heavy turns; other shapes that might be multipleturn coils. Kreg recognized the remains of a variable condenser and things that might be tubes and transistors. Pendergast unwrapped another bundle. Kreg could make nothing of the artifact. Pendergast said, "This was a device for condensing moisture from the air. Not much use here, if the climate was always as dry as it is now -- but better than nothing. The point is -- some race landed here. They may have colonized or they may not. Possibly whole cities will be dug up some day -- old spaceships, maybe. Here's how these artifacts tie in with our plan: by having these things found away from Nose Cone, we can divert enough attention from the fence to let us slip in." Nujent was impatiently offering the other two small bundles. Pendergast grinned, took them and unwrapped one. Kreg gasped with the rest. There was no ne to guess what these were! They hadn't been shaped for human hands -- rather, perhaps for tentacles or some kind of claws -- but they were pistols. The handles were nearly cylindrical, coarsely knurled, and set at an obtuse angle to the barrels. But they were pistols. There was no caked sand on them -- obviously they'd recently been cleaned up with great care. Pendergast said, "We've been secretly hoarding five pistols for years. These two more give us the seven minimum for our plan." Kreg heard his own awed voice. "Will they shoot? Is there ammunition?" Pendergast grinned. "Yes to both questions." VI P reparations took many days. Spring sweltered into summer. Waterholes away from the lake showed new rims of dirt pawed out by hellrunners. What little green the quilltrees had, bleached out to an ivory white and the quills began to curl with dryness. Gravcars flew high over the basin twice. Kreg lived in half dread, half eagerness for the thing he'd agreed to do. At last the time came and he started upravine with Pendergast, Nujent, Peters and two dozen others. The trip was long and hard, but the day came when he lay sweltering under camouflage, peering out at an irregular horizon. He had never seen Desolation Ridge from this side before. The south slope was surprisingly short. When night came Pendergast's men would climb it and look down the much longer slope to South Fence. Before morning they would either have gotten what they wanted from the colony or be dead. Nujent and three others had left them last night, angling east, taking the alien communicator and the moisture-collector. Now that the time was near, the whole idea seemed idiotic to Kreg. How much diversion would Nujent create at most? A few gravcars and lawkeeps, a theoretician or two. And certainly little time would be lost bringing the artifacts to the colony -- probably to Research Center, six blocks from Nose Cone. Still, he supposed it was better than nothing. He squirmed, seeking a more comfortable position. F rom atop Desolation Ridge he stared down at the distant lights. He could locate Nose Cone by the dogleg of the fence, but couldn't make out the huge bullet shape. Inside, the lights of Landington stretched northward; and IF beyond, distant glows marked a few farm-centers. He could trace the course of Thirsty River from its eastern entry at the Sunrise Hills and along its irregular curve through the colony. North Fence, of course, was out of sight, thirty miles away. Pendergast hissed at him. "Nujent must be on station. Let's start down!" Kreg rose to his feet, made sure the small bundle of civilized clothing was secure around his waist, and led off. Though he had seen this slope a thousand times, nothing about it seemed familiar now. He felt like a fly crawling down a well-lit wall. He told himself the sentries wouldn't be able to see him by mere starlight. He stumbled in a dry rill, caught himself and went more carefully. The rest of the party was spaced out behind him. Pendergast whispered, see Nose Cone. As I remember, that warehouse was about two hundred yards west." Kreg said, "A little farther than that. See the next fence light west of Nose Cone? Count four more. That's the warehouse." "Right," Pendergast said. "Where's the gully?" Kreg kneaded his memory. "About twenty yards past the warehouse. That puts it close to a light." He could see a sentry pacing. "Here's the beginning of the gully. We'd better crawl." The gulch bottom was gravelly under his hands. Wings buzzed, barely above the threshold of audibility as startled kinches fled. He could feel the greater moisture of this air. The sentry reached the end of his beat, peered around and started back. How dark did this slope look to him? Kreg, tense to weakness, crawled on. The gully deepened, and he began to believe he might actually reach the fence. He believed, too, that, as Pendergast maintained, there would be a grill and culvert to let water in under the fence. But wouldn't it be a strong grill, permanently mounted? Strange. He had scampered along inside that fence, at that exact spot, in children's games and later paced sentry duty -- and never wondered what happened to the water that came sparsely down the gully in winter. Surely it wasn't wasted. In the colony a buried conduit system collected even drain-off from roofs. He threw a glance at the sentry -- going away now -- and crawled fast. He reached the end of the gully, just at the fence, twisted his head and saw his companions flattening themselves. He paused. Pendergast crawled up beside him. "I told you so! The grill's hinged -- and padlocked!" The bearded man grinned and brandished a small crowbar. T he culvert was tight enough to impede crawling. Kreg had to keep his elbows at his sides and squirm forward. His heart still pounded from the noise the breaking padlock had made. He could hear the men behind him grunting with effort and gasping for breath. The culvert smelled dusty. His hands were raw. He must, he thought, be far inside the fence -- past the big warehouse. How much farther did the culvert go without a turn or intersection? Would a welded grill stop Pendergast? He wondered how Nujent was doing. Suppose the Brains, suspicious, had Nugent and his companions interrogated under drugs? He suddenly became aware of a faint, diffuse glow ahead. Sheer primitive dread of this black pipe made him wriggle ahead like a desperate caterpillar. He got close enough to look up a vertical shaft and see, through an ample grill, bright stars. He went limp, lungs gasping in breath. Pendergast's head bumped into his feet. Would the manhole above be fastened? He squirmed onto his back, bent his body into the outlet, felt about and encountered welded handholds. He went up until he could push at the grill. It was heavy, but it lifted. He hesitated, decided there was nothing to lose and carefully pushed the grill free, sliding it aside. The surface outside sounded and felt like gravel. Cautiously, he thrust his head out. They were in a yard of some kind. He recognized dim shapes as gravcars and parts of gravcars. From somewhere beyond a dark wall came muffled voices. He climbed out. Pendergast was quickly beside him. "Where are we?" "In the back yard of a garage and hangar where Nose Cone's official gravcars are serviced. I've never been here before, but that gate opens onto a side street." Evidently no word of the alien, artifacts had gotten out to the citizenry yet. The few people on the streets strolled casually. He glanced up at the stars. Nearly midnight, he thought. A shift would let out then and the streets would fill. A certain number of citizens would converge on Nose Cone to idle through the museum displays before going home. That might help or hinder. He smoothed his clothes and walked slowly toward the plaza, trying to avert his face when he met anybody. He had to give Pendergast and a few others time to get ahead of him. B y the time he reached the plaza, he knew there was some excitement. People began moving faster and he caught snatches of excited talk. A gravcar rose from the hangar behind him and moved eastward along the fence. Another followed. IF He paused at the edge of the plaza. He did not dare wait any longer. He strode toward Access Three, recognized the attendant there, went past with averted face and approached Access Four. The man on duty was a stranger. Kreg, trying to keep his face calm, nodded to him and walked in. Perhaps four dozen people were in the Rotunda. Some were gathering in a knot. He heard an excited voice say, "Just fell down!" That would be one of his own companions, drawing attention. Kreg hurried around the periphery toward a door marked open and four attendants ran out -- two of them familiar. He shrank against the wall. When they were past he pushed open the door and went through. The down-ramp was empty -- but when he reached the next deck down he met a 'pairbot. The thing's wheels swiveled toward him and the machine said tonelessly, "Visitors not permitted here, sir." Kreg fought down panic. He gave his old apprentice's number and said hastily, "A citizen has fainted in the Rotunda. They'll be bringing him to our infirmary!" The machine was silent for a moment -- doubtless consulting a Brain -- then it rolled out of his way. He hurried past, praying it hadn't flashed a picture of his face to the Brain. But no one came to intercept him. He passed doors curved corridor. It was empty. He paused before the door pushed it open.  No one was on duty -- the standby attendant must be one of the four he'd met. He walked across the compartment, destumult inside him. He sat down in the duty chair before the control console. If the autoviewers' picture of him didn't get the notice of a Brain for a few seconds... He picked up a voice reel that lay as if the attendant had been listening to it and pressed the stud. The narrator's voice said, "Once safely out of the burning forest, Jules Grayson ran toward Highway Fortyseven -- " Kreg's left hand stole toward a switch and flipped it. The room went dark; Instantly he was out of the chair. For the benefit of the audio-monitors, he exclaimed, "Whaf the -- " Then he was at the trapdoor in one corner of the room. He bent and heaved it open; he almost jumped into the opening and put his feet on familiar rungs. Blue emergency lights had already flashed on. His feet touched a deck. Scanners would see him now, even in the dim standby light here. He leaped for a control board -- Nose Cone's main one -- and grabbed for a master switch. It seemed to him he floated in slow motion. Why didn't the bullets come? But his fingers closed on the switch handle and jerked it down. T he standby lights went out -- but blue emergency lights flashed on, as they would do throughout Nose Cone. He heard relays slam home as the main power cut off. Now the general intercom was on and he could hear citizens screaming in the Rotunda, hear attendants shouting in various parts of the giant structure. One attendant called out, "Be calm! Please be orderly and stand where you are. Lights will be restored in a very few minutes." Kreg jerked open panels, seized wires and tugged at them. They cut into his fingers, but some pulled loose -- enough, he knew. He slammed the panels and ran for the ladder. He went up it like a squirrel, bunched himself and shoved the trapdoor open. The corridor door was opening. Kreg leaped toward it, stopped a startled attendant with a stiff left, swung his right hard for the jaw. The man slumped to the floor. Kreg hesitated. Should he damage wiring here, too? No -- let them guess for a while, if the Brains couldn't talk to them! He stepped over the unconscious man and turned left along the corridor. A few 'pairbots and attendants milled aimlessly. He shoved past them and ran for a ramp a fourth of the way around Nose Cone. A babble of talk came from the intercom, some of it hysterical, but not a word from the Brains. Had he guessed wrong? Did they not, after all, have their own secret emergency communication network? Maybe they were just being cool -- assessing information before they acted. He dashed up the incline and along the higher corridor. Citizen's feet blundered about in the Rotunda over his head. He reached the compartment that belonged to Captain Gerlik's Brain; he hesitated from habit, then plunged in. A man stood facing the Brain cabinet. In the dim blue light Kreg did not at once recognize Pehdergast. The bearded exile flashed him a glance, then fixed his eyes on the cabinet again. The alien pistol in his hand aimed steadily where Kreg knew the Brain to be. There was shaky triumph in Pendergast's voice. "Looks as if you did it, Tomsun. I half expected to be filled full of bullets the instant I stepped in here. But there hasn't been a sound." Kreg suddenly realized the compartment's intercom was silent -- the muffled commotion he heard was coming through decks and IF bulkheads. "What happened in the Rotunda? Why didn't everyone runout?" Pendergast chuckled. "Because the access doors slammed shut too quickly. You were right about that." A nd now, suddenly -- making  Kreg jump -- Gerlik's voice came from the cabinet. "Of course. You didn't expect we'd be unprepared, did you? How did you get back inside the colony?" Pendergast snarled, "That's our secret." Gerlik's voice said, "I recognize you now -- Martin Pendergast. You've lasted a long time in the desert." Pendergast said harshly, "We don't want idle talk. In case you're not in contact with the other Brains, every one of them has a pistol pointed at it. You see the one pointed at you, don't you?" 'Yes, I see it. And I see the others. Naturally we're in contact. Some of the weapons look quite rusty -- and two of them look odd. Are you sure they'll shoot?" Pendergast said amusedly, "You don't think we failed to test them, do you? And the bullets will penetrate that thin steel in front of you." Gerlik sighed, "No doubt. But what good would that do you? You can't control Nose Cone. You can't even get out -- the doors won't open unless we open them." Kreg said nervously, "Don't let him stall!" Pendergast said, "In that case. Captain, we simply won't get out. This is the way it'll be: we have certain demands. If you don't meet them -- fast -- we'll put a bullet through each of you, and worry later about the doors." Gerlik chuckled. "How heroic! What are. these demands you're Pendergast's voice shook. "We want weapons. "We'll leave you enough to keep civil order in the colony, but we want the heavy stuff so we'll never have to worry about your intentions. We want metal, tools and medicines. And a few chemicals so we can exploit the land you've dumped us onto. You can keep this strip north of Desolation Ridge, including Sunrise Hills." The Brain didn't answer at once. Then Gerlik said ironically, "Is that all? Why don't you demand Nose Cone? In fact, why don't you just set yourselves up as a ruling class?" Pendergast grunted scornfully. "We don't want the kind of people you want. We don't even want the gravcars, except a few for exploration and emergencies. They won't last forever anyway -- and neither will 'your fissionables. You can go your way and we'll go ours. Unless you bother us we won't even be talking to you!" Another pause, then Gerlik said stonily, "We'd be fools to take your word for that, even if we had to. Fortunately, we don't. Now, we're not going to waste time talking. You're locked in. When you get ready to surrender, we'll give you enough food and water to get back to Lake Salvation. And the next time you come north you'll be killed on sight." a moment, then shot Kreg a glance. Kreg shrugged indecisively. The bearded man took a step nearer the cabinet. "I'll give you thirty seconds by my estimate. If you haven't agreed to our demands by then. I'll put a bullet through you and dicker with the other Brains. We'll kill you all, one at a time, if we have to!" Thonoise from the Rotunda was less now. Pendergast's men must be in control there. Seconds dragged by. Kreg could see Pendergast's lips moving in the count. Finally the bearded man snapped, "Five seconds!" Kreg's insides kneaded. Would the exile leader shoot? Would he himself -- having made the promise? It would be murder -- murder! The jgun went off deafeningly. The front of the cabinet distorted violently and showed a jagged hole. A little viscous liquid oozed out. Pendergast whirled savagely to Kreg. "Which one shall we take next?" Kreg felt sick. His voice was hoarse. "Let's talk to Uncle Ben! He may be more reasonable!" He turned blindly to the door and stumbled along the corridor. The exile aiming a gun at Ben Tomsun's cabinet jerked it around toward them as they entered, then quickly recovered. Uncle Ben's voice said sadly, "So you've killed Captain Gerlik." Pendergast said woodenly, "Right. We don't care who's next!" Uncle Ben sighed. "Violence! Violence! Don't you realize you carry self-destruction in your genes? You demand weapons. How long do you think it will be before you turn them on each other?" Pendergast laughed shortly. "That's no problem of yours. Give us the guns, if you think we'll kill each other. That'll put you back in control!" The voice said, "Why? Why is all this necessary? Why can't you live out your lives peacefully? We could have destroyed you instead of exiling you. Are you trying to prove that we should have?" The lean, bearded exile said, "That's a matter of viewpoint. We intend to live our lives as well as we can and provide better ones for our descendants. You've talked enough. I'll give you the same thirty seconds I gave Gerlik." Uncle Ben said hastily, "We'll yield. The colony comes first with us -- you know that. We must survive to guide it. How many of IF you are there inside Nose Cone?" "That's classified information." B en said in a hurt tone, "I'm only wondering about the logistics. Some of you will have to carry weapons from the arsenal. You may take your pick -- we'll assign 'pairbots to help you, if you wish. Can you all get away in six gravcars? We want to avoid any ter clear the plaza." Intercom loudspeakers suddenly came to life in Uncle Ben's voice, "All citizens and lawkeeps -- move away from Nose Cone. Several armed men in citizen's clothes will be coming out. No one is. to interfere with them in any way. They may take what gravcars they choose. This is important! Everyone must obey." To the three exiles in his compartment, Ben said in a weary voice, "It will be best if you stay here for a few minutes, until the plaza is cleared. Then I'll talk to the people in the Rotunda." Pendergast turned a taut face to Kreg, who said nothing. He felt as if he'd swallowed lead. Could things possibly go so smoothly? The Rotunda sounded quiet, but from somewhere came faint shouts. Outside? Could he hear sounds from the plaza, with the access doors all shut? Probably -- there were still the ventilator openings. Or were there? He realized he couldn't hear the familiar hum of fans. Nose Cone was. quieter than he'd ever heard it. Maybe that was what made him feel drowsy. Then, in the silence, he became aware of a faint hiss. "Gas!" he yelled, breaking toward the door. Already his muscles were slow. He stumbled, caught his balance, shoved the door open. Behind him, thealien pistol went off. Ears ringing, he ran up the corridor, shouting, "Gas! Gas!" More pistol shots made the bulkheads rattle. Exiles staggered from the Brain compartments. He could hear them gasping. He struggled toward the nearest up-ramp, forced his wobbly legs to climb it and pushed the door. A companion'! lurched into him from behind. He stared at unconscious citizens on the Rotunda floor. Then he heard the rumble of access doors sliding open. "This way -- " he blurted. T he outside air gradually cleared his mind. He lurched across the plaza, seeing citizens run away from him. He paused to gulp deep breaths, then ran down a street, crossed an intersection, and leaned for a moment against the corner of the gravcar hangar. Pendergast staggered to him. "Are -- are there likely to be weapons here?" The anesthetic was washing out of Kreg. He took two steps and peered into the hangar. "I think so. In that four-place lawkeep car. And that one." Other exiles were joining them now. Kreg hurried into the hangar, darted looks around and saw nobody. He hauled himself into one of the cars and felt beside the seats for weapons. He found standard bullet-rifles and hyprodermic guns. He swiftly looked in compartments for extra ammunition and found it, then turned on the power. Men wre piling in behind him, Pendergast ran to the second car he'd been shown. It filled, too. The overflow had to seek out twoplace cars ready to fly. Kreg moved his car forward into the open, then lifted it a hundred feetand shot across the fence. He stopped so the others could pull level. Pendergast called out, "I want to send someone after medicines. Is the public infirmary where it always was?" Kreg nodded. "Eight blocks north of Nose Cone!" Pendergast said, "Do you want to take care of that? I'll go try to pick up Nujent!" Kreg nodded and swung the car around. He shot north above the crowded streets. He could hear people shouting questions at him -- obviously they didn't recognize exiles. He dove for the roof of the infirmary, grabbed a hyp-pistol from beside the car's seat, and climbed out. "I'll be quick." He ran to the entrance and down the ramp. The infirmary was almost deserted -- everybody seemed to have run into the streets. He pushed past bewildered personnel, found the stockroom untended and scooped up packets of antibiotics. No time for specialized medicines now. One arm laden, he hurried back to the ramp, got up it without being questioned and dashed for the grav car. He tossed in the packets and jumped in after them. As he zoomed toward South Fence again he realized that the people were shouting more raggedly and that they weren't staring at him, but at something else in the sky. He jerked a look upward -- and abruptly went rigid in the seat. The car shot on unattended. T he sun was near enough dawn so that Main Hull was illuminated. But it no longer hung west of the colony -- it was nearly overhead. And it looked bigger -- so big he could clearly see its oblong shape. One of the men in the rear seats choked: "It's coming down -- " Kreg's thoughts churned. He grabbed for the controls and sent the car shooting eastward toward the Sunrise Hills. The last thing he wanted to do -- if Main Hull had somehow come to life -- was lead it toward the tribe. He craned his neck to watch the bright growing object. IF He saw Main Hull enter shadow. Shortly thereafter a succession of tiny lights appeared and scattered in various directions. They looked like the running-lights of gravcars, high up. Several seemed to be matching his course. He let the car shoot onward for a while, until it became obvious that three or four of the lights were pursuing him, then he swerved. They swerved with him, staying almost directly above, meanwhile dropping rapidly closer. He was among the lower hills now. He saw a blast of light overhead, then a moving streak. A missle! It flashed down ahead of him, hit a slope, and exploded blindingly. There was only a little noise. That was a signal rocket, then. And no doubt it was intended as a warning shot. He swerved again, made sure the car was at full speed and watched with growing despair as the pursuers closed in easily. He thought for a moment of making a stubborn suicidal fight. But curiosity, as much as anything else, made him reach slowly for the controls and slow down. His passengers were glumly silent. And then a greatly amplified voice came from one of the gravcars now circling him. "Don't waste time running, Tomsun. We can blast you to atoms. Surrender and you'll get a fair hearing." Dumbfounded, he slumped in the seat. The voice was Captain Gerlik's! Slowly a thought wormed into his mind. If Captain Gerlik hadn't been destroyed -- if the bullet hadn't plowed through the Brain after all -- maybe Uncle Ben and the others were alive too! T he whole raiding party, including Nujent's small contingent, were locked in what had been Landington's second-largest auditorium. They were given food and water and a portable stove so they could feed themselves. What wirnv dows they could reach were blacked out with heavy steel plates that could not be moved, so that they couldn't see what was going on outside. Something was. They could hear citizens passing, sometimes in quiet-talking groups, sometimes running and shouting. And heavy work of some kind was going on. Maybe repairs were being made to Nose Cone, or to Main Hull. And there were sounds as if considerable cargoes were being unloaded and hauled away by gravtrucks. Pendergast first spoke the thought that may have been in the minds of all the prisoners. "I'll bet you these clothes I'm wearing that they're going to put us in Main Hull and send it back into orbit. Maybe they'll rig TV cameras so people can watch us starve or go mad. I'll tell you this -- if they do. I'll find some way to sabotage the damned thing. I won't have my bones hanging up there as an object lesson!" One of the others muttered, "Your plans haven't worked very well so far." Pendergast grinned. "At least we made an impression. We brought Main Hull down -- that'll earn us a place in history!" Someone said, "The damned thing was supposed to be empty and inert." Pendergast shrugged. "Obviously it wasn't. There were motors in working order, and fissionables to power them. And the Brains were in contact with it -- they were able to bring it down, or at least Gerlik was. If I'd only made sure -- " Kreg said dully. "I khoM the Brains were behind those sensors in the cabinets. The bullet couldn't possibly have missed." Talk dwindled. Some of the men improvised gambling games. Some slept, or pretended to. In any case, days and nights passed. day there was a strange rumbling that shook the building. Pendergast suggested. "Testing out the drive." No one argued. That night dragged by. Then, as daylight filtered through the few cracks around windows, noises came from the main entrance. Pendergast and some of the others were suddenly in a crouch, chairs or other objects in their hands for weapons. But Gerlik's amplified voice came through the heavy doors: "You may come out whenever you wish." Nobody moved for a minute, then there was a rush. Kreg supposed the others were wondering, as he was, what kind of weapons would be trained on them. Someone threw open the doors and he blinked in sunlight. He was perhaps the fourth one out. He stood silent with the others, staring up. Already a mile or so above the city. Main Hull was rising slowly -- with Nose Cone in place atop it! Kreg's eyes darted to where Nose Cone had stood and found the gaping hole. An odd fright lanced through him. South Fence was there and so were the familiar buildings. The absence of Nose Cone was as dismaying as if he'd; awakened some morning and found both his hands missing. He stared upward again and saw a single gravear, tiny with distance, approach the Ship and vanish into it. Long after the reassembled Ship was invisible, he stared up. Then, neck cramped and aching, he lowered his head. He supposed he looked as lost as the men around him. T hey found seven people -- five men, one boy, and one woman -- hiding about the abandoned city. Possibly, Kreg supposed, a IF few others would be scattered about the farms. A few gravcars were left. Except for what little was in the cars' converters, there were no fissionables and no other sources of power. Food supplies were mostly gone, and so was most of the metal and other things. But what was left, though a puny treasure by the colony's standards, was vastly more than Pendergast could have dreamed of capturing. Two days later, when more of the tribe had been flown in, someone found the voice reel with its recorded message. They brought it to Kreg because it spoke his name, and because the voice was Ben Tomsun's. "Kreg Tomsun," it said, "by now you know that New Eden belongs to you exiles. "The Brains, and various other things, were frauds. The intelligences known as Captain Gerlik and the others, including me, were programed in the computers of Main Hull. They were human minds once, but now they're collections of tiny wires and crystals. " A colony ship, being on its own once it leaves Sol, must be ready for whatever it finds. Had we landed first on a fertile planet, the plan would have been different. As it was, we bred tough colonists by exiling hardy, combative people into the harsh environment. "Your erstwhile neighbors of the colony aren't entirely happy about being suddenly evacuated like this, but they'll grow content with shipboard life as their ancestors did. Some day, with luck, they'll be landed on a lusher planet. If not, we'll have to repeat the process of selection. If we -- the Brains and the Ship -- wear out before we find a soft planet, at least we'll have left a few vigorous human colonies. "We leave you to each other, which implies a certain amount of future conflict. But frankly -- especially in view of the alien artifact's you recently dug up -- I envy you. "Please believe that there are sound reasons why we had to act as we did. We have vanity enough left so we don't want you to think ill of us. "Goodbye, and good luck." There were no other messages. Several days later a thought struck Kreg. He sought out Pendergast. "I'll bet you these clothes," he told the bearded man, "that if we dig into that culvert system we crawled through, we'll find sensors of some kind that told the Brains exactly when we came in and where. I'll bet you, furthermore, that if we look around we'll find a dozen other ways through the fence, all set up for us. The Brains wanted it that way. We would have had to be very stupid to have failed." Pendergast grinned at him and declined the bet.  ( Continued from page #) were strangers. Most writers have a great deal of difficulty resurrecting the people who lived originally until 'The End" came off the typewriter and then effectively died, leaving only memories. Whatever the reasons, most sequels are vaguely disappointing. I've seldom tried writing one except in the teen-age category -- and then only once and reluctantly. When I had to do a third in the series, I knew I would do better using a different character and shifting the background ahead in time. Yet when a writer is able to bring off a sequel to a novel and make it stronger and better than the original, the result is a happy event. When all the material we have enjoyed once is made fresh again and is made to grow and become enriched before us, the old book is also made better for us. In that case our pleasure is not merely doubled, but effectively squared. Dragonquest, by Anne McCaffrey (Ballantine, #cX is a sequel that is in all ways far better than the original. That is saying a great deal, since her Dragonflight won both the Nebula and Hugo awards. The new book also has a cover (by the same artist) that is much better than the one on the earlier book and that actually illustrates a scene in the novel. Most unusual. As most science-fiction readers must know by now the original novel dealt with the Dragonriders of a planet called Pern. They were the descendants of Earth colonists who had forgotten their origin and developed their own feudal society. Their world was a good one, except that about every two hundred years it was menaced by a fall of ravening and deadly "threads" -- spores of virulent life -- that were cast across space from another planet, known as the Red Star. To overcome this danger they had bred a native life-form into huge dragons -- creatures that could fly with a rider and could literally breathe out fire that consumed the threads in the air before they could take root. The dragons were telepathic and could be controlled by the rare humans who could commune with them; they were also capable of teleporting instantly from #ne place to another. The story was of the training of Lessa to handle her queen dragon, Ramoth, in preparation for the next threadfall. When disaster struck, however, the people realized that the one Weyr -- dragonhold -- left on Pern was totally inadequate for the job. And Lessa forced her dragon back through time, rather than space, to bring other Weyrs from the past to help -- gaining F'lar as her mate. IF Fine. The story had richness and color. The science was not too believable, since such huge beasts would need a few miracles of musculature and airloading to fly and since almost everything depended on extraordinary psi powers. But as science-fantasy, it was handled well, though the solution to all the problems always struck me as being a mite too pat. Lessa goes back and asks the ancient weyrleaders to follow her through time and they do -- just about like that. All we really got to know of them was their amazing amiability. Anne McCaffrey cannot be accused of not letting us know more about them in the current novel. She has taken a deep and thoughtful look at them and at her whole world and world history as well as at the probable results of this simple solution to the problems of Pern. Her use of what is left us from the first book is a fine example of how to rethink a story. We start with a group of leaders who are completely familiar with fighting threads and whose ideas -- while proven by experience -- are centuries out of date. They are not going to swallow the leadership of the relatively inexperienced F'lar and Lessa for very long -- not when they find that the youngsters are filled with all kinds of silly notions that could lead to the end of the supremacy of dragonriders in general !We also have a bunch of predictions by F'lar that were too simple and easy in the original -- and are now being proved dangerously wrong. And suddenly the history of Pern and its heritage -- apparently almost neglected for millennia -- becomes important and complicated. We begin with a basis for a fine conflict -- but a great deal more is added to heighten it. Before, we had a world of peasants (and a few petty lords) arrayed against the dragonriders. This time we have the texture of a full society. The characters are presented in the context of their varying occupations right through the entertainer-harpists who hold past and future in their hands and what the danger means to each becomes real. Anne McCaffrey's world comes to life. Incidentally, so does the Red Star and its true menace. The life of the dragonriders is explored in depth. We finally begin to know what it means to be linked to a great brute, to sense the character of the dragons (as well as what they came from) and to realize by being shown -- not merely told -- what it must be like to have the intimate bond between dragon and rider ripped away by the sudden death of one. Very little is easily obvious in this novel but all seems obvious when the story ends -- the mark of a first-rate author. The book is not as simple as its predecessor but it remains alive and easy to read. A list of characters and their places in the scheme is included; it isn't necessary but it is a convenience. A map of the planet is also shown, but is not adequate. Not all locales important in the book are marked on it and the whole Southern Continent is not only missing but isn't even indicated by distance or direction. You'll have to remember that Southern Weyr is not connected and is to the south, off the map. It won't matter if you don't try to find it there, however. The map is the poorest feature of this book -- fortunately it is unnecessary. Summed up, this is at least twice, as good a novel as the one that won all the prizes. Given the basic elements of the dragons and their powers, it is consistent, logical and excellent science fiction. Here is a world, a people and a history. There is no too-simple solution this time, but the careful result of what is well prepared. At the end McCaffrey leaves room for another novel to follow, since the Red Star remains a challenge, as does the true future of the dragonriders. There is no need for another, however -- the book is complete. Dragonquest is the best sciencefiction novel I've seen in the first half of #. Don't miss it. A nother sequel that is better by far than its predecessor is borderline science fiction. The story might be considered swordand-sorcery fantasy, but it touches enough on certain intriguing speculative realities to make it acceptable to many sf readers who do not normally look at most fantasy. The Black Mountains, by Fred Saberhagen (Ace, #), is a sequel to The Broken Lands -- and while the first book left me satisfied but not greatly impressed, the new one strikes me as a first-rate job. At his best Saberhagen can write with a satisfying richness and power I had not expected even after reading his excellent "Berserker" stories. Overtly this is another story of a world long after the collapse -- technology has been lost and either magic or a strange sorcery based on shreds of science has taken over. The first book was the story of a band of men rebelling against the dictatorship of the lords who ruled the Black Mountains. This novel takes over after the first success, when the victors suddenly realize the size of the Job they have taken on and realize that they cannot simply remain free, but must actually storm the seemingly impregnable bastions of power -- power they only partly know and against which they have virtually no weapons. From the outset the book breaks away from the obvious. The reader no longer follows the viewpoint of a boy, but that of one of the conIF quered, beaten and maimed leaders of the evil power clique. I won't try to sum up the plot. Some of the elements are familiar enough, but Saberhagen's writing and development of the details remove them from the obvious. And parts of the story are pure joy. There is the control of a djinn (well, call him that, though he's part Yankee mechanic and part Vulcan) who will do exactly what he's told about building aircraft for a wizard who has only a #thcentury picture oT aircraft to guide him. There is a magic healing lake and the Lord Draffut, who presides over it; call him a god if you like -- or try to see what Saberhagen has done with one of man's oldest servants who has evolved in mind and body. And there is throughout a marvelous analysis of the workings of magic and the true nature of demons. The magic and the demons are real enough -- not Just trickery to turn normal scientific gimmicks against a superstitious people. Bits and hints throughout show that Saberhagen is really writing science fiction -- though he conceals his science most of the time. In the end I have to conclude that both the odd handling of a returning technology from tatters of the past and the curious logic lying behind the demonology make the book at least first-rate science fantasy. I suspect there will be yet another in the series, since Saberhagen has only begun to expose his rationale. Still, he has written a good novel by itself and there is a zest and a feel to the writing that made it irresistible to me. There are few writers who can do justice to a really rich set of characters and backgrounds, and Saberhagen has already proved he is one of the best. Unless you can't alide even a touch of magic, don't miss this novel. Start with the first -- if you still can fine it -- but read the sequel in any event. It will stand well by itself. The Tactics of Mistake, by Gordon R. Dickson (Doubleday, #), isn't exactly a sequel. For want of a better word, let's call it a prequel, because it takes place before the novel it follows in date of publication. It uses the background of history of Dickson's "Dorsai" stories -- such as the Genetic General. But Tactics begins at an early period and traces the founding of the world of Dorsai, from which later empires were to hire the marvelous mercenary troops that supported the turmoil of interstellar civilization for centuries. I don't think the book is better than The Genetic General. Both works detail development of .a man who can reshape history and the effect of the effort on the man himself. Cletus Grahame and the later Donal Grahame are involved in equally stirring events and both are obsessed by a vision of the breakup of their form of civilization and the only possible cure. Yet I cannot help feeling that Cletus makes a better hero than his later descendant. Donal had a miracle up his sleeve -- he ould levitate, though he didn't bother with such tricks. Cletus has no such ability. He is limited to what a human being can do at the height of his powers. He has only a vision of what must be and a skill at using the mistakes of others to force victory from them. He is also for his vision, if need be. To me, this makes his struggles and triumph greater. Also, his inevitable girl friend-enemy is a lot more believable than the rather overbred and finicky heroine Donal drew. In this prequel, since characters and background are not exactly those of the Dorsai series, Dickson has no problem bringing new thought and freshness to the story line. The plot is related to the future of the Dorsai stories depicted in the series but it can stand alone. And reading provides new insights. Tactics is a thoroughly good adventure story with some depth. There is no simple conflict with a single menace -- the action takes place against a complex of elements -- good, evil, wisdom and stupidity -- as should be true of any good novel. The lead character is a super-hero who is somehow so intensely human that the reader can readily accept him. To see what can happen to even one of our best writers down the sequel trail, read Poul Anderson's Operation Chaos (Doubleday, #). The novel is the result of putting together four novelettes 'written over some thirteen years. The first part of the book is lovely indeed. The stories deal with an alternate world where science discovered the laws of magic and put it to work in a war even greater than World War H. The magic here is reminiscent of old issues of Unknown, for which these stories would have been written, had the magazine still existed. There is a lovely, wacky logic behind the whole business of using the laws of physics and chemistry generally to support lycanthropy and practical witchcraft in defeating the machinations of the enemy. The three initial novelettes were excellent in magazine form and are still good in the book. The third doesn't quite measure up -- its potential has already been drained by the preceding material. After an afreet and a wild salamander, an incubus is not much more menacing. Anderson seems to recognize this and dredges the devil out of hell in an effort to portray a major menace. And so, in more than one way, the novel itself goes to hell. And something that IF began as brightly amusing suddenly has turned to darkness and horror. Besides, we have reached beyond the limits where we can suspend disbelief. If we accept anything like a classical devil and hell we're not going to be able to swallow the fact that our witch and werewolf can suddenly develop powers to equal the ones that brought war among the Shining Ones and shook the very throne of Heaven. A writer can as easily extend into absurdity as to reduce to it -- perhaps more easily. And that is the final risk of sequelization. Except in very carefully planned series, there are limits to what can be made of the initial situation and anything more becomes absurd. It takes hard thought, excellent craftsmanship -- and restraint -- to turn out a sequel better than a good original novel. But the few successes still make science fiction a great field to be in.  The blow never came. They were past the cliff. a glimmering mass of air that spilled over the lip of the cliff and tumbled toward the broken land. He had often seen such sights from afar but this was the first time he had been in one. Like every winged creature on every world, he normally knew bettef than to fly into the currents on the lee side of a mountain. The downdraft caught him and Garp in its grip and threw them violently at the rocks. Garp howled, dropping his sword, which spun into a fang below him. Each member of the pack played frantically with his antigrav. But the air tossed them about like wood chips in a raging river. The down( Continued from page #) fall was too powerful to be beaten by the puny devices of man. Schadow made no attempt to outfly the draft. Putting his arms next to his body in a swept-back position, straightening his legs, hitching forward at the waist and angling his aching wings close to his sides, he formed his body into an elementary airfoil, skidding through the air at an angle. He closed his lower lids against the vicious winds and through them saw the fangs, the whole' scene faded by the protective tissue so that it seemed that it happened in the depths of a faintly pink sea. Yen's corpse was first to hit, smashing spread-eagled atop an altar of rock not two meters from the base of the cliff. Two others hit farther out. Silently, explosively they touched the ground, their screams and the crashes coming weakly through the winds after the fact. A fourth hit a shallow pool, sending up a shower of scummed water and insects. A fifth had slowed himself a bit with his antigrav and it seemed to Schadow that his screams must have continued for a second after he had hit. Garp was a fast learner. On seeing Schadow he had copied the airfoil design, getting added spoiling from his antigrav. But he was too late and too low. The false Buddha smashed into a jagged outcropping of volcanic glass, beheading himself. The pink-tinted ground was getting dangerously close.Schadow felt the skeletal claws of oblivion drag along his spine. Then he was out of the draftfall and in a turbulent but strong wave lift beyond. Extending his wings, he soared into the sky and opened his lids to its eternal blue. He looked down. Scattered on the ground were the twisted and broken forms of the fangs. Somehow an antigrav unit had been torn loose from a corpse and, free of its weight, clattered along under the force of the draftfall until clear and then shot through the air toward the base, perhaps on a homing signal. Three of the corpses, he noticed, were also beginning to move across the rocks, being pulled by devices that had outlasted their owners. The skyhunter still floated where he had left it. Did he dare to hope? Though he was unarmed, he settled into a straightaway glide toward the beast. It was obviously as near exhaustion as he but appeared unhurt. There was no reason for it to stay away from its sea hunting -- unless if was waiting for him. It could be purposely baiting him, he told himself. Vengeance was not solely a human passion. He slowed and circled before its massive head. The amber eyes watched him. Slowly, carefully the tentacle moved toward him. He stayed in his tight orbit, not moving away. The auxuliry eye at the tip of the tentacle opened -- the tentacle itself touched his arm. No poison cells opened to destroy him. The tentacle remained soft and gentle. Laughing, Schadow grabbed the tentacle and the skybeast, tender as he remembered another of its kind, grabbed him. It placed Schadow atop its bladder, where he could sit and rest. He didn't mind the fact that the skin was almost unbearably hot from the sun. He laughed again. The beast moved its tentacle joyfully and the dragon-amphibians that guarded the seacliffs screamed at them as they moved through the sky and over the sea, once-enemies, now-brothers.  Top-flight science fiction and fantasy from    Eight mind-bending tales conceived and executed by the richest imaginations in science fiction: Arthur C. Clarke Robert Silverberg, Cordwainer Smith, Fritz Leiber, Poul Anderson, John Campbell, Jr. and Jack Vance. A#S #c Ten dazzling stories that explore the complex relation between modern man and his machines. The authors include Lester del Rey, Robert Silverberg, Fritz Leiber, James Blish, Brian Aldiss and other top-notch names. A#N #C A pair of scientists challenge the time barrier and fall into a horrible, mind-twisting trap. "Rene Barjavel has feeling for the fantastic -- knows how to build a suspenseful story." Enter a terrifying world of tomorrow where perversity is encouraged and insanity is enforced -- a world whose beginnings are even now stirring! A#S #c Available wherever books are solder or write: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #I # What is it? A black dot, circle, sphere, neutron, eye pupil, tunnel opening, planet, hole, cosmos ? Depending on your perspective, knowledge, imagination, the answer can be simple or complex, commonplace or extraordinary, definite or infinite. We'd like to introduce you to some uniquely gifted authors who have created an exciting, mind-stretching literature. Writers who can look at a dot or a pebble and see a universe of sub-atomic particles. Who can speculate on the incredible number of interdependent cells that make up a human body and envision .whole planetary life forms interconnected the same way. Who forecast things like nuclear power, supersonic jets, computers, space probes, and moon walks long before they happened. Science Fiction authors are writing tomorrow's history today. Just I will bring you any three books described on this page. With them comes your enrollment in The Science Fiction Book Club, the frontier of the future. Join today. The coupon tells how. with trial membership Science Fiction Book Club #-S# Please accept my application for membership and rush the # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me just # plus shipping and handling for all #. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin "Things To Come" describing the two monthly selections and other book bargains. If I do not wish to receive one of the two monthly selections, or prefer an alternate or no book at all. I simply indicate so on the form provided. I pay only #, plus shipping and handling for each book I take. (Occasional extra-value selections are slightly more.) I need take only # books in the coming year and may resign any time after purchasing # books. introductory package. I may return it in # days. Membership will be canceled. I will owe nothing. MR. I If under #, parent must sign above. I I I I I  I Office use only #. Science. Fiction Hall of Fame I. #  winners." chosen by Scl-Pl Writers of America. Ed. Robert Sliverberg. Pub. ed. # #. Sturgeon Is Alive and Well... #I Nebula Award novelette "Slow Sculpture" plus # other gripping stories by Theodore Sturgeon. Pub. ed. # #. Prelude to Mars by Arthur C. Clarke. Two complete novels. Sands of Mars and Prelude to Space, # short stories, by the scl-fl "colossus." Pub. ed. # #I . Alone Against Tomorrow by Harlan Ellison. The Held's most honored writer plunges into # dark and wonderful dreams of tomorrow's alienation. Pub. ed. # # #. Driftglass by Samuel R. Delaney. # short stories including # Nebula winners. Probing remote corners of the galaxy. Includes undersea adventures of an "amphiman" in title story. #. Down in the Black Gang by Philip Jose Farmer. The Hugo award winning author dazzles the imagination with this prize collection featuring super-intelligent aliens expert at outwitting their human counterparts. #. I Sing The Body Electric! by Ray Bradbury. # major pieces -- Bradbury's first collection in five years. Pub. ed. # #. Childhood's End by Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth, wildly fantastic! Atlantic. Pub ed # #. The Robot Noveb by Isaac Asimov. Two of the master's greatest creations, the emotionally charged "The Caves of Steel" and "The Naked Sun." Pub. ed. # #. Slaughterhouse-Five by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. The Incredible odyssey of Billy Pilgrim lost in the hideous moments of existence. An extraordinary tale of time travel. Pub. ed. # #. A Time of Changes by Robert Sllverberg. of strange planet where human beings must despise themselves and "#" and "Me" become filthy obscenities. #. Stand on Zanzibar by John Brunner. Life in U S. # years from now Hugo Award Winner. # pages. Pub. ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted In U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in Canada. Printed in U.S.A.  Patterns of Chaos Is there a career struggle to save our environment? Here is a new book filled with timely, realistic guidance that can suddenly open up new career horizons for groping young people -- a challenging now field in which they can find a sense of commitment, by Odom Fanning, Editor-in-Chief of the White House First Annual Report on Environmental Quality Others are developing for the immediate future. Most young people are unaware of these new opportunities and of how they may build a rewarding career in this fight to save our planet from the threats of pollution, the existing and emerging career fields opening up in environmental management. It points out what kinds of personnel are at present, and will be, needed in the various facets of the field, and it discusses the basic information needed by anyone seeking a career in one of these areas. For each career field, the author defines terms, lists major activities, describes job duties, pegs the field on the career ladder, describes education, gives earnings and working conditions, projects employment demand to #, and lists major sources of additional information. If you are undecided about which career you'd really like to make your life's work... or if you possibly already have prerequisite educational credits for one or more of important book you can read at this point in your lifebefore you make a career choice you may regret later on. # East # St... New York. N.Y. # Gentlemen: per copy. I enclose  in full payment (please add #(i for shipping) . Name. (please print) Citv Statp Zir Code Januaryfmbntary # Vo. # I, No. # ssuo # Cflr Jakobson, editor Lostor dol Roy, Poaturo editor Judy A ynn Boniamin, Managing editor Prone L Roggori, Art Director Jay Tuniek, Cireulation Diroetor L C. Murphy, Subseription Diroetor Jack Gaughan, Assodato Art Director NOveLeue tributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Ma'tn offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. and Readers write -- and wrongs Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I was happy to see Robert F. Young's Abyss of Tartarus in the Oct. '#I issue of If. For those of your readers who may not know this, the story is actually a continuation of Starscape with Frieze of Dreams from Orbit #. Both stories are fine and I hope we hear more of Starfinder from Mr. Young. I was also wondering if perhaps a new area of fandom is opened by Mr. Young's "telehieroglyphics." It seems to be just the sort of thing fans enjoy playing around with; I would appreciate Hearing from other fans about this. Finally let me compliment you on your excellent magazine. You may, of course, print my name and address. Tzvi Langermann # Greenough St. Brookline, Mass. # Dear Mr. Jakobsson: As a reader of both Science Fiction and Fantasy for the last # years, I feel at least partly qualified to judge stories in both fields. I have read all the hardcover books in three libraries plus practicallyevery paperback since #. I am not a fan nor do I collect the magazines. The sole purpose of my purchase and reading of a book or magazine is for the enjoyment it gives me. I am not extremely critical of the author of a story or his writing style -- he can miss a few points as he goes along or fail to tie his story together as he should. I do become irritated by the deliberate inclusion of a charactor in the plot who has no bearing on the story and is obviously there to fill out wordage. There is one type of science fiction and fantasy I have tried to like but cannot. This is the so called "new wave" that seems to consist of a veritable flood of descriptive words containing all foam and no beer. Only twice in # years have I quit reading a story in sheer disgust and both times the writer was "new wave."  wish to compliment you on your last issue of If, October #. A better cross-section of topnotch writers would be extremely hard to find in a bimonthly magazine. I enjoyed each and every story although the story by Young required a knowledge of a previous story on the "What" to be completely comprehensible. I would never presume to tell you how to edit a magazine. I am not a frustrated critic, writer or editor and this letter is to let you know there is one of your readers who thinks you are doing an excellent job, and will continue to do so in the future. One addition I do recommend is a subscription blank with every issue. You just might get more subscribers. Dale Fortson A bilene, Texas # Dear Mr. Jakobsson: The dictionary defines 'fine arts" as arts purely esthetic or expressive: painting, drawing, sculpture and architecture: sometimes including literature, music, drama, and the dance. How about let's call or classify fiction, drama, art, poetry, and sculpture the "life arts," since they all simulate life. The life arts have a strong unifying basis for the classification, something in common: they all copy, simulate, or imitate life. In the case of fiction and poetry, it is accomplished indirectly through word symbols: in the case of drama, it is done either way, through words if read, or live on stage (directly): pictures and sculpture, of course, are also direct. It is easy to see that architecture, music, and the dance do not simulate life, though the latter two may be expressive of it. The fine arts as a class is a very broad, diffuse classification, and they ( Please turn to page I # ) WE are proud to be able to announce forthcoming publication of Isaac Asimov's first new novel in # years, in three fascinating installments scheduled as follows: (#) Galaxy, March #on sale January #. (#) If, April # -- on sale February #. (#) Galaxy, May # -- on sale March #. Why this unique arrangement? Well, rewarding and exciting, so special in every way, that we were determined to bring it to our readers somehow. But since Galaxy and If are now bimonthly, to serialize this astounding novel in just one of them would have meant that we could not beat the deadline set for hardcover publication by Doubleday. Fortunately, sections I and # of the novel are quite complete in themselves and closely fit the "hard science" coloration favored by Galaxy. On the other hand, section # of the noveltold from a different viewpoint -- is perfect for the generally more fanciful mood of If. Hence, with Dr. Asimov's blessing, we decided to split his new work between the two magazines -- thus making sure we get it to s-f readers by the required date and in the proper setting. If your dealer does not handle one or the other, you can order single copies of either Galaxy or If directly from us. Similarly, if you subscribe to only one of the magazines, you can order single copies of the other directly from us. We pay postage. In any event, don't miss this masterpiece of a noval by the great and gifted Isaac AsimovI I T he night was shattered by a hundred copper candles, pressor beams bearing down, feathering the mighty bulk of a ship on to the center of the city, bruising the very bedrock with resonant thunder. Green and violet, the lace traces of Yagi beams stabbed sharp disruption into the fabric of the buildings, and the quick flick of lasers struck fires that completed the destruction. The city of Ashur on Onaris, razed by the blistering savagery from above, writhed in agony and prepared to surrender. Resistance was suicide -- and even acquiescence held no guarantee of survival. Perhaps it started as a whisper in some white wilderness -- the sick spite of a broken body, cradled in cold, crying futility unto a futile wind: In the uncertain shadows against a broken wall the figure of a young man lay in fetal position, only partially aware of the devastation raging around him. Such consciousness as he bore was almost entirely consumed by a battle of equally desperate proportions deep within his skull. Perhaps in the sordid cells of some inhuman inquisition a spirit snapped, the mind mazed not by the searing steel, the nibbling nerve -- but by a vaster wound: The man moaned softly to himself and rose to a sitting position, cradling his face in his hands. A Yagi beam, green and malignant, sliced the end from a nearby building and the area was deluged with falling bricks. He sank back, unable to fight. Perhaps some maimed martyr, crazed upon the cross, held up his head and cried unto the heavens: And was answered never. The ultimate betrayal. The immaculate blasphemy... The young man climbed to his feet and started slowly and still unseeing across the littered square. His uncertain path took him nearly into the beam of a probing Yagi, but fate and guesswork diverted his feet. He blundered finally into the wall of a building, recoiling with a bloody forehead to sink again into the timorous shadows of a ruined doorway. Bron! Bron,for pity's sake, why don't you reply? He made no answer. The blood from his forehead trickled down his face and ran salty into his mouth. Soon the shock and the pain forced him from his reverie and pressed on him a brutal acIF ceptance qf his. environment. For the first time he showed, an awareness of the holocaust. He looked out across the flickering waste of the tormented city, agony and comprehension filtering across his torn brow. Bron,for Gods sake answer, T he sky flared suddenly green and hideous as the Yagi's beams found and detonated an unknown arsenal. The blast from the explosion damned the building as a sanctuary and only instinct flung him clear. The walls between which he had been sheltering broke apart and the door against which he had pressed his back seconds before was buried deep under a murderous pile of masonry. Bron, are you receiving me at all? "I hear you." In clear ground on the square he stopped and forced himself to speak, his voice ragged with undertones of near hysteria. "Where are you? I can hear you, but I can't see you." Jupiter! The voice was aghast. No! You have to be joking! Six years and a quarter of the Commando budget were needed to place you where you are -- and now you feign amnesia. Bron, you must be joking! "I never felt less like joking. I feel sick. Who are you -- if you're not imagination?" Steady, Bron, steady. The big blast must have given you a concussion. You re in a bad way by the sound of things.  had to use the semantic trigger to pull you out of that coma. Is there nothing you remember at all? "Nothing. I don't know who I am -- or who you are. You seem to be speaking in my head. Am I having hallucinations?" Far from it. This all has a rational explanation. Only your memory is faulty. "Where am I?" In the city of Ashur on the planet Onaris. It's under attack by Destroyer ships. "And you hear me. How do you hear me? Where are you?" Jupiter! This gets worse. We don't have time for explanations now. First you have to get clear of the square and find a place to rest. I'll explain later if your memory doesn't come back. For the moment you'll have to take what I say on trust. "And if I don't?" Don't dare me, Bron. There's too much at stake. If you could remember what you were -- and why you are there -- you'd know better than to ask the question. Don't make me show you why. Bron pressed his head into his hands for a full half minute, then straightened. "Very well. I accept that for the moment. What do you want me to do?" Move out of the city center. The damage won't be quite so bad on the perimeter. On the other side of the square, as you now face it, is a thoroughfare. Follow that until  tell you where to turn. # stay with you. Bron shrugged and followed the instruction, fully aware now of the blistering fury shrieking out of the sky. The ship above was obviously preparing for a landing, ploughing for itself a stabilizing furrow deep in the flesh of the city and savagely eliminating all resistance in the areas surrounding. The relative absence of population in the attack area suggested that the atrocity had not been unannounced. A rising scream to the east told of where yet another spatial dreadnought had decided to make planetfall. Something about the pattern stirred a thread of Bron's memory, but its pursuit eluded him. way around the edge of the square, finding an unknown talent for making the maximum use of cover against the devastating Yagis. On the far side he found the thoroughfare, once one of the proudest streets of Ashur, now a hulk-lined valley of debris, rimmed with fire. "You there in my head -- are you listening?" We re always listening. "How do you listen?" Youve a bio-electronic transducer implanted in your brain. Our equipment is such that we can hear you and speak to you no matter where you go. Bron absorbed this in silence for a moment. "Who are you?" Associates in war. I'm Doctor Veeder. Does the name mean nothing still? "Yes." It will come to you. And Jaycee and Ananias. We three will be your unseen companions, as we have been in the past. We're all part of the same team. "What team?" Special Assignments group attached to the Stellar Commando. "Ah -- " You recall something? "I recollect vaguely that I was a Commando -- but not here. Terra I remember, Delhi and Europa. I can't recall anything after I left Europa." That's significant. It was when you left Europa that you started these special assignments. I don't wonder your psyche chose that point to start forgetting... Watch out! Bron moved. The cautionary word and his own instinctive reactions coincided completely. A probing Yagi beam shattered the road surface inches before his feet. The backwash of the flux discharge caught him as he turned, flung him sideways, stunned but relatively unhurt. As the beam sliced on through a yet unbroken colonnade IF he regained his feet, still shaking with reactive shock. "You -- " Whafs the matter, Bron? Are you hurt? "You saw that Yagi coming. How?" Bron was breathing hard. Yes,  saw it. Vve been trying to break this to you gently, since the relearning of the facts may be something of a traumatic shock in your present condition. "Spool the riddles! Can you see me, also?" Not see you -- we see through your eyes and we listen through your ears. Day and night we watch and listen to every facet of your experience -- Jaycee, Ananias, and myself That's our job. We can also speak to you and you cant shut us out. Our voices are transmitted directly to your brain. We can do a few other things, too, but we'll go into those later. For now, just follow my instructions. We'll find you a place to rest. "Very well." Bron accepted the order with resignation. He was in no fit state mentally to compose an opposition to the voice within his head. Physically he was drained and shaken and desperately in need of rest. He withdrew into himself and followed the instructions mechanically, gradually wending his way into darker corners of the broken streets and away from the focal point of the attack. Finally the voice seemed to cease. Unable to proceed farther of his own volition, he kicked a few bricks from under his feet, sank down to the dusty ground and slept. #OWS Bron now?"Tlof the trio, the speaker was the only one in civilian clothes -- a simple jet-black sheath which detracted nothing from her femininity. Her strong features were framed by raven hair garnished with self-luminous star-spite spangles. Her full lips rivaled her deep eyes in expressing the contemptuous force of her character. Her question was addressed to the Medic-commander who turned away from the ranked screens. Dr. Veeder, tall and graying, bore the air of a man who had seen all the worst of life and learned to come to terms with it. Even at the end of his shift at the screens his crisp commando uniform, like his brow, showed no hint of other than authorized creases. "He's still out, Jaycee, but as far as I can judge it's a perfectly natural sleep." He glanced back at the monitors, examining the pulsing waveforms. "It should be safe to wake him in about an hour." "Damn him. If he's loused up this project I'll give him such hell he'll wish his mother had been a compulsive virgin." "Don't climb on his back too heavily when he first wakes. He took a considerable blasting last night. I don't think he'll appreciate the subtlety of your advances -- and anyway, this happens to be an, exercise in cooperation, not coercion. Ride him the way you usually do and you could very easily put him on the defensive." "I'd make sure he didn't survive it." "Agreed -- but that's not the point. He has to survive if we're going to get the information we need." She accepted the point sullenly. Veeder left the screens and reached for his cloak. "He's all yours, Jaycee. I'm going to get some sleep. Call me if anything unusual happens." "Engaged." Jaycee slipped into the padded control couch in front of the screens and reached back to draw the curtains partly shut to kill the reflections in the cubicle. Then she began to run a routine check of the controls to ensure that she was familiar with their standing state. The third member of the trio prized himself loose from the seat of the computer console as Veeder departed. Throughout the preceding conversation he had remained silent, his eyes never once leaving Jaycee. Now he came to stand directly behind her, watching the manifold screens as she trimmed and adjusted their symbolic legends. The bright tabs of his uniform proclaimed him a full Command General and contrasted oddly with his apparent youth, his flaxen hair and pallid complexion. His eyes were curiously, bright and he moistened his small, pink lips continuously with a small, pink tongue. "Doc's right, you know, honeybitch," he said quietly. "No good lashing into Bron while he's in that state. He won't understand it and he may well go on the defensive. You know what a cuss Bron can be when he turns awkward." He moved forward and leaned against the back of the control couch immediately behind her. His hands hovered only slightly above her shoulders. "Jet off, Ananias," she said tiredly. "When I want your ideas on how to handle Bron I'll ask for them." "Sure, honey-bitch. Play it your way. I just thought that as you couldn't have an emotional workout on Bron you might be looking elsewhere for relief." His hands moved on subtly to her bare neck, lingering. She froze. "What you askin' for, Ananias? A couple of broken wrists?" "Honey-bitch -- you would not dare try that on me." His voice held an undercurrent of danger. "In three seconds if you don't take your hands away." "You're teasing, honey-bitch." She moved like a cobra, but he anticipated her action and had the additional advantage of operating from a standing position. He IF broke her hold and pinioned her hands against the couch. "My God, you tried it, too," He sounded a trifle shaken. "You're a vicious devil, aren't you?" "You should know, Ananias. You been around long enough." "Too long, perhaps. That's how I know the time to proposition. You can't live through Bron for very long without breaking." M omentarily her head turned to the big screen on which, when he was awake, the scene viewed by Bron's eyes was presented. Currently it was blank. The regular rhythm of Bron's breathing and pulse came through a muted speaker against the muffled background rumble of warfare. Various monitors picked up the sounds, separated and analyzed them and presented scan traces of their findings. In electronic representation was displayed as much information about one living individual as it was possible to transmit over the precarious transgalactic bio-electronic transfer link. A stronger tie, however, existed between Bron, the agent, and Jaycee, his operator. This was the rapport formed by the close coupling of two minds sharing a common experience however differently presented. When agent and operator were psychologically matched to form one complementary personality, the coupling was tightened even further. Sometimes intolerably. Jaycee faced up and tried to look at Ananias. "You know what that does to me, don't you -- livin' through him?" Ananias kept control of her hands warily. "Sure. That's how I know when you're ripe for an emotional climbdown. Some time you've got to give way -- else you're going to crack." "And you hang around hopin' to collect whatever it is I have to give?" Her voice was edged like a razor. "Sure, honey-bitch. I'm a connoisseur. What you have to give is something of an acquired taste. You've a streak of tigerine spite which has no business this side of hell and you have to work it off on somebody. Well -- a man could get addicted to that sort of thing." "And you think you're deservin' of special privileges?" "I always give good service." "Look, Ananias, I admit you once caught me off balance after Bron had wound me up. But that's only because you happened to be the first livin' thing down the corridor. It could have been anyone." There was a long, uncomfortable silence. Then: "You don't mean that, honey-bitch." "Like hell I don't. When I get that high I don't care what I find as long as it struggles. I don't respond to propositions. I'm not looking for a lover -- I'm lookin' for somethin' to help me catch up on a spell of suspended livin'. What I find doesn't need any identity -- better he doesn't have any. No matter what, there's only one person I grapple with in the darkness." The impasse between them was broken by the urgent summons of telltales on an auxiliary board. Ananias left her and was at the board in an instant. "Radio room, Jaycee. Report from the Antares transmitters. Come in, Antares. Ananias on line." "Hullo, General! There' ve been new developments on Onaris. To prevent further bloodshed, Onaris radio has just broadcast their government's acceptance of the Destroyers' unconditional surrender terms. Effective opposition to the Destroyers has now ceased." "Good. Did the Onarian government put out an appeal for outside help?" transmitters as soon as the Destroyers entered the system. They couldn't expect to be heard except accidentally, of course, if there happened to be a starship within their range." "Did you make radio contact with them?" "No. Our instructions were to the contrary. They could have no idea that our monitoring chain had picked them up." "And nobody else answered their call?" "No one we could detect. Cerwere clear." "Keep monitoring the emergency frequencies. If anyone shows sign of answering their appeal -- jam them. It's imperative that nobody interferes before the Destroyers have taken what they want and pulled clear." "Understood, General. We'll report again if the situation changes." Ananias broke the connection and turned back to Jaycee. "So far everything has gone as planned -- except for Bron." He frowned at the still vacant master screen. "The Destroyers have attacked, Onaris has given way, the entire Commando fleet is on yellow alert -- and the most expensively prepared Commando agent in history occupies a strategic position in the middle of a raped city, snoring his bloody head off." "Not exactly your night, is it, Ananias?" "Don't grieve for me, honeybitch. You know I always win in the end. And if I have to wait a little, then the spoils of battle become all the more enjoyable." "You're a Godlost weaklin', Ananias. Unprincipled, but a Godlost weaklin'." She turned once more toward IF the screens, this time purposefully studying the traces which told the details of Bron's existence. Ananias moved back behind the couch. He knew better than to attempt to interfere with her now, as she adjusted the microphone and herself and began to reestablish the rapport she had with a sleeping Commando agent half a galaxy away. "Perhaps in the sordid cells of some inhuman inquisition..." "Damn you for a bitch," said Ananias quietly; II H IS rest was broken by the insistence of a voice... , the mind mazed not by the searin steel, the nibblin' nerve -- but by a vaster wound... "Stop it -- stop saying those things." Get on your feet, Bron. Did you think you deserved a rest day? Bron stirred in the ruins, cruelly aware of the cold in his bones. The first pink of daybreak washed against the shattered skyline. His head ached and the wound on his temple was stiff with caked blood. With difficulty he rose to his feet, shivering and trying to orient his thoughts. "You in my mind -- you're not the one who spoke to me last night." God -- you should be so lucky as to forget me -- The voice trailed into spiteful incredulity. No, Bron. This is Jaycee. Despite the restraints imposed by the electronic transfer the voice was clearly feminine. Doc tells me you took a blastin'. How much do you remember? "Almost nothing. What's all this 'sick spite' and 'God is dying' routine?" Hell, Doc was right. You are in a bad way. That phrasin' is the semantic recall trigger geared into your subconscious. In any condition of lowered consciousness, from sleep through to coma, if you hear that you'll have to respond. The wordin' is meshed with the hypno-character synthesis which was impressed on your mind. "This gets insaner every minute. What's this hypno-character thing?" An artificial character pattern impressed by ultra-deep hypnosis. It's the character you have to be to pass the Destroyers. "But I don't even know my own character, let alone the synthesis." The fact you respond to the trigger means the synthesis is firm, You'll react in the right way to a proper stimulus, even if you don't understand your own actions. In a way your memory lapse is fortunate. It'll lessen the conflict between the synthesis and the real you. God! It's going to be well worth bearin' you believin' yourself to be a saint, Bron. The sarcasm in the voice bit deeply into his mind. ls that what I'm supposed to be, Jaycee -- a saint?" Rather a sort of electronic Tro jan Horse. But get to your feet, wee work to do. The Destroyers have landed three ships around Ashur and their first move will be the imposition of Destroyer Law. That means a complete ban on all movements and absolute obedience to their orders. We have to get you to the place you should have reached last night. Bron searched his mind for the things he should have known but had lost. "All this is way beyond me, Jaycee. I'd at least like to know the cause for which I'm being martyred." Ah, thaTs better -- a touch of the old Bron irony.  dont have time to give you much now. Briefly, Canas Destroyer squadrons have increased the scope of their destruction to a point where they are threatening the Rim Dependencies themselves. We cant police all that volume of space -- and theyve destroyed thirty-seven known planets in five years. Our only hope of stoppin them is to trace their baseworld and launch a massive attack on that. ThaTsyour job, Bron. The trick is to get you aboard a Destroyer ship in space for long enough to enable us to discover where the baseworld is. "And that's quite a trick, I imagine." If only you remembered! Its taken us six years to get this far. First we had to build the giant transmitters in Antares to handle the communications transfer link between us and you over transgalactic distances. It took two years of intelligence work to decide on the best way to attack the problem -- and nearly a year developing your cover. And lastly there was you -- the kingpin of the whole operation. "Tell me about me, Jaycee." Some other time, when Tm feeling really bitchy. Chaos, Bron, thaTs your forte -- the sort of chaos that reaches out and affects everyone and everythin it touches. ITs the one part of your own character weve left unattenuated by the synthesis. It may be the one trait which can bring this mission through. Bron considered this in silence. Then: "What do I have to do first?" Weve got to fit you into the background so when the Destroyers find you, they wont suspect you dont belong. We had a comprehensive cover worked out, but you should have been in position last night. "Why should the Destroyers want to find me?" Because you re substitutin for a man they came to Onaris to find. Look, Til have to fill in the details as we go. But listen to me, Bron -- this is important -- play the game exactly as we give it to you and rely on the synthesis for conIF tinuity Don t try any fool stunts of your own -- if you do you re certain to get killed. Weve lost more than enough men already just placin you where you are. "Which way should I go?" T he sky was gradually growing lighter with the muddy grays of dawn and the vaguest hints of color were substantiating the shadows. Get out on the thoroughfare and get me a few place names. Once we can pinpoint your position # have the computer give us a route. Then find a mirror and let me look at you. You're goin to need to be right in character if we're to get away with this. Bron shrugged and surveyed the broken walls which had given him partial shelter for the night. Part of the building farther back was relatively undamaged and it was to this he turned. The building proved deserted and the haste of the panicky exodus was underscored by the pattern of disorder in the dim rooms and hallways. He finally found a mirror-covered door. He opened and adjusted it to make maximum use of the available light. "So that's me -- " Don't you even remember what your face is like? "I couldn't have called it to memory. Do I fit, Jaycee?" Not good. You'll have to clean that cut on your forehead. We can't risk sepsis this early in the game. "I'll clean it somehow. Anything else?" No -- except that I can't get used to your looking like a damned angel. That's the psychosomatic effect of the personality synthesis. "And what do you propose I do about it?" He was irritated by the malice in her voice. Don't spoil it, Bron. It'll wear off all too soon. No psychosynthesis yet devised could obscure the real you for very long. He found street names for Jaycee to work on. His wound he cleansed with water he found in a cistern and he brushed away as much of the caked mud and blood from his cloak as he could manage. Then he returned to the mirrored door to study the effect of his ablutions. He could not remember donning his clothes, but they consisted of a simple cloak of coarse weave and equally spartan undergarments. About his neck hung a well-worn crucifix of gold on a fine gold chain. A Bible in one of the ample pockets of the cloak appeared to complete his worldly possessions. As Jaycee had said, his face had acquired a pious intensity -- it almost shone from the youthful lines. He studied his features carefully, remembering them vaguely, yet not quite sure how different they had been prior to the hypno-synthesis. He was quietly proud of the strength and character he found in the jaw and brow, but something diabolical seemed to lurk behind the eyes -- in depths that at once frightened and fascinated him. When youve finished your Narcissistic orgy rve got the route for you. Jaycee's voice came so unexpectedly that it made him jump. He had the feeling she had been watching him in the mirror through his own eyes for some time. The tightness of the surveillance irked him. Something deep inside him clawed for freedom, like a wild beast confined in too small a cage. His expression must have given away his unvoiced emotion, for she picked up the thought with uncanny accuracy. Don't say it, Bron. You're going to have to live with me inside you for quite a whiles It's a situation I've come to enjoy -- bein' underneath your flesh. "Bitch." She laughed. Yes, I'm that, Bron, and most of the other things you've called me in the past. But now you'd better start travelin'. I'll give you spot directions from whatever landmarks we can still identify. Her instructions directed him toward a region where the receding night was being shredded by the mottled gray-green erosion of refraction-scattered sunlight. Here even Onaris's famous polychromatic dawn seemed smeared with daubs of blood. The ruins were unnaturally still and apparently devoid of life. Instinctively he felt to release his sidearm. Instead his fingers touched only on the Bible in his pocket; the discovery brought a twist of taut amusement to his lips. He looked at his hands. The nails were satisfactorily long and the muscles and flesh were hard. He said, "Jaycee, I know what I have to fight with, but what am I supposed to do with the book?" For once she did not answer, though he felt she was listening. Her silence brought a harsh realization of the seriousness of his situation. On this mission the synthesis and the book were all the weapons he was going to get. buildings drifted in broad fronts across his path and Bron trod cautiously, fearing that his sudden emergence from a veil of smoke could lead to his being shot by some observer moved too suddenly to action. Nevertheless he obeyed the instruction implicit in Jaycee's directions and kept strictly to the middle of the roadway, making no attempt at concealment. "It's too damn quiet, Jaycee. Where are all the people?" Total evacuation, Bron. The Destroyers have imposed an absorb IF lute clearance of a five-kilometer radius around each landing site. Turn around in a full circle, will you. I want to take a check on your position. Bron turned slowly on one heel, following the skyline with his eyes and dwelling on any features of the broken terrain that might be construed as landmarks. "On course?" Near enough. Just clear of the Destroyers' five-kilometer perimeter, but still in the evacuated zone. Your main danger is the Ashur police, who may come looking for looters. Stay in the open and keep your hands empty and in view. "Shouldn't I be going toward the ship?" You re jokin! Cross that perimeter and you re a dead man. The only way anyone gets through there is if the Destroyers choose to take him. "And you think they'll choose to take me?" Were hopeful. You re to impersonate a key Onaris technocrat. You were due at the Ashur Seminary last night, but the Destroyers struck before we could get you there. "What the hell would the Destroyers want with technocrats?" They take anything thaTs any value to them -- brains, slave-flesh, metals. And as many items of higher technology as they can find. ThaTs why they put down an entire fleet. They strip a planet of anything useful they can carry before they destroy it. "That doesn't make sense, Jaycee. No, but it's fact. "Slave-flesh and metals I can understand, but not technocrats. They can surely train enough of their own." They appear to be concentrating on ones with a certain specialty -- authorities on the patterns of chaos. Seems as though Onaris had one of the top men in that field. "I thought Terra had all the top men." ThaTs a classical myth. In fact, the reverse is true. When the starships started the Great Exodus from Terra they took an unusually high concentration of very high IQ emigrants with them. Its not rare on a settlement planet to find two or three families still breedin' an almost pure genuis strain. Onaris had one family of decidedly genius strain -- the Halterns. You re cast as Ander Haltern, direct ninth descendant of Prosper Haltern. AndeYs probably one of the galaxy s top men on the patterns of chaos. "What happened to the original Ander?" On Terra, cooperating with us. We took him off secretly six months ago. The storys been patched to support your appearance in Ashur just now. By the way, by Onaris custom, ones familiar name is not on official record, scf you re still at liberty to call yourself Bron. I advise you to do so. That split-second s hesitation in respondin to an unaccustomed name could be crucial in an emergency, Bron suddenly stopped. "Voices, Jaycee." Where? "Beyond the smoke in front." Yes, I hear them now, A police roadblock, I should imagine. Definitely native Onaris-Ashur accent, "You can hear all that?" When necessary we can apply a lot more gain to the signal from your ears than you can. Youve got to go through there, Bron. Let the synthesis take over your responses. Dont try to override it. If you do you re likely to come out with a few pure Bron-type answers and reactions -- and that could lead to a fairly rapid termination of the project. A S HE cleared the smoke he could see what had once been a line of stone-clad buildings, now a mere complex wall, castellated by fire and blast. The road continued haphazardly through the ruins and a barrier had been set across the track. On this were posted men in the green uniforms of the Ashur civil police. "Stay or we fire." The sudden voice was electronically reinforced. Bron halted. He saw no possibility of avoiding or withdrawing from the encounter. The sand exploded just before his feet, defining a safe distance for his movements. An officer threw a voice amplifier into the intervening space. "Approach the apparatus and speak." Bron moved cautiously towards the amplifier, his hands upstretched and his eyes on the unwavering stubs of the weapons centered on his body. He inwardly saluted the police technique of maintained distance. Even had he possessed his full Commando equipment he could not have hoped to get a gas slug or shock pellet through to the barrier without drawing fire, "What are you doing in the evacuated zone?" The amplifier impressed the officer's tones with a sinister metallic burr. "Trying to get out." Bron's natural resistance to authority produced a spontaneous reply that forestalled any answer the synthesis might have prompted. The amplifier carried his words back to echo quickly against the broken walls. "I see." The amplifier was critical and unamused. Fool! You askin to get killed? Jaycee's anger burst in his head so clearly that he found it nearly impossible to believe that the amplifier would not pick it up and hurl her words across the interIF veiling space. Play it his way, you stupid cretin! "You heard the evacuation order last night. You know we dare not offer any resistance to the Destroyers?" Yes, prompted Jaycee. "Yes," said Bron. "Then you know our instructions are to shoot on sight anyone found in the zone. Have you any reason to offer why that instruction should not be carried out?" The men at the barrier sighted their weapons and prepared to fire. Jaycee's voice was a flurry: Pve checked his rank, Bron. Hes a senior enough animal to be able to exercise discretion -- and soft as hell, else he wouldn't bother to talk. Ride the synthesis, damn you! "I am Ander Haltern, called Bron, late to adopt my residency at the Seminary of the Sacred Relic." With a shock Bron realized that it was his own voice speaking, but the words and the tone were derived straight from the post-hypnotic suggestion. Intrigued, he let his mind and tongue freewheel. "How else can I reach my destination, save through your barrier?" "Haltern?" There was a moment of consternation among the police at the roadblock, and the amplifier was swiftly muted to mask a hasty conversation. The Haltern name obviously carried a great deal of weight. The officer spoke again. "Can you prove your identity?" "Is that necessary for a Haltern in Ashur?" The synthesis tightened his tone into intolerant sharpness. "You have a letter of introduction, perhaps?" "No letter." A temporary anger welled up inside him and he made a mental note of the shortness of Ander's temper. "What does a Haltern want with paper?" "Then any other means -- " "If you can't take my word, you must come and see for yourself. Here is all I have." With a savage gesture Bron stripped the cloak from his shoulder and let it fall to the ground. His undergarments followed, and then, completely naked, he stalked back to the edge of the smoke and waited. Well clear of the amplifier he spoke softly. "Hell, Jaycee, this is weird. It's unnerving not to know how you're going to act until you've done it." But you see how the synthesis works, Bron. It responds with a complete takeover of your reactions when a direct stimulus such as a question or a situation demands it. "If it includes an impromptu striptease every time I'm asked for my identity, this is one synthesis that has definitely no future." Jaycee was highly amused. There's no tellin what you may do. Ander Haltern is a highly individual character. But what worries me is your rapid relaxation out of the synthetic character. It suggests the synthesis isnt set any too firmly. # have to put Doc on it when he comes on duty. The officer, bearing only a sidearm, came forward and turned the clothes over with his foot. At last he found the Bible and picked it up. Then he held out his hand. "My apologies, Bron Ander Haltern -- but you see, we cannot be too careful. These are very critical times." His eyes wandered apprehensively in the direction of the Destroyer ship. His face was almost gray with worry. Bron dismissed him curtly. "Can you arrange transport to the Seminary?" "Of course, Bron Haltern. I will see to it immediately." The officer returned to the barrier and Bron turned back to his clothes. He could hear Jaycee's outward amusement as he retrieved the garments and solemnly dressed. ## just occurred to me. Jaycee was triumphant. Perhaps thaPs how you re supposed to use the book, Bron. You take off your clothes and sulk. He said, "Damn you, Jaycee," contriving not to move his lips and in a mere breath of a voice which the amplifier could not possibly pick up. Jaycee responded with a peal of laughter. "You heard that?" asked Bron quietly at the next opportunity. If I hadnt -- Vd have guessed. But you dont need to vocalize. We can pick up subvocal speech just as well. You should be able to communicate with us in full view of other persons without their being aware of it. "You've got all the damn answers, haven't you?" More than you re aware of, Bron. And on this assignment Vve got you dancin like a puppet, because you dont remember just how sharp some of those answers are. Ill T he scudder placed at his disposal was a typical heavy-duty vehicle, brutally functional and highly articulate. Under cover of the jet scream and out of direct sight of the driver, Bron practiced subvocal communication. "Can you read me, Jaycee?" The action was no more than thinking the words and allowing the muscles of his throat to perform their customary actions but without the aspiration necessary to produce a sound. Loud and clear, Bron. "What was it about the book that convinced him I'm Haltern?" # think because its an old Terran Authorized Version -- very IF rare on a dependency world. Only an intellectual like Haltern could be expected to understand it, "Bit of a queer bird, this Haitern character." cretist -- probably one of the best alive today, "What's a syncretist?" One who works across the channels of scientific specialization rather than along them. To qualify for mastership you need at least ten honors degrees in unrelated subjects and the proven ability to think freely across the lines of the various disciplines as well as with them. The scudder banked swiftly and Bron, restraining an instant of vertigo from sudden awareness of the unexpected height they had attained, looked down at the vast edifice below them. "What's that, Jaycee?" Ashur Seminary, More correctly, the Seminary of the Sacred Relic of Ashur, That's where the Destroyers will expect to find you. The scudder burned its way down through the clear air of the morning and drove to an unpolished finish before the great portals. Bron Ander Haltern alighted, obeyed the synthesis-keyed instinct which forbade him even to acknowledge the driver's presence and ascended the great steps of the Seminary. As he did so he felt the mantle of the synthetic character closing around him, entrapping him in the shadowy web of somebody else's mores and reactions. Again the beast that was in him clawed out piteously for freedom. Nobody awaited him. The vestibule led to a corridor and then to a farther door. Beyond this he found a vast and vaulted hall lit only by the sunlight entering through strangely stained and patterned windows. He stopped suddenly, entranced by the space and unity of the edifice. The great columns that rose to support the beautiful roof were clustered with carved figurines and statuettes depicting scenes which casually had no meaning for him. The walls were similarly complex and ornate, obviously endowed with the same rich symbolism. The synthesis guided his feet across the floor and down the central aisle between stone blocks arranged as though for seats. At the far end, between white alcoves set into the wall, stood a bare dais. Behind it was a shield emblazoned with the sun-disk symbol of Ashur and centrally in the shield, nailed cruciform, hung the sacred relic -- a replica of a small, brown, furry quadruped. Around the shield hypnotic stereo-color tablets spelled out the single word: "Is this some kind of church, Jaycee?" Some kind. But not the sort you find on Terra. Not quite that sort of religion either -- though they do claim their God is the same. Bron turned and studied more closely the figurines on the columns closest to him. He heard Jaycee's sharp intake of breath. Move closer, Bron. This is interestin. "What is it? A monument to De Sade?" No. An expression of faith. Mortification of the body for the edification of the soul. In the Seminary the cultivation of mind and spirit is all. The body is regarded merely as a vessel of atonement for the weaknesses of the other two. "Jaycee, that's sick." Its their way of life. The columns are supposed to depict the classical two hundred and fiftysix modes of penance for weakness. "After some of those penances there wouldn't be anything left to be weak with." Subvocalize, Bron. Theres someone coming. B ron scanned the hall swiftly, but no one was yet in sight. His gaze fell again on the sacred relic, whose button-bright and twisted stare suddenly typified the distorted philosophy portrayed by the figurines. The act triggered something in the hypnosynthesis and against his conscious will he dropped to his knees, hands clasped before him, in an attitude of prayer and supplication. The footsteps closed behind him. "Ander Haltern?" "The same." Bron rose and turned to face the questioner. "What will be your familiar?" "Bron." The preceptor -- the hypnosynthesis identified the other's function -- was lean, gray, ascetic and unwelcoming. "We expected you yesterday, Bron Ander Haltern. How do you answer?" "Ashur was destroyed by the raiding and I nearly with it." "You allowed the trivia of the times to come before your duty?" "Trivia? You damn -- " Bron overrode the acquiescent synthesis. Steady, Bron. "Bron Haltern, having achieved mastership, you have the privilege of choosing your own penance for absence. What do you offer?" "What do I answer, Jaycee? The synthesis gives me nothing." Subvocally he could form the words faster than he could have spoken. Stall him. This wasnt programed. Tm contactin Ander. "Ashur is nearly in ruins," said Bron aloud. "The Destroyers are in control. Outside these walls nobody has right of movement or even right of life. Do you still deIF mand panance from one detained by such events?" "Bron Ander Haltern." The preceptor's face was grave. His eyes were tinged with a depth of irrationality. "You disappoint me. That is not the reaction one has learned to expect from a Haltern. Come, make your offer -- or I shall impose one of my own." The shirt, Bron. "The shirt," said Bron. The preceptor's eyes widened abruptly and his jaw dropped. "Forgive me! I meant no disrespect to the Halterns. There is no need -- " The synthesis swung Bron wrathfully. "Are you questioning my decision. Preceptor?" "Of course not." The preceptor's eyes mirrored agony and embarrassment. "It's just that the act does not warrant such a level of penance. I must ask you again, are you sure you're, prepared to accept the shirt?" "Gladly." The word rose spontaneously from the synthesis. The preceptor shrugged resignedly. "Very well. I shall conduct you to your cell. The shirt will be delivered to you there." Bron follow the preceptor out of the hall by a minor door, then through a series of corridors, each similarly ugly and depressing with a severity of line which made no concession to the human need for contrast and relief. The occasional doors were dark, square and massive, with small, high, shuttered windows. "Jaycee, this is more like a prison than a seminary." On Onaris there's little to choose between them. Education is inseparable from religion and religion from austerity and disciplined penance. The only thing about the system that stands in its favor is that it produces some remarkably good scholars. Twist"I can imagine. And what the hell's the shirt?" Don't know. It was Ander' s idea. He seemed to think it appropriate to the crime. He's getting quite a kick out of the idea. The preceptor reached a door and halted. The proximity lock responded unhesitatingly to his fingers and the heavy wood swung open. Bron, though accustomed to a lifetime of utilitarian Commando accommodation, stood appalled. The cell he was invited to enter was a featureless stone box. The only attempt at furnishing was the provision of a solitary coffin-sized slab of cut white stone, which presumably had to serve as table, chair and bed. There was nothing else at all. A solitary eye of unalterable light stared down harshly from the ceiling. The aperture through which it entered was encircled by the gilded message: The preceptor was watching his face, but Bron managed to remain impassive. "In a few minutes, Bron Haltern, I will send you the shirt. I suggest you don it immediately, then you will not be unduly late in conducting your first tutorial." "Is the penance then not to wait until the evening service?" "No. You have earned greater respect than that. I think your absolution will be more perfect if the work of the shirt is well advanced by the time you bear witness to the assembly." Under the influence of the synthesis, Bron bowed his head and waited until the preceptor had departed. "That man's not only a sadist, Jaycee, he's also quite mad. He took in absolutely nothing of what I told him about the destruction of Ashur. His world begins and ends in a small closed circle of Seminary rites. How long do I have to stay here?" Not long, I guess. The Destroyers always know where to look for the people they want. They must put in some damn good intelligence work before they strike. "Am I the only one they're looking for?" We think so. Theyll otherwise take mainly slave-flesh. They're obviously colonizin'. Human flesh is a lot cheaper and more versatile than machinery on an undeveloped world. "Interesting point. The fleshships were not unknown even in the days of Terr an space colonization." Bron broke off as a knock on the door heralded the arrival of a student bearing the shirt. The student slipped the garment from its filmy wrap and left it on the slab. As he passed and bowed, his eyes bore a look compounded both of admiration and profound sympathy. B ron examined the shirt cautiously. It clung to his fingers as though each fiber of its wool-like texture were possessed of microscopic barbs. With swift decision he stripped and donned the garment -- and momentarily its hugging softness was almost luxurious. Its elasticity drew it smoothly over the contours of his body. A few seconds later he was genuinely praying, perhaps for the first time in his life. In something akin to mortal panic he tried to tear the shirt away from his body, but the myriad barbs of the fine, white fibers were firmly engaged in his flesh. There was no way of removal save that of tearing away the skin. The burning itch and panic drove him to the verge of hysteria before he managed to clamp a cold composure on his reasoning. "Jaycee, this is diabolical -- " Jaycee laughed. It's apparently the modern equivalent of the pilIF grimes hairshirt. Contemplation, concentration, and suffering enrich the mind and ennoble the spirit. And lets face it, Bron, both your mind and your spirit were long overdue for somethin drastic. Vm quite lookin forward to the improvement. "Damn you for a bitch, Jaycee. One day I'll make you regret that." A knock sounded at the door. It was the student again. "Mastership Haltern, sorry if I disturb your devotions. The preceptor requires me to conduct you to the Syncretics unit." "It's no disturbance," said Bron. "I've already made my dedication clear." Outside the door the youth put his knuckles to his forehead. "You may lean on my arm if you wish. Mastership." His eyes strayed to the shirt, the collar of which showed still above the cloak. "Thank you, no." Bron declined as the synthesis demanded he must, but from the look in the youth's eyes he knew that the shirt was infamous. As he walked, Bron could hear Jaycee cataloguing the way. His own consciousness was almost entirely absorbed by the unremitting and painful awareness of the shirt of penance and he was in no condition to master detail. At the door of the Syncretics unit the student saluted with knuckles to forehead as if in momentary prayer, then departed. Bron touched the proximity lock. After a few seconds' trial the lock responded and he entered the laboratory to give his first-ever tutorial in syncretics. This time he was impressed. The array of teaching and computing equipment must have cost a fortune. His audience of a hundred, all working in solitary cells, had instant on-line access to the computer as well as real-time monitoring of their own responses. The performance-analysis display panel was a masterpiece of ingenuity and enabled him to correct in seconds the failure of a student to grasp a single point or a single word. Faced with a specific demand, the stored knowledge in the character synthesis produced all the information he needed. Yielding to the pressures of the synthesis, he allowed his hands to set up channels and controls, not properly understanding his actions until the instant they had to be performed. Then, as he followed the movement of his fingers, he began to understand the instruments before him. His lecture, too, came readily to mind and he spoke first and comprehended later. Such concentration served to divert his attention from the shirt, but the irritant pain of such an intimate and widespread penetration of the skin was a distraction that permitted hiip only two states of mind -- extreme concentration and abject despair. Moreover his body was reacting violently to the attack with an allergic rash that spread soon to his face and hands and produced an unwholesome puffmess around his eyes. Ask Ander how I get the damn thing off." I already did. Short of extensive surgery there seems no way of removin it prematurely. The fibers are histamine sensitive. When the allergic reaction raises your body histamine to a sufficient level they will quit of their own accord. "And for God's sake -- how long will that take?" Depends on the susceptibility of the individual. Could take up to thirty-six hours. "I see," said Bron grimly. "Have you asked friend Ander what proportion of its wearers die of shock?" Yes. About ten percent, Bron. If wed known earlier wed never have let you put it on . " "Whose side is Ander on?" Ours apparently. He said the choice of the shirt was to keep you truly in the character of a Haltern. We overlooked the fact that most of the Haltern descendants are mad. T he tutorial lasted five hours, after which Bron returned to his cell. Agonizing though his hours in the tutorial had been, the work had at least partially taken his mind off the shirt. The leisure period offered no such distraction. The allergic reaction of his body was assuming alarming proportions. Muscles in his arms and legs were beginning to react with pain and stiffness which told of the spread of toxins throughout the bloodstream. Occasionally he thought he detected the first fringes of delirium in his brain. For want of alternative, Bron lay painfully back on the stone slab and let the bright, unwinking eye of the solitary light glaze his deliberately unblinking eyes. By varying the range of his vision he could or on the point-source of light or past both to infinity. As he neared the auto-hypnotic state he experienced slow alternations of light and darkness until finally he drifted into sleep...in the sordid cells of some inhuman inquisition a spirit snapped... "Spool it, Jaycee! What's up?" Knock on the door, Bron. Two men outside. "Damn! I can't go on much longer, Jaycee. If this thing doesn't give up soon. I've had it." Docs all but taking Ander apart try in to find out what the shirt's made of. The job isn't easy because native Onaris biology is obviously a field of its own. IF Bron swung his feet painfully to the floor and attempted to stand. The stiffening ache in his joints at first defied his efforts, but gradually he persuaded his limbs to give him the necessary support. Like a sick man, he stood. The two men were dressed differently from either himself or from the students. Their light-yellow tunics were obviously designed for ease of movement. "Mastership Haltern, it is time for you to take the place of witness at the evening assembly." The synthesis flashed sharp disapproval into Bron's mind. "Since when was it the custom to escort a penitant to his place?" The phrase was pure Haltern intolerance. "The preceptor insists -- as an assurance of spiritual discipline." "Discipline comes from within not by imposition. The preceptor overreaches himself. I shall make my own way." The wardens appeared momentarily uncertain of their position. Bron took advantage of the fact and steeled hirhself to walk ahead, shored up primarily by the synthesis-generated anger which fumed at the indignity of having a man's most private hour of fortitude supervised by wardens. He entered the church and crossed to the center aisle, turning toward the sacred relic behind the dais. Some compulsion greater than his own will forced him to kneel and look upward at the creature's twisted stare. His knuckles sought his forehead. After several minutes thus he attempted to stand, but his stiffened legs defied him and he twisted and fell. Immediately the wardens were upon him. They carried him to one of the alcoves flanking the dais. Here rings had been provided to hold a man's arms in such a position that even if he fainted, his body would still remain erect. To these he was fastened, facing down the body of the church. bly arrived his consciousness slipped several times into a delirious half-sleep that was more like a lapse in time than any human condition. When he awoke, the assembly of staff and students had mainly entered and taken their places on the blocks of stone. The preceptor entered last, clad now in ceremonial dress like some majestic cleric. He spared Bron and his misery only a fleeting glance. The service was long and tedious, full of responses and intricate psalms, and the sermons were dogmatic beyond reason. Bron, striving to combat the gulfs of blackness that interrupted his thinking, tried to gauge from the expressions of the assembly the true feelings of the individuals toward his plight. The dominant look was of interest and participation. Only a very few, like the preceptor, were twisted with the basic streak of sadism. For the rest it was part of the accepted norm. Jaycee's voice broke in with sudden urgency. Bron, this is what weve been waitin for. We can hear the sound of heavy scudders movin in. We can expect the Destroyers at any moment. As if to verify her words, a long explosion rumbled through the corridors and resonated in the cavity of the hall. The preceptor faltered only slightly in his prayer, then continued. A second explosion, more staccato this time, shattered the inner door. An immediate panic was stilled as a group of armed soldiers rushed through the smoke-filled doorway. They deployed themselves professionally across the end of the church, waiting only for some act on the part of the assembly to cause them to open fire. The preceptor's words dribbled to a halt as he was faced with a reality he could not finally deny. "Who are you? What do you want? Don't you know this is dedicated ground?" His voice echoed down the long hall, gathering timbre from the reverberations in the high, vaulted roof. It was unthinkable to him that his world should be violated. The leading soldier spoke. "We 'ave Destroyer business 'ere. Where is one they call Ander 'altern?" "He is here, making penance. I forbid him to speak." "Quiet, old fool. It is I who give the orders." To emphasize the point a multiple gunblast ripped out three of the stained-glass windows. "Let 'altern come out or it will be men we split, not glass." "I warn you -- " The preceptor still had not grasped that his position was lost. "This behavior is sacrilegious. I demand that you leave." A single shot through the head toppled the preceptor from the dais. His removal from the scene was so sudden that it was almost anticlimatic. "Ander 'altern." Someone in the assembly at the back was being forced at weaponpoint to mark the quarry. The remaining raiders covered the assembly. Wisely, no resistance was offered. The Destroyer's firepower was, as ever, more than adequate for a massacre. "Are you 'altern the syncretist?" The Destroyer leader stopped before Bron in the alcove, frowning at the manacles and the lymph-soaked shirt. "The same." "What they trying to do, kill you?" The question was rhetorical but carried a refreshing draught of sanity. The Destroyer released the rings holding Bron's wrists and motioned him forward. Bron took one shocked step before his IF knees buckled under him and he pitched headlong to the dais. In delirium and with clouding consciousness he sought to raise his body and stand, but his arms, too, were now unequal to the task. He found himself helpless, looking up at the twisted mockery in the stare of the sacred relic. "Jaycee -- what the hell -- is that thing called?" It's a Terran child s play thin . A replica of somethin called a bear. "Does it always have those eyes?" No. A child must have played with it until its eye-buttons came loose. Its said to have once belonged to Prosper Haltern, founder both of the Onaris colony and of the Seminary. "Oh God -- the eternal joke -- " You re delirious, Bron. Lie quietly, fm sending for Doc. "Damn you, Jayqee -- don't you see it? Gladly my cross I'd bear -- damn -- crosseyed bear -- " Stop talking, Bron. You re shoutin' aloud. You're... But Bron was almost laughing as the great darkness closed down. IV B ron, this is Doc. Listen to me carefully. You're on the Destroyer ship. They brought you aboard while you were still unconscious. I gather they've brought your temperature down and a Destroyer medic has given you a good examination. Trouble is he's come up with the wrong answer. He's decided to give you an injection of an antihistamine -- in fact, he's preparing it now. Whatever happens, you mustn't have that injection. "You got something useful out of Ander?" Yes. The shirt is woven of crel, an indigenous Onaria fungus spore notorious for its parasitic attachment to human flesh. The body's only defence is histamine. If that damn fool reduces your body histamine before those spor filaments have quit, they're liable to germinate into mature crel nodules underneath your skin. These are about the size of a Terran cherry and about two hundred thousand of them developing in your flesh would literally tear you apart. "What do you advise?" Find a way to avoid anything being done until the shirt has quit of its own accord. It's your only chance. Is the shirt still firm? With an effort Bron propped himself up on one arm and explored. "It's coming away around the edges. Doc." Good sign. It should peel fairly rapidly once it starts to go. Another fifteen minutes could see you clean. Can you hold the medic off that long? "I can try." Bron scanned the room quickly. Its sole door was fitted with a standard proximity lock keyed to operate only to the finger responses of those entitled to enter. Laboriously he climbed from bed, accommodate his action and collapsed in a heap on the floor. He dragged himself to an instrument stanchion and looked for tools with which to attack the lock. The only thing relevant was a surgical laser. Unsteadily he took it to the door. The lock pattern was unfamiliar to him and he had no way of locating the critical sensory elements. A very real chance existed that interference would immobilize it in the open rather than the closed position. Finally he settled for merely shorting out the input leads. With a bit of luck the lock's malfunctioning would appear to have been an inherent fault and not the result of tampering. He carefully fired the laser into the input channel. The laser hole was almost invisible but the result was an untidy short-circuit that seared the finish on the door around the lock. Fortunately the damage looked sufficiently amateurish to let him remain in character. Doc, who had been following the exercise through Bron's eyes, was critical. How long will that hold them? "Depends on how anxious they are to get in. Dismantling the lock would take about twenty minutes. but the door could be cut away in seconds if necessary." Bron lurched painfully back to bed and began working his fingers cautiously between his arm and the shirt. He soon found that the shirt was losing its consistency and shredding away in the manner of cotton wool. The underlying skin was red, swollen and moist with lymph, but otherwise undamaged. As he worked at it, the fibers began to come away more easily and almost half the garment had been removed before he heard noises at the door. The first sounds were those of someone baffled by an inability to operate the lock. Soon came the sound of metal applied to the door as if to force it. Then silence for a period. Then action again and the lock was cut away with a heavyduty laser beam. propped on one arm, was engaged in removing the last fragments of the shirt from his breast. As far as he could judge, the filaments adhering to his back had largely rubbed away on the bedding. The medic examined the lock with some consternation, at the same time glancing across to Bron and the fragmented shirt. Since there was no obvious connection between these two things, he left the lock to a technician and came across the room. IF "You got it away, eh? How you manage tha'?" "It's histamine sensitive." The swelling in Bron's throat had raised the pitch of his voice to a querulous piping tone. He lay back with a show of exhaustion he did not have to fake. "Why you do it, eh? Why you put tha' damn thing on?" Bron searched the synthesis but found no answer, so he scowled and said, "The shirt is an accepted penance in the eyes of the church." "Bloody funny church -- damn masochis's, all of them. Are there no psychiatris's on Onaris?" "Certainly. I myself have a doctorate in psychiatry," said Bron Ander Haltern tiredly. "But what makes you think that ills of the spirit are curable by techniques designed to remedy mere malfunctions of the mind?" The medic refused to be drawn into what he regarded as an idiotic argument. "Turn over and let me see tha' back." Bron turned. The medic cleaned his back with spirit and wiped away the remaining fibers of the shirt, retaining some for closer examination. He found the crucifix around Bron's neck, looked at it curiously, dropped it back. "I'm goin' to give you injection. With luck your skin should clear in a few hours. You'll find the side effec's of the drug will make you li'le silly." "Accept or refuse. Doc?" Risk the injection now that, the fibers have quit -- but if you get a swelling yell like a fiend until they cut it out. The medic turned to get his tray. As he did so Bron could see past him to the doorway. Standing just inside, a silent witness to the proceedings, was a tall, graying man of exceptional physique and bearing. He was clad immaculately in the uniform of a senior Destroyer officer, though his precise rank was not apparent. His attention was completely upon Bron, with a depth of concentration and comprehension that made Bron feel that the hypno-synthesis was a very shallow camouflage for concealing his true identity and purpose. "Who's that?" asked Bron aloud as the medic returned. "Colonel Daiquis'." Both the medic and Doc replied as nearly simultaneously as possible, but Doc Veeder's identification carried undertones of awe. What a piece of luck, Bron. Martin Daiquist is Canas righthand man. Bron withdrew his arm from the vicinity of the hypodermic gun. "I wish to see someone in authority. I was brought here without consent and I have no wish to remain. I demand to be returned to the Seminary." The medic looked down pityingly. "Tomorrow someone will explain why tha's impossible." His fingers gripped Bron's arm like a steel vise. "From now until then you do exactly as you're tol'." Past the medic's shoulder Bron could see Colonel Daiquist examining the door around the lock. Then he saw him straighten suddenly and look round as if searching for something. The hypodermic gun was back on Bron's arm, the muzzle pressing hard as the molecularized drugs were introduced through his skin without puncture. Almost immediately Bron felt a heavy dreamlike state come over him, bringing a touch of euphoria that left him quite without care or qualm as Daiquist picked up the surgical laser and took it to the door. P erhaps on the altar of some Satanic mass the screaming sacrifice, shackled to the stone, twists in torment. The descending dagger tears tendon and ligament but leaves alive the cowering consciousness... "Who's that?" "Tell me who you are or I'll go tb sleep on you." Dont do that, Bron. Tm having a hard enough task getting through to you as it is. Tm Ananias. "Go away. I don't know you." Dont you remember me at all? Dont you even recall that Ananias is a liar? "Ananias is merely a name. I can't remember a thing. You must be the joker of the pack." Frequently, Bron. But right now Tm far from joking. What drugs did the medic give you? "Should have been antihistamine and antiallergen." But you didnt see the labels on the phials? "No. He preloaded the hypodermic. I want to go to sleep." Not so fast. From your poor reaction to the semantic recall Fd say the medic included a measure of a hypnotic alkaloid, possibly a truth serum. "Damn you, let me sleep!" I will -- soon. But while you re sleeping I think someone may attempt to question you. Daiquist s not too happy about you for some reason. We cant rely on the synthesis holding out under intensive psychological probing. If the situation turns critical we intend to use one of our corrective circuits to throw you into a state of catatonic withdrawal. Theyll soon get you out of it, but it should serve to confuse the situation. The effort of conversation had pulled Bron into a lighter level of sleep from which he now found himself unable to relax. He tried to open his eyes, but the effort nearly defeated him and he was unable to maintain them open. In any case, the room was completely IF dark and there was nothing whatever to see. His mind settled down to a level of activity characteristic of a dream state but which left him fully conscious. This limbo of thought between sleep and waking was positive confirmation of the introduction of a hypnotic drug into his system. He likened his feelings to those of a man floating on an air raft borne over slow waters down a long tunnel of darkness. The almost complete absence of tactile sensation, coupled with the free-flowing volume of his thoughts and heightened imagination, produced all the imagery necessary to give substance to the illusion. He even thought he could hear the echoed muttering of the tide, disturbed by his passage, lapping against tunnel walls... Shock! Even in his drugged condition his whole nervous system reacted fitfully. "Ananias, for God's sake -- " What is it, Bron? "What's that noise? Sounds like turkeys gobbling -- or water rippling around a stone."  hear nothing but ship noises. Sure its not imagination? "Damn you, no. It must be coming over the bio-electronic transfer link." Not possible. We re transmitting nothing but my voice. The computer s monitoring the output from the Antares transmitter to you and that doesn't show any variation except for the usual star static. "Well, I'm receiving something else and it's unholy -- like the sound of liquid geese. Is it possible for anything else to get impressed on your transmission -- something you couldn't detect?" Only if it came from a source below the Antares reception threshold. But there's nowhere it could come from. There's only the void on the other side of your present position. You're way out on the rim of the universe. "Can they increase the sensitivity of the Antares receivers?" Not without rebuilding half a planet. Can you still hear it? "It's still there, but not so clearly. The ambient ship noise seems to be increasing." Correct. Sounds as though they're preparing for lift-off. I doubt you'll get any visitors until the ship's in free space. If you want to sleep, this'll be a good time. "Ananias -- " Yes? "Did we ever meet, you and I?" We know each other rather well. One day you'll remember. "And Jaycee -- I know her?"  can't answer questions about Jaycee. That's classified. "I just wondered what I ever did to get paired up with a vindictive bitch like her." B ron attempted to relax, to throw himself into less conscious depths of slumber, but each time his mind washed up on the same dark, tunneled tide and stopped short at the same reactive fear. The sound of the rising pattern of activity in the ship gradually overlaid the phantom goosemutter from nowhere and drove it below the limits of discernibility. The rising crescendo of the pressor beam projectors began to vibrate the whole fabric of the ship and the beats of their misresonance sang like some awful electronic choir. Then he felt the lift-off -- only a few meters at first, while the pressors were trimmed to take the weight of the ship evenly and without straining the vast structure. The breathtaking thunder of the planetary drive boomed in above the pressors' song and added a quarter gravity of horizontal component of movement to the pressor's lift. Some loose instruments somewhere in the room clattered into a tray, otherwise inside the ship these maneuvers were deceptively smooth and gentle. Outside the ship it would be different. Bron winced at the thought of white-hot exhaust gas razing a kilometer-wide weal across the scarred face of Ashur and of pressors leaving a hundred-kilometer channel of pulverized buildings and hopelessly compressed soil before the ship abandoned planetary support and began to claw its way through the troposphere by thrust reaction alone. As the successive phases of takeoff approached, the pitch and timber of the engine voices altered, died, were replaced by other sounds. Soon even the scream of the atmosphere on the hull tailed away and the ship settled to the vibrant thunder of the main gravity drive, which would be its prime mover until it was clear of the planetary system of which Onaris was part. Not until then could the cumbersome physical drive systems be abandoned in favor of the delicate subspace mechanisms which could flip the ship to its destination at megalight velocities without regard to mass or momentum. Slowly Bron's ears became attuned to the dissonance of the engine, and he even dived into fitful sleep before becoming aware that the light in the room had been turned on and that two men had arrived at his side. "Ander Haltern." This was a statement, not an address. "Ah, so that's our master syncretist. He looks too young. You know, Martin, they say he's one of "He came in wearing a shirt of some parasitic fungus. If that's The second voice held a crisp bitterness of tone. A hand reached down and pulled at the crucifix on the chain, then let it go again. IF Chacun a son gout -- sorry, Martin, I forgot you hated the old world and its babels. But every man to his own choice. Not everyone has a hobby such as yours -- or is in a position to indulge in it even if he so desired." "You've never objected before." The phrase was swiftly defensive. "My dear Martin, I am not objecting. I was merely making the point that his desire to suffer pain and your desire to inflict it are merely two aspects of the same sort of character distortion." A long, irritated silence fell. Then: "Do you want to question him?" "I don't particularly want a recital of hick-world lineage and aspirations tonight, Martin. We know he's Haltern, or he wouldn't have been where he was when we found him. Whether he's a prime catalyst we shan't know until we get to the rendezvous." You listening, Bron? "Yes." Subvocally. Can you open your eyes and look at them. Wee got the cameras on. A short blink mil do. Bron shifted his head as though in disturbed sleep, then fought his eyelids open for a few bleared instants while he focused on the faces of the two men beside him. Nicely done, Bron. Weve got what we wanted. One's Martin Daiquist, whom you've already seen. The other -- man, you certainly pick your company well! "Spool it, Ananias! I'm not thinking well tonight." Just as well, perhaps. You've just been face to face with Cana himself V H e awoke to the sound of a watch bell and sat up, shaking the sleep from his head. As the medic had predicted, his skin had cleared, except for a slight scale which feathered away as he touched it. The ache in his limbs, too, was now scarcely perceptible. "Anyone .awake?" He addressed his unseen mentors in a spirit of bravado. Awake? Jaycee was annoyed. How the hell can anyone be otherwise with you snorin' your head off over the transfer link? How do you feel? "Like it was Christmas in Europa." Good. Your memory's returnin'. Though with your usual intake of drink and drugs it beats me how you ever managed to recall anythin' of Christmas in Europa. "Tell me about Daiquist. I'm sure he suspected I fixed that door." Martin Daiquist, ninth generation, Cana's lieutenant -- and probably more ruthless than Cana himself. Responsible for the punitive expeditions against the four worlds that held out against the formation of the Destroyer federation. Watch out for him. He's a mean cuss and as perceptive as the devil. His hobby is takin' people apart painfully. "I'll bear that in mind. What are he and Cana doing here?" Were still not sure. Neither would normally concern himself with a mere planetary raid. Either there s somethin big online or else they ve sensed the Commando interest in the raid and come to investigate personally. If the latter is the case, dont try any of your usual fool -- She broke off to give Bron a chance to concentrate as the medic entered. He gave Bron a swift but thorough examination. "You bloody clear," he said. "You don' deserve it, treatin' your skin like tha'. I'll get you breakfas' sent, an' then you clear out, eh? An' if you come back here again, nex' time I'll use the knife on you -- without anaesthetics. See how much masochis' you are. Colonel Daiquis' wants to see you -- an' I don' advise you play the fool with him. I can' patch up a body after he's done." Soon an orderly fetched a hot breakfast on a tray and the smell of baked meats and coffee made Bron wonder when he had last eaten. He could not remember. His own activities prior to the raid were still lost to him. The orderly also delivered a packet of clothing. Bron found inside a lightweight, tunic-style uniform, underclothes and a white gown that was presumably used for bathing and relaxation. Compressing his lips in wry amusement, he selected only the underclothes and the gown. Fortunately the gown had a pocket large enough to accommodate the Bible. The remaining garments he dropped into the surgical disposal chute, an action he felt certain was in keeping with his position as a Hal tern. When the medic came to escort him to Daiquist he raised his eyebrows at Bron's choice of apparel. "You're bloody mad you don' do as you're tol'." But his acceptance of Bron's assumed eccentricity was an encouraging sign that the incredible masquerade was viable and working. D aiquist looked up from his desk as Bron entered. "Ah, the syncretist. You seem to have recovered." "Why am I here?" asked Bron sharply. "I demand to be returned to the Seminary." Daiquist cocked his head on one side. "There's no chance of that -- no chance at all. Even if we wished, it wouldn't be possible. And we don't wish. We came a long way to get you, Haltern." "The familiar is Bron," said Bron archly. IF "Very well -- Bron. But don't mistake your position. You are a prisoner just as surely as if you were chained to a wall. We hope -- ultimately -- to gain your cooperation. Until we do -- and have satisfied ourselves of your integrity -- you must consider yourself under close guard. I had myself preferred you to be conveyed in the fleshholds, but I was overruled. However, you will end up there if you engage in any mischief." Shortly the door opened and Cana himself came into the room. He looked searchingly at Bron, then took Daiquist's place behind the desk. The impression he gave was that of a powerful intellectual rather than a ruthless creator and destroyer of empires. "Leave us, will you, Martin." For a moment Daiquist appeared about to protest, then he turned and left the room, with a meaningful glance at the prisoner. Bron sensed that a dissension had already arisen over his status on the ship. Daiquist was profoundly displeased. Alone with the great space tyrant, Bron sensed the magnitude of the man -- Cana seemed to fill the room with a hypnotic presence. "I don't normally intervene in Martin's affairs," said Cana. "But I can't afford to have a syncretist of your standing exposed to Martin's personal curiosity. By all accounts you're a man of many talents. You could be very useful to us. But Martin's a suspicious devil -- a quality that often makes him invaluable. He has a theory about you, Syncretist. He suspects you are not who you claim to be." "I'm Bron Ander Haltern, master syncretist, late of Adano University on Onaris.' "If that's so, then you won't mind answering a few questions. If you get a word wrong I'll leave you to Martin." "I object to my word's being doubted. I'll answer anything you care to ask." The synthesis was responding weakly but he picked up the feeling and amplified it himself, exaggerating the note of aggrievement. Bron, this could be sticky. Vm getting Ander on the line to back you up. "Check, Jaycee. I'm not getting much from the synthesis." Cana went to a cabinet and drew out a sheaf of papers. "You see, Bron Haltern, we already know quite a lot about you. Where is Jeddah?" Trick question. Jeddah s a town on Onaris -- but the one a Haltern would remember first is Jeddah Haltern. Hes dead. The voice in Bron's head was unfamiliar, but had a strong Onaris accent. "Jeddah's dead," said Bron. The synthesis stirred weakly. "He was fifth generation. Had he lived he'd have been a hundred and seven by now." Good, but don t take chances. Cana nodded and leafed through the sheets until he came to some plainly tabulated lists. "Give me the title of the paper you presented to the Ninth Symposium of Galactic Science at Maroc on Priam." The ninth symposium was on Mela five, not Priam. Priam was the tenth. "Which do you want," asked Bron, "the paper from the tenth conference or the one given on Mela five?" "Mela five, of course," said Cana, without looking back at the sheets. "I must have mistaken the line." The Application of the Advancing-parameter Exclusion Theory to the Prognostic Delineation of the Patterns of Chaos. Bron repeated this verbatim. Cana nodded and threw the sheaf of papers back on the table. "You know, Syncretist, I don't entirely disagree with Martin. He has an instinct for these things and he's seldom wrong. He daren't be wrong. Our survival is often entirely in his hands. So I reserve an open mind. But if you aren't Haltern, then whoever did send you schooled you well -- so well, perhaps, that whether you are the original or an impostor could be largely irrelevant." "Now answer me a question," said Bron, watching the man closely. "Why have the Destroyer nations such urgent need for a master syncretist?" "Not just a master syncretist. They come in all calibers, and we already have most of them. What we most needed was a man who could combine syncretics with an appreciation of the patterns of chaos." "Why?" "In a few hours," said Cana, 'we are making a space rendezvous. When we are clear from there I may answer your question -- or I may not. You may even answer it for yourself. Until then you have the freedom of the ship. The armorer will take your fingering for the proxlocks. You may enter any doors that open to you. The others are permanently barred to you. I'll have the quartermaster find you cabinspace." door. Bron needed no second indication of dismissal. He made his way straight to the den of the armorer. The latter took his fingering for the proxlocks and entered the resulting profiles in the access computer. Bron made an experimental tour of most of the open levels of the ship to verify his freedom of the locks. Incredibly, almost all the doors he tried responded to his touch. Back in the small cabin which had been allocated to him. IF he lay back on the bunk and called up his unseen confederates. "Jaycee?" No. This is Ananias. Honeybitch is feeding -- I suspect on her usual diet of ground-glass and snake venom. What do you make of Canas giving you the freedom of the ship? "I'm not quite sure. The main question is why. I suspect I'm being allowed just about enough rope to hang from, unless I've got it calculated wrong. The only sectors I haven't been able to enter are Weaponry, Communications and part of the computing complex. It's too damn easy. meter I move." How about the control room? We need to know the ships destination as soon as possible. "I've not yet tried Control, I don't dare seem too interested in the machinery here. Anyway, there's some sort of space rendezvous coming up shortly and the chances are that our heading will be different from there out. Once they start setting for a subspace hop I can pick up the coordinates straight from the subspace matrices if necessary -- without even entering control." Good idea. Mind you, they shouldnt be too worried. If they keep you out of Communications they can be reasonably confident that whatever you learn cant be relayed to where it might be dangerous. I think our concept of the bio-electronic transfer link is sufficiently unique for it to remain completely unsuspected. "I wish I were sure it is unique. I'm still worried about that goosegobble I heard. Something else is operating on our transmission band. It certainly wasn't star static or a normal sort of interference." From calculation it seems that there's nothing near you in space that could conceivably be the signal source. The present hypothesis is that it's a heterodyne signal from something on the ship itself. "It was no heterodyne. I'd say it had all the elements of an intelligent semantic content based on an advanced-level communications system." I'll follow it up, but I think you're certainly wrong. Hullo! What are they doing with your engines? Bron listened critically. "Applying retro, I think. Could mean we're approaching rendezvous." Rendezvous with what? "It hasn't been said or implied, but I'd guess with the remainder of the Destroyer fleet, including those that held orbit round Onaris during the raid."  wonder why. They wouldn't dare to attempt to hold formation in subspace, so why assemble beforehand? "Sounds as though they're putting call signs on the boards right now. The center of attention seems to be the chartroom." Better not look too nosy. Wait till the rendezvous has been established, then go up. "Are you giving me orders, Ananias?" Yes. Have you forgotten how to take them? "Let's get this straight," said Bron. "I'm on the operating end of the transfer link. Mine's' the hide that pays for any mistakes and mine's the body they consign to space when the charade goes sour. Ask for any information you need, but how and when I obtain it is my option. If you want a puppet, jet off and buy yourself a doll." Say that softly, little soldier. Ananias's voice was dangerous. You've more than one electrode in your brain and the controls are under my fingers on this console. Shall I read the decals? Catatonic Withdrawal. Anaesthesia With Maintained Consciousness. Punishment. Death. They aren't written that way, of course -- we're great believers in the use of symbols to gloss over the earthier and more painful facts of your existence -- but the effects are just those. You see, we can insist on discipline. "You've forgotten a button, Ananias."  think not. "While you're playing at being God, shouldn't you also have one with the symbol for resurrection?" T he sudden cutoff of the gravity drive threw a vast silence over Bron's immediate environs, a stillness punctuated only by muted ship noises. The call boards were still chiming the reassembly call. Bron left his cabin and went to investigate. For several minutes the gangways were full of crewmen hastening to regroup. Moving aside to allow one to pass, Bron was instead saluted smartly. "Mastership Haltern, Cana wishes you to join Colonel Daiquist and himself in the chartroom." Bron nodded, trying to analyze the attitude of the crewman. His instructions appeared to include the implication to treat Bron with the respect due a Destroyer officer. This could only be a reflection of Haltern's value as a master syncretist to the Destroyer nations. A suspicion slowly formed. "Ananias, answer me something. What factors made you so sure Ander Haltern was the only man on Onaris the Destroyers would select?" A knowledge of the Onaris intellectual scene coupled with some good guesswork. Why? "Because the fact that it worked IF is too damn much of a coincidence. They must have had a very distinct reason for picking up Haltern alone and you must have known exactly what that reason was. Now give me the facts." I already have given them to you. "Liar." Ananias laughed softly. So you do remember just a little about A nanias? "Only that you aren't to be trusted." Of course not. But there s absolutely nothing you can do about it. "Think again, Ananias," said Bron. "As agent on this team I've a right to any information I consider relevant. Tell Doc I want a straight answer to the question I asked you -- the data so far available looks very suspect." In the chartroom he found the atmosphere electric with tension. All the navigation staff, including those off duty, were gathered to watch the screens. In the deep-space sector station both Daiquist and Cana were present, watching points of light against the cosmic black. Daiquist looked up, saw Bron and scowled, then beckoned him to join them. By the time Bron had reached the deep-sector station all eyes were again intent on the screens and no explanations were offered. Daiquist was supervising some chronometric plotting -- whatever event was about to take place obviously had time as an important component of the equation. Bron settled for a position with a good view of a subsidiary monitoring screen, a situation which also afforded him an opportunity to watch th activities in the whole station. The screen itself gave him an impressive view of the bright ring of ships . of the Destroyer fleet now locked in tight formation and motionless, waiting for something to happen. As the minutes passed, so the tension grew. Then, as if following some indefinable clue, the deep-space controller signaled. "I think this is it." He rapidly centered some almost invisible object under the graticules of his screen and began calling coordinates. All the other scanners turned outward to face the depths of space, though few others had the range to detect an object at such a distance. Daiquist and Cana pressed forward to look over the controller's shoulder. The displayed image as yet had no form, being a mere scatter of electronic noise. Within seconds the computers had acquired sufficient data to begin processing and the screen picture steadied to a rocklike concentricity in the graticules as electronic fingers searched and corrected for the minute signal reflection from some remote splint of matter far in the emptiness of space. "That's it." Cana had acquired a printout from a computer peripheral and a second printout terminal was already making a comparison with something set deep in the computer's micromemory cells. Daiquist returned to the chronometric plotting and watched the pantograph arms begin to sweep wide curves across the plotting boards. His lips grew taut. "Only sixteen point one hours late this time. The positional accuracy is exact and the chronological accuracy is still improving." "Damn," said Cana. "Still I suppose we must be thankful for those two certainties among all the patterns of chaos. I'm getting a bit old for entropy," He glanced up and saw Bron's quizzical interest. For a second his eyes looked into Bron's with a depth of comprehension that rocked Bron back on his heels. "I have a curious feeling about you, Syncretist. There's something in your face that suggests you know what chaos is. I just wonder if your being here is a fact any less calculated than the timing and trajectory of those, " H e nodded back to the screens. Bron's eyes followed, fascinated, as the range closed and the scanners steadily improved in resolution. His first impression was that of a rectangular plate or a door tumbling slowly and aimlessly through the depths of space. The speed with which the details improved was a measure of the very considerable velocity with which the object was moving, yet viewed through the screens against the backdrop of the farther galaxies, its progress appeared leisurely indeed. As it neared it became more distinct in form. Seven long, thick, black cylinders, reminiscent of those used for compressed gas, had been strapped to a thick, black yoke. That appeared to be all; no instruments, no antenna, no solar panels were visible -- none of the delicate and complex sensory and corrective mechanisms usually associated with unmanned space-traversing objects. If anything, the overall impression was one of extreme age and durability rather than of technological prowess. There was something incredibly sinister about these black canisters tumbling idly through space. The scanners were now producing almost a close-up view of the object and the hideous weld seams, massive and unfettled, stood out plainly. Had somebody broken off a part of some ancient gas-cooking plant and hurled it carelessly into space, the effect would have been similar. But there was nothing careless about its traIF jectory, to judge from the meticulous care with which its path was being recorded by the Destroyer technicians. Some great and desperate event seemed about to happen, but everyone about Bron was too intent on some given task to offer explanations. He gasped as the reeling mass filled the screens, as though falling straight upon Cana's ship. But this was a trick of screen magnification. Suddenly the scanners reeled and Bron found himself watching the object falling away in a higgledy-piggledy tumble as it passed through the ring of watching ships. Daiquist was again busy watching the chronometric plotting, as successive sweeps of the pantograph thickened the once faint traces to multiple bands of lines like the diagram of a muscular skeleton. Cana watched the cylinders draw away, his face a cloud of darkness. Then with sudden decision he turned his back on the screens and walked away. His path took him past Bron and his eyes widened sagely. "Watch that one through, Syncretist. I shall want to talk to you after." forward into Cana's vacated seat with the main screen in full view before him. Remorselessly the crossed hairs of the screen graticule locked on to the path of the retreating canister, which appeared to diminish slowly in size and then advance again as the magnification was periodically adjusted to offset the increasing range. Bron followed their dark passage with deep interest. The nemesis appeared to have passed, but the tension in the chartroom was undiminished. So intent was he on following the progress of the cylinders framed at the center of the screen that he neglected the implication of the changing hues of the background. Onaris! Ananias's voice broke in on his thoughts. Give us a broader view, Bron. Bron scanned the whole screen area, realizing with a start that the variegated background hues were, in reality, the non-focused outlines of seas and continents. Inexorably the black cylinders continued under the crossed hairs of the graticule, while the physical details of the planetary surface began to grow in resolution. The moment of impact was unforgettable. The blossoming fireball must have extended into space a full planetary diameter, a gulf of fantastic fiery plasma that streaked up and out with a velocity beyond the regions of belief. From his knowledge of physics Bron knew that such a fantastic holocaust must have stripped the atmosphere from the planet in seconds. The next stage was a sort of coalescenced, the fireball contracting and drawing in upon itself as if to concentrate its essence. The yellow, surrealistic with an ethereal fringe of mercurial blue. Around it the planetary features reappeared, but not with the cool greens and buffs of before. Now whole continents stood out as if raised to cherry heat, and where the seas had been were bowls of black, crawling with fire like soot on a chimney. Then the planet broke up, not quickly, but with the wrong-seeming slowness of massive events seen from a distance; a kind of reluctant finality. Centered upon the spot where the fireball had condensed, the planet began to spew up its liquid core in a gout of molten heavy metals, which coalesced in space and drew back toward the gravitic center of the mass, obliterating continents and coastlines with a horrific tide of matter returned to the state from which the planet had once cooled. As this happened, the shell of the planet broke, continents rearing crazily on end like ships sinking on a sea and land masses floating in broken fragments like dross on molten tin. Bron kept no record of the hours that passed while this incredible scene was enacted. The death of individuals was something he had been trained to accept unconditionally; the death of nations was one of the aims of war. Even whole species died occasionally in the name of some cause -- but the death of an entire planet was something that rendered Man and his entire status in the universe of no greater account than a biological culture grown in a dish and discarded when the experiment was finished. This was an object lesson in finite reality. VI seen it. Now explain it to me." Bron's voice was hardened by his viewing of the incident. How do you think they got the name Destroyers, Bron? "But where did the hellburner come from? It didn't originate from this fleet." It wouldnt. A ship carrying weapons like that would scarcely be invited to make planetfall on a flesh raid. Even in standoff orbit it could be a liability. They must keep it clear out in the void. When the raid is finished it slides in a massive hellburner io take care of the evidence. "I shouldn't have thought that Cana needed to destroy the evidence. He's strong enough not to care what the Galaxy thinks." In five years galactic patrols have found around thirty-seven formerly inhabited planets turned inIF to nickel-iron slag balls. Eleven of these, equipped with subspace transmitters, had broadcast warnings of Destroyer attack shortly before their obliteration. Five others put out standard light-velocitylimited transmissions with the same theme. Some of these planets were dead three years before anyone got the message. Bron considered this in silence for a moment. "Tell me, Ananias, what was the population of Onaris?" "Then if we knew the Destroyers were coming when they did, why the hell didn't we have a fleet waiting for them instead of only me?" If we d known that Daiquist and Cana were with the party, we probably would have had our fleet there. As it was we were merely implementing a policy decision to locate their base world. "Policy decision? That decision Onarians their lives. What kind of policy is that?" Bron froze as a hand clamped on his shoulder. Daiquist dropped into the seat next to him. "Why so thoughtful, Syncretist? Have you never seen a world destroyed before?" "That was Onaris," said Bron flatly. "All gone. In the name of God, why did you have to do it? You'd had presumably already taken all that you came for." Daiquist's eyes were searching Bron's face critically. "I rather wonder if we didn't get a little more than we came for. You make me uneasy, Syncretist. I never did have much time for intellectuals -- and an intellectual with the build and tone of a fighting man definitely needs watching. For myself I wouldn't take the risk. I'd prefer to kill you-now, but Cana has decided otherwise. I advise you to prove him right." Bron returned the scrutiny in depth. "You still haven't answered my question. Why was it necessary to destroy Onaris?" "Syncretist you may be," said Daiquist, "but you've still got a hell of a lot to learn. Come, Cana wants to see you in his suite. We're going to give you the chance to do a little exercise in cooperation." "Cooperation? My God -- you expect me to cooperate with you after that? He made a dramatic gesture toward the spotted frrecherry that was all that was left of Onaris on the screen. "I would rather die." "I'd rather you died," said Daiquist. "Unfortunately the decision isn't mine. But listen carefully to what Cana has to say, because it's likely you'll change your mind." "You don't bend a Haltern that easily. Damn you, Daiquist! If I must take this journey, let it be in the flesh holds." The synthesis still stirred weakly. Steady, Bron. Ananias's voice was cautioning. "I don't happen to be offering you the choice." Daiquist drew his sidearm menacingly. "It's not a good idea to keep Cana waiting. If you're thinking of resistance -- remember that I never shoot to kill." H aving no option, Bron rose and reluctantly walked in the indicated direction. Daiquist followed, his weapon aimed low. At the door of Cana's suite Bron was surprised to find the lock respond easily to his own hand. Cana was sitting at a large desk, watching strip issuing from a computer printout terminal. This had evidently been his occupation for some time, for the floor was littered with discarded strip lengths printed with compact series of figures. "Ah, Syncretist." Cana kicked the sprawling strips into an untidy pile. "Stay with us, will you, Martin." "It might be wisest." Daiquist selected a chair and gestured Bron to another. Cana addressed himself to Bron. "I take it from your face that you've seen what happened to Onaris." "I've seen what happened. What I can't establish is why it was necessary. Surely you'd already taken what you wanted?" Cana frowned, a display indicating a depth of concentration outside Bron's experience. "You won't understand this yet, but it was precisely because we'd taken what we wanted that Onaris died. Almost our only means of establishing the success of a raid is whether a hellburner blasts the life out of the target planet within hours of our liftoff." Bron was silent for a long second, wrestling with the wrongness of this statement. Finally he looked back at Cana and shook his head. "That doesn't make sense." "It does to us. The point I wish to make clear to you is that we didn't put that hellburner down there. Somebody else did." He's lying, Bron, Ananias's voice was positive. "You don't expect me to believe that?" "In the circumstances, no. I know your intellectual record and I realize it precludes you from accepting a statement unless you are satisfied with the evidence on which it's based. I'm therefore giving you the opportunity of establishing and examining your own evidence -- and drawing your own conclusions." "How?" "I invite -- no, dare you -- to examine any available record from any ship of this fleet and attempt to calculate the source and time of origin of the missile that deIF stroyed Onaris. Two points I would add. One -- although the missile's position was exact, its arrival was sixteen point one hours late in time. Two -- " Cana swung fullface to Bron for emphasis and Daiquist raised his sidearm meaningly -- "you may have access to our video records of the screens and any other data in our possession to enable you to calculate the missile's exact point of impact on Onaris. Although its effect would have been the same wherever it had struck, I think you'll find its point of impact coincides exactly with your own position sixteen point one hours earlier. You see, Bron Haltern, that missile wasn't specifically intended for Onaris -- or even for us. That missile was intended for you -- personally." W HA T you makin of it, Bron? "Not sure, Jaycee. Could be an elaborate sort of game -- a trick to secure the cooperation of whatever intelligentsia they have lifted in a raid. Or it could be that Cana's quite genuine when he says that the Destroyer's aren't to blame." Ananias doesnt think so. He was as mad as a scalded tiger when you accepted Canas invitation to check out the data on the hellburner. "I'm not sure that I trust Ananias any more than I trust Cana. Do you record everything that transpires over the transfer link?" Its all soundand video-taped for future reference. Why? "Tell Doc I'd like to check back through the sessions I've had with Ananias. I'm not convinced I'm getting the right answers." Uh! Even in amnesia the mistrust isnt dead. If you re taking on Ananias youd best be reminded hes a pretty dangerous cuss. "So am I, Jaycee. And the way I see this mission, it's strictly oneway, so I don't have anything to lose. Will you do it?" With pleasure. Ed love to get hold of something that would make the Godlost weaklin sweat. "Then stay on the line -- because there are things about General Ananias that I'm beginning to remember." Bron had acquired a master-program panel in part of the computing complex to which he had access. Two Destroyer programers had been assigned to him and a duty technician was on sound and vision call. All were quickly supplying whatever services or data Bron chose to ask for. Bron, relying less on the failing Haltern synthesis than on his own training, was speedily assessing his requirements and impressing the information on a standard location-of-source space-weapons program. The information available from the ring of Cana's fleetships through which the object had passed added a dimensional certainty to his calculation that was normally lacking in similar studies. Cana can't hope to get away with this, Bron. Any computerman worth his salt and given access to the data you re gettin must be able to give the lie to the claim. "Unless the computer is bent. There's a lot of this computing complex I can't get near. They could be using it to apply correctives so that I can only get the answers they want me to have." Thats why we re read in everythin through you, Bron. We re going to run the same computation here so we can compare differences. "Fine. I'm just about through on the location-of-source program. I'll set it running." Were going to rewrite the program to suit our equipment. Weve got all the data we need, so we wont be far behind you. Bron called the Destroyer technician. "How's that video record coming on?" "She nearly ready, if you like to come up to projection room." Bron cast a hurried glance over his own series of figures, then passed it to the programers. In the projection room the technician was waiting. "Ah've put the las' two hundred frames before explosion on closed loop. Give you las' four seconds of approach withou' spoilin' definition." "Run it." Bron dropped into a seat before the screens. The Destroyer technician looked at him briefly; his smile acknowledged the professional competence in Bron's way of organizing his inquiries. "Ah'll put her on big screen, Mr. 'altern." "The form of address is Mastership," said Bron severly. "Have you got that reconnaissance photograph of Ashur yet?" "Jus' cornin' on facsimile printer. Soon as scan is complete we'll print projection slide for montage." "I don't want montage. I want to alternate the scanner image with the reconnaissance projection." "Ah get poin' now. You alternate two images a' same magnification, you able pinpoin' position of contac' within few hundred meters." "To be certain, I need to locate to within one meter." The technician whistled. "Tha's no' possible. Mastership." "Call me Bron." The technician smiled broadly. "Ah'm Camaj. You no amateur, Bron. You know wha' you're doin'. Ah've tried some fixes in my time, but this the closes' Ah ever tried." "Can you do it?" "A fix to one meter from t'irty jokin' " "I'm not joking, Camaj. I do need that accuracy to be sure." IF "Then we do i' as you say. You show me how." T he screen lit up with the videorecorded last four seconds before the missile struck, repeated endlessly from the closed tape loop. In these last fragments of time for Onaris, the image of the city of Ashur flashed briefly into focus, a mere vague pattern of blocked browns and grays, unrecognizable as it stood, meaningful only if compared with a more detailed view. Central in the field of view was the black shape of the missile still aimlessly atwist in the instants before its terrible reaction. The scene was swiftly replaced with a projected reconnaissance holograph of Ashur taken from a ship orbiting around Onaris before the cataclysm. Here the ground details stood cut with perfect clarity, with buildings, vehicles, and even the minute dots of individuals easily identifiable. The magnification of the projection was adjusted to that of the taped record and then the two images were alternated to show coincidences of outline. Roughly half the reconnaissance record had been traversed before the two patterns showed point for point similarity. Bron's final micro-adjustments took fully half an hour. "Jaycee, what was my exact position sixteen point one hours before the explosion?" You were chained in the alcove at the west end of the church of the Sacred Relic, The Destroyer party was just about to collect you, "You saw where the hellburner struck?" Yes, At the west end of the church slightly to the right of the centerline. In other words, it went as near as possible right down on to that alcove. "Correct. Which is too much of a coincidence to be true. I don't like coincidences that can be measured with a micrometer attachment." He glanced up and saw the technician watching him. "Convinced, Camaj?" "Ah'm convinced. Tha' technique Ah use again. Will tha' be enough?" Bron nodded. "More than enough to be going on with. How the hell does anyone project a hellburner from outspace with that sort of accuracy?" The technician shrugged his shoulders. "You're th' syncretis'. For me, wonder is how she gets through atmosphere withou' burnou'. After all, she has no nose cone -- " "Jaycee, you heard that?" Yes, Bron. We'd picked up the same point. Not only remarkable weaponry, but a remarkable weapon too. It should have burned out in the atmosphere at that velocity, but there was no sign it even got hot. "All the more reason to find out where it came from." Bron dismissed the technician and went back to the computing section. The computer had already printed out the directional components and was engaged in comparing lists of known spatial objects which had occupied trajectory intercept positions at previous points in time. A mere glance at the time scale in which it was now seeking a match stopped Bron's heart a full beat. When the final printout came he folded the paper deftly with the characters inside and without looking at them. Lets see the answers, Bron. Ananias's voice cut sharply into his head. "No. Let me hear yours first." Vm not asking. That's an order. "Get off my back, Ananias." You b -- Ananias's voice was suddenly cut off Fragments of conversation followed too low in volume for Bron to catch. Finally Jaycee's voice came through. Sorry about that, Bron. Ananias was throwing his weight about. I don't think he'll try it again -- not in that way. As we see it, there has to be a ship out in the void. The location of source tensor carried back to known spatial objects on the trajectory doesn't make sense. The only intercept is a location in Messier #. "The spiral nebula in Andromeda?" No less. Travelin at its subluminal velocity from there would have taken all of seven hundred rule that one out. Bron unfolded the printout. "All of which figures agree with mine. The Destroyer computer isn't bent." So Cana does have a hellburner carrier way out in the void. "It looks as though somebody has. I wouldn't be too certain it was Cana." What you meanin, Bron? "My dear Jaycee, Cana sent his crew to the Seminary because Haltern was due to take up his residency there. That was a reasonable action based on prior intelligence. But when that hellburner was launched not even Cana could have known exactly where in the Seminary Haltern would be at any specific time. In fact, the only offworlders who knew at all times my precise position were Doc Veeder, Ananias -- and yourself" A nanias turned from the screen, critical disgust written broadly on his face. "So much for your ability to handle Bron, honey-bitch. Let hini break away like that again and I'll have you reduced to walking the streets -- and knowing your poisonous talents I doubt if you'd make much of a success of even that." "Jet off, you Godlost runt." Jaycee smoldered cobra-bright. IF "What you doin' -- tryin' to drum up some pimpin' for the day you lose your pension?" Ananias glanced involuntarily at the tabs on his shoulders. His small, pink lips were even more moist than usual and his bright eyes seemed to be reflecting some traumatic inner fire. "Don't underestimate me, honey-bitch. I could do it, you know." "Sick dreams, Ananias. You'll be lucky to retain your commission when Doc gets through with you." The import of her phrase took a full second before it produced a shock reaction. "Say that again -- slowly, honeybitch." His voice was sharp and suspicious. "Don't play innocent. You know its against regulations to destroy recordin's of transfer-link sessions." "What?" In his anger Ananias raised his hand as though to strike her, but forbore with the agonized realization that before his blow could fall she would probably have broken his arm. He forced himself into a more calculating mood. "Who put you on to that?" "Bron -- askin' questions." She was enjoying his discomfort. "And you told Doc?" "Of course. I even booked him a call to Commando Central so he didn't get time to cool off." "That was very stupid, honeybitch." Ananias was struggling with his anger. "Doc should never have made that call. I carry the General Staff mandate -- and that means I effectively outrank everyone on this installation. If it suits me to destroy some or even all of the recordings, neither you nor Medic-commander Veeder has any business interfering." "You're damn wrong there." Veeder, entering the door had caught the trailing end of the conversation. Although his expression remained within its authorized lines of concern, the reddening of his face and neck showed the height of his inner feelings. "I'll remind you. General Ananias, that this is a Commando installation and subject only to Commando control." "And I'll remind you," said Ananias, "that you are engaged on a joint mission with Intelligence under a GenStaff Order. That places you under my jurisdiction. So far, I can't say I'm impressed with your handling of the situation. Honey-bitch has demonstrated lamentably little control over her agent and as for Bron himself -- look at the kind of mental cripple I'm expected to work through: concussion, amnesia, schizophrenia and persecution paranoia -- to say nothing of refusal to accept orders, insubordination and outright rebellion." "You're a fine one to talk about mental cripples." Jaycee was furious. "Anyway, Ananias, where did you get the idea Bron suffers from persecution paranoia? I've seen nothing of it. It couldn't just be on part of the record you found it convenient to erase?" "Honey-bitch," said Ananias dangerously, "I've already told you what I'm going to do for you. And as for Doc, I think premature retirement on a greatly reduced pension would still be more than justice. As of tomorrow, I'm bringing in Intelligence operatives to take over your function here." "Drop dead, Ananias." Veeder subconsciously adopted Jaycee's infectious mood of contempt. "At my request. Commando Central has yerified that the operating arm of this mission remains under my control. Your capacity is purely advisory. As far as I'm concerned, you're here on sufferance." "I shall contest that decision with GenStaff. You can't hope to win." "Perhaps not, but while the order stands you will not destroy my records and you will not interfere with the operation of this installation." "And suppose I do?" taut glimmer of amusment, which was the nearest he allowed himself to approach to human triumph. "If you do. General Ananias, you'll find yourself under close arrest in a Commando cell block awaiting trial by court martial." "You couldn't hold me." "I could -- for long enough to see this mission through without interference." Jaycee said: "Touche! in a manner calculated not to improve Ananias's declining temper. White-faced, Ananias turned to face the pair of them. For a moment it was uncertain whether he was nearer laughter or tears. "You won't get away with this, you know. Within a week this unit will be entirely under my control." "Don't need a week, Ananias." Jaycee was on the point immediately. "Any time now Bron should have the coordinates we need. That was the mandate, wasn't it -- the establishment of the location of the Destroyer's baseworld? It's all over then except for the shootin'." "Not quite over, honey-bitch. I'll have a few old scores to settle first." Doc moved back to the attack. "In the meantime, Ananias, there are questions that need answering." "Such as?" "The goose-mutter which Bron heard -- to which I would have attached no great significance had you not bothered to erase all reference from the tapes." "And?" "The question of how you could be so certain that Ander Haltern was the only Onaris technocrat who would interest the Destroyers?" IF Ananias was fazed momentarily. "I thought that was all -- " "Destroyed? Not quite, Ananias. The transfer link to Antares is routed through Commando Signals. They also make recordings of everything transmitted . or received." "That will have to be stopped," "You'll need a damn good reason." "I have one." "Then let's have it. The Commandos have spent nearly a quarter of their total budget for six years just setting up this project and my best agent's out on that Destroyer ship right now. If there are any facts we haven't been given, I suggest you give them fast. I'm damn sure Commando Central would never have agreed to cooperate this far if they had had a suspicion something was being held back." "There are levels of Security," said Ananias. "This one is out of the topmost drawer. The fewer people there are who know, the better." "You're lyin', Ananias. Even Veeder was surprised by the vehemence of Jaycee's attack. "I know when you're lyin' because it's the only time you look human. God! Security's just a word you use for gettin' your own way without question -- but don't be so naive as to try it on me. You're up to something and it stinks. "Honey-bitch," said Ananias, "you'd better keep a cautious tongue in that viperous head of yours." "Jet off, you blackmailin' runt! Don't try threatenin' me. Don't you realize I could finish you any time I chose?" "How's that, honey-bitch?" "You fixed Bron's psycho-synthesis and the semantic recall triggers -- but I had a few tricks with Bron extendin' way back before your time. Just one word from me could put Bron on the defensive -- then he won't cooperate no matter what you do. How you goin' to survive that, Ananias?" "Get away from those controls, Jaycee. That's an order." "Go to hell, Ananias," said Medic-commander Veeder. "When you've finished the infighting, perhaps you could spare me an observer." Bron's mocking voice broke suddenly through the speakers. "I'm going to try to get the coordinates from the subspace cavity." "Engaged." Jaycee forsook the argument and became quickly absorbed in rapport with the screens, her hands delicately trimming the controls by sense of touch alone. "Full recordin' facility on, Bron. I'm followin'." Ananias shrugged resignedly and stalked toward the computer. Only when the ship coordinates had been firmly established and were ready for transpositions would he dare to interfere. But once he did move, the results would have to be swift, massive and final. There was no room for mistakes nor for the toleration of opposition at this stage of the game. Far too much had already gone wrong. T he call boards began to chime the reassembly call. Almost imperceptibly Bron began to feel the additional components of gravity as the main drive was run up to full power. Watching the pattern on the board, he waited for the alert of the subspace team and gave it time to reach stations before he attempted to follow. It was obvious that the ship's present mode of gravity drive was merely meant to provide steerage for a fast subspace passage. The situation suggested that the matrices would be used as soon as they had been programed. He was nearing the end of his time of waiting. Soon he had to pick up -- either from the chartroom or directly from the subspace matrix -- the coordinates that would betray the location of the Destroyer baseworld. At that point his own mission ended. The massed forces of the Stellar Commando, probably reinforced with the more spiteful dreadnoughts of the Terran Federation's combined navies, would split whole star systems apart if necessary just to destroy the world the Destroyers had made the basis of their might. The battle would undoubtedly be the biggest space war in history -- its winners would become a legend. Bron doubted anyone . would ever see or hear again of a Commando called Bron who would have made the whole thing possible. At some point the incredible nemesis awaiting Cana and his forces would catch up with the Destroyer ship in which Bron now traveled and his end would come. The lower corridors were almost empty and it was easy for him to pass through the minor gangways unobserved. Timing was important -- he dared not be too soon and he must not be too late. Even now the subspace team should be setting up its fantastic and delicate instruments to define the two points in space between which the ship would leap into the tachyon quasidimension. Although of a design unfamiliar to Bron's hypno-synthesis or his real memories, the entrance to the subspace installation bore the usual features dictated by the invariable principles of superluminal mechanics. The positive air pressure forced a gale around him as he opened the hatch. In the access tunnel he allowed the cyclone air streams to swirl about him, the boiling turbulence removing the more gross dust and lint on his garments. Somewhere in his awareness lurked a faIF miliarity with subspace mechanisms that bred caution rather than contempt. Not for a second did he attempt to disregard the elaborate precautions necessary to protect the delicate mechanisms in the cavity beyond. At the tunnel barrier he exchanged his sandals for a pair of the soft, clinging shoes on the rack and carefully dragged on the flexible rubber suit, which clung to his body like a second skin. Although the suit was designed to accommodate a Destroyer uniform, it would in no way encompass his gown. He was finally forced to discard the latter and proceed with the rubber hotly uncomfortable against his bare body. He passed through the stinging detergent sprays and rinses and then the dryer. Only' when this ritual had been carefully performed did he dare to penetrate beyond. The anteroom, where the subspace crew would wait during the jump, was empty. Next came the labyrinth and beyond this the matrix cavity itself, always a place of darkness and wonder. Basically the cavity was nothing but a skeletal box between the great electrodes, surrounded by a gallery from which the technicians worked. Within the box, created and maintained by the field conditions which gave the atmosphere its green and awesome complete section of the cosmos in miniature. No illumination was permissible save for the luminescence of the field and the technicians were too intent on working to notice a watching shadow hard against the outer wall. Only their faces were visible, illuminated by the eerie glow, like a gaggle of witches engaged in some wild, black art. With infinite care and delicacy the micron-straight, hair-fine probes were being extended like nearly invisible copper strands across the star matrix, defining positions and axes and measuring critical paths, probing always through the infinitesimally small spaces between the patterns of ersatz stars. Slowly across the micro-universe they were weaving the copper webs which would define the positions of entry and termination of their superluminal jump through tachyon space. knowledgeable eyes, his training or programing -- he had no way of telling which -- enabling him to assess the various criteria and thus the progress of the operation. Finally he judged it was time to move. "I'm going to try to pick up the coordinates soon, Jaycee. I'll leave you to do the recording while I merely observe." Engaged, Bron. Bron moved slowly around the perimeter gallery. If he was noticed at all by the subspace team they must either have assumed he was one of their own number or else that he had legitimate business in the cavity. In any event, nobody questioned his presence, and the painstaking work of aligning coordinates went on without interruption. When Bron was sure the final settings had been made he cautiously inspect each gauge turret in turn. Despite his arrangement with Jaycee he silently filed the figures from the dim digital indicators into a mnemonic key as he went. Jaycee, for her part, verbally confirmed her reception of the sequences. "I'm getting out now, Jaycee. I have to get clear before the crew leaves. I don't relish the idea of being trapped in here during the jump. Have you got all the figures you need?" I think so. Well transpose back into real-space coordinates and get them on transmission immediately. Bron turned to negotiate the labyrinth. "I suppose you'll be signing off soon? You've got all I came for." Were scheduled to maintain contact at least until we get confirmation of the destruction of the baseworld. That's the GenStaff requirement. But I think Doc wants to keep the project going purely as a Commando exercise. Ananias has been playing a rather peculiar game -- he's made us think there may be more in this affair than appears at the surface. Bron was swiftly stripping the rubber suit from his sweating body. "Tell me in a minute, Jaycee. Looks as though they're going to jump fast." Behind him he could hear movements in the labyrinth as the subspace crew vacated the cavity for the duration of the jump. He was well past the subspace anteroom, but still visible from its doorway. In the suit Bron had made an anonymous figure in the cavity darkness, but in his gown his identity was unmistakable. Only by gaining the hatch before the first crewman emerged from the labyrinth could he hope to conceal his intrusion. Even as the outer hatch was closing he heard behind him a sudden buzz of conversation and the click of a communications handset. It was impossible to tell if this was a routine incident or whether he had been seen and his presence reported. Although his presence in the cavity in no way exceeded the license allowed him by Cana, the pattern of his interests was beginning to weigh heavily against his assumed pose as an academic syncretist. Now that the Commandos had the information they required. IF Bron was free to try to mold for himself a pattern of survival if he could. Since he was sitting at what was calculated to be the losing end of one of the biggest projected space battles ever, his course was not easy to see. The subspace alert broke his deliberations and forced him to look for safety straps. Most of the positions were duty points, soon to be occupied by crewmen. He found a spare harness near the communications room and thrust his arms into it. So tightly did the Destroyers cut their pre-jump schedule that many of the crewmen made their positions with equally little time to spare. Then the ship jumped. The Destroyers obviously believed in making concessions neither to ship nor men when dealing with subspace. They slammed into it at full power, hard, fast and straight. Thirtythree seconds of gut-tearing, bonestraining agony, during which their craft was slipped through the lightbarrier to be hurled at superluminal velocities across the galaxy. Bron knew from subspace theory what his conscious mind refused to accept -- that by a process of involution the ship had in reality disappeared from the space-time continuum entirely and now actually moved between the webs of its own ersatz galaxy in the subspace cavity deep within its own guts. Stories still survived of spacemen who claimed to have seen the copper bars straddling the stars at the end of a subspace jump. Bron was not certain about this, but he did know that technicians caught in the subspace cavity during the jump had observed the ionization trail of their own ship speeding from web to web. Those of them, that is, who managed to recover from the shock. T he ship dropped into the quiescent phase of the jump and the tearing pressures eased. The heavy thunder of the grav drive was replaced by the eerie song of the fantastically delicate subspace drive. Bron unbuckled the harness and let it drop, finding suddenly that he was left with nothing specific to do but look for survival. His situation was unenviable. He could do nothing that might endanger the success of the Commandos -- within these slim confines he was entitled to seek his own salvation. Yet who was he? Who was this parcel of human flesh upon whom so much seemed to have depended? In the quietness of his own cabinspace the question suddenly seemed of great importance to him. "Jaycee, now tell me about hie. What name did I have other than Bron?" None, Jaycee responded with quiet malice. You were found in a street market of Anhatine on Bela-six by a Terran trade delegation. They had chartered a scudder and its descent blasted apart a pile of garbage. You were underneath, four weeks old.  wish to God theyd left you there, but they picked you up because they were Terrans and therefore soft and squeamish about the destruction of young life. They took you with them to the spaceport from which they were due to travel offworld. Neither the police nor the customs were interested, so you were shipped to Terra, registered as a demonstration animal. How you got the name nobody knows, but it was probably the coded customs stamp on your livestock export documents. In a way it seems rather appropriate. "You aren't lying to me are you, Jaycee?" No, it's all on file. On Terra your presence proved embarrassin to the dispersin' delegation. You were dumped in a para-military orphanage run by a Dr. Harvestine. Harvestine was a pathological bully, but apparently a good teacher. By the age of seven you learned enough of the brutal arts to break the doctor's neck in unarmed combat. Only the Commando school seemed to offer the type of curriculum to which you'd been accustomed, so the courts sent you there. For the next fifteen years you took everythin' in the way of trainin' the commandos could fling at you. Both academically and militarily you persisted in cornin' out on top. From weaponry through combat to higher mathematics you thrived on everythin' that was offered. But with one unalterable characteristic -- a capacity for chaos. "Chaos?" Yes, Bron. The ability to play a system against itself until it breaks down and disintegrates. Then, when everyone is runnin in circles, guess who moves through the ruins engaged in furtherin' his own ends? "And that's me?" That's you, Bron. Everythin' about you is chaos. Your personal life is chaos and the same thing happens to most of those with whom you get involved. You breed chaos and when the mess is thick enough you move in, pickin' the bits you think you want and then discardin' them when they don't provide whatever it is you're searchin' for. You do this with people as well as things -- and without regard for the consequences. "Tell me, Jaycee, did we ever meet?" That's classified information, Bron. I can't answer you that. "Damn you. I'll ask Doc." You'll get the same answer from anyone. Our relationship is on a psycologically balanced basis and you or nothin' is goin to upset the balance. IF "Don't compute on that, Jaycee. If ever I make Terra again it'll take more than the Stellar Commando to keep me from the objective I have in mind right now." The door opened abruptly and two armed crewmen gestured him out into the corridor. "Bron 'altern, Cana wants to see you. Come." This time there was no attempt at respect. A curt order and a movement with a handgun were more an indication of an arrest than a request for company. Bron shrugged and turned as directed. "This looks like the end, Jaycee," he said subvocally. Vm bringing Doc on-line. If there s anythin we can do... "You know the only damn thing you can do is kill me to stop my breaking under torture." T he detail halted before Cana's door, motioned for him to enter, then took stations outside, handguns ready. Cana was seated at his desk, a solitary figure deep in thought, chin in hands, elbows resting on a plane of polished wood. "Sit down, Syncretist," he said. "I take it you've concluded your investigations on the origin of the missile." Bron relaxed slightly. "I have." "Having checked a reprint of your calculations, I can assure you that your answers coincide exactly with our own. The fact that you programed the computer using a weaponry format rather than the classical software has not escaped my notice. One wonders just how far syncretism extends." His eyes looked into Bron's with a questing comprehension that left Bron feeling weak. A slight smile surfaced on Cana's lips. "You're a man of many talents, Syncretist. And I don't suppose we've seen all of them yet. But then, I should have expected nothing else from you." "I don't'understand." Cana raised his eyebrows sagely. "I take it you've already decided where the missile came from." "Of course. It originated either from a location in Messier Thirty-one some seven hundred million years ago or from a carrier somewhere in the void only a few hours before impact. From the location of your ring of ships at rendezvous, it is obvious that you know that a missile was going down on Onaris and knew in advance the precise details of its trajectory." "The implication being that the weapon carrier was mine and that the destruction of Onaris was an entertainment rigged mainly for your benefit?" "You read me correctly," said Bron. Knowing both the nearness and the inevitability of death gave him a curiously fatalistic courage. "You're no fool, Syncretist," said Cana, "and you're no megalomaniac either. Ask yourself why the hell I would go to such lengths just to amuse you. The answer is that I wouldn't. To reach the truth of the situation it is necessary to make an inversion. We didn't anticipate that missile as much as it anticipated us. And its origin was in Messier Thirty-one." "That I decline to believe. Have you tried to examine the implications?" "Yes." Cana maintained his intellectual calm. "The implications are simply that seven hunor something in Andromeda foresaw the precise details of our raid on Onaris and our acquisition of you and took steps calculated to prevent our meeting. So fantastic were their calculations that they were positionally exact and only about sixteen hours late in time. It's the same story almost wherever we go -- but the time margin is becoming smaller. On present estimates we shall be able to get away with only four more raids. If we attempt a fifth, we shall still be there when the hellburner arrives." "Suppose you leave earlier -- or change your destination?" "It makes no difference. It is the action we finally perform, not the decisions leading up to it, that is critical. If we plan a raid and abort our intention at the last #nstant, no missile appears. Sometime nobody but myself has known of the intention to abort a raid -- yet seven hundred mine was anticipated. If we plan a target, then switch to an alternative, it is to the alternative that the missile is directed -- was directed -- somewhere about the time that the first sparks of life were being struck in the Terran primitive soup. It's like the ancient concept of fate, fixed and immutable, that waits for you no matter where you run." "Insanity!" For a moment the Haltern synthesis flared. "Not insanity, Syncretist Bron Haltern -- or whoever you may be." Cana's gaze was shrewd and unruffled. "Rather a matter of cause and effect. Initially we were primarily engaged in acquiring slaves, but among our intake was an inevitable percentage of indigenous intelligentsia. These we employed on high-level tasks. Sometimes a missile followed these raids and sometimes it did not. Our computers threw up the curious correlation between our acquisition of certain specialist technocrats and the destruction of the world from which they had been taken. These peculiarly fatalistic individuals all had knowledge and potential in one Held of advanced cosmology -- that of the patterns of chaos. Which brings us directly to you." IF "In what way?" "Seeing that our opportunities were running short, we made it our deliberate policy when raiding to acquire the best chaos men in the galaxy. Your reputation as an authority on the patterns of chaos ranks indisputably the highest and made you a natural candidate both for us and for the arrival of the missile where and when it fell. Only -- " "Only what?" "The missiles normally consist of three cylinders at most. For you they sent seven. From a distance of better than six hundred thousand parsecs and seven hundred have held your achievements, actual or potential, in very high regard. What sort of things are you going to do, Syncretist, to realize that promise?" door forestalled any answer Bron might have made. Daiquist's voice could be heard raised in angry argument with the guard detail. Cana keyed a switch on his desk and the door swung open. "Come in, Martin. They had their instructions not to let us be disturbed." Daiquist strode into the room, followed by two junior officers. His face was red with fury. "You've got that damned syncretist here -- " "Certainly." Cana regarded his fuming lieutenant speculatively. "What's on your mind, Martin?" "He is. I thought he was a spy and now I'm certain of it." Cana remained utterly calm. "You could be right, Martin. I, too, have my suspicions. But they may not be relevant. It's no accident that seven cylinders went down on Onaris. Spy or not, he's certainly a prime chaos catalyst." , "To hell with Catalysis. I don't trust him. He's too damned clever. He was snooping around in the subspace cavity just before the jump." Cana stiffened. "Can you explain that, Syncretist?" "I was interested in how you programed for the jump. I have some subspace theories of my own." "I have other theories," said Daiquist, "and one of them is that you're not Haltern. It would take me only a half-hour in the interrogation room to get the truth from you." "No." Cana's voice was sharp. "All the signs so far are that we've acquired in him a key piece of this entropy puzzle. Haltern or not, it doesn't matter much. He appears to have the potential to fill whatever catalytic role the patterns of chaos have already set. To put it bluntly, a large part of the future threatens to ride on his shoulders -- and the future would be better supported on a fit back than on a cripple's." "Then confine him to where he can't get into any mischief -- or I can't be held responsibe for your safety or the safety of this ship." "Very well." Cana came to a sudden decision. "Break the jump, Martin, and put him aboard the nearest corvette." Daiquist nodded his acceptance. "I've an even better idea. Let me put him on the Tantalus -- and I'll go with him. I'd be interested in seeing his reactions." Cana considered some hidden implication in the proposal, nodded his approval. "I doubt you're right, Martin, but there's a slight chance we might learn something. There has to be something very special about a man whose murder was considered so essenDaiquist nodded curtly to his aides. "Take the Syncretist and lock him up. One of you is to stay with him at all times. I'll have the jump halted. We should be ready to make transfer within the hour." ty cabin and locked in with one of the aides. He lay back on the bunk and stared up at the ceiling. "Jaycee." Dont talk to me, you pitiful cretin! "What the hell's eating you?" If they discover now who you are it could ruin the whole exercise. "Spool the sermons, Jaycee. I need Ander, quick." You need poisonin, quick. Anders not here but Til try to contact him. Whats the readout? "I want a fast replay on this patterns of chaos business. Maybe Ander can make some sense out of it, but I'm damned if I can. Was Doc in on that last sequence?" On-line the whole way. When he'd finished his fingernails he started on mine. "Charming. What's the general impression?" As we read it, the only thing that's keepin you alive is Cana's fear of somethin' else. God alone knows what that somethin' is, but it either exists or Cana's the biggest nut of the millennium. "Cana's no nut. He's got a pretty powerful brain, but he's well balanced. He's at war with something and it isn't just the Terran Federation. So who or what the hell is it, Jaycee?" Sometimes I wonder if Ananias knows. He makes like a seasick dog at any mention of missiles from Messier #. He won't hear of the idea. "I suspect there's quite a lot that Ananias knows and won't tell. Is he there now?" No. He ran yapping to Genstaff with the coordinates instead of letting them go on standard transmission. I think he has ideas IF of taking you over personally. He hasnt been around long enough to know that workin with you isnt the sort of job you volunteer for. "I could almost wish he'd try. Any idea what kind of vessel the Tantalus might be? It seems to have some special significance for Daiquist and Cana." Computer check through Intelligence records of known Destroyer craft shows no listin. The only Tantalus that shows up anywhere for the last fifty years is the Terran Army's deep-space laboratory ship that got lost somehow a few years back on an experimental voyage beyond the Rim. "See if you can get a bit of detail on it. Might throw up something useful. I'd like a word with Doc if he's still there." Engaged, Bron. Doc Veeder's precise voice fell in soft contrast to Jaycee's edged tones. What's the readout? "Assuming for the moment that Cana is right about the seven cylinders on Onaris being intended specifically for Haltern, don't forget that the man to whom they should have been addressed was Ander, not me. I don't know what a chaos catalyst is -- but if Cana isn't mad or lying you could be sitting on some potential timebomb-type events centered on Ander. I just thought the fact might have slipped your notice." It did. We were concentrating so much on your end that we had forgotten about the substitution. We're not yet convinced about this chaos business, but it might be as well to play safe. Any suggestions? "Yes. Keep him well guarded and hold him available for communication over the transfer link. As I see it, something big is going to happen and he may well be the one person who can make sense of it all. I suggest you put a computer on full-time coincidence checking and feed every atom of even seemingly relevant data to it. This whole business has a decidedly off-beat feeling about it." I don't follow you, but I'll do as you suggest. I'll stay on-line for a bit in case anything new develops. B ron relaxed and closed his eyes. The aide guarding him toyed with his drawn sidearm at the table. Both men waited in silence for the end of the jump and for the next round of action to begin. Bron, his questing mind searching for some stimulus to bridge the hiatus, pushed his perception past the star static and the carrier hiss of the link circuit intruding from under his awareness threshold -- and found something else. Something that, though he knew its shadows, he was completely unprepared to face -- the goose-mutter, the phantom sound of liquid geese -- but louder this time, nearer, and with an articulate and angry urgency that chilled him to the marrow. His mind's initial reaction was to recoil in shock, but his analytical faculty forced him to seek some explanation. A glutinous, viscous, thixotropic foam of a sound, its incomprehensible yet meaningful babble struck him with all the implied urgency and horror of an unalterable disaster bearing down. Again his imagination fled, life-supported on an intangible raft, down the waters of some subterranean Styx, gathering shadows where there was no light and gathering sounds, the origin of which he dared not imagine. He felt the motion of the wash rippling gently at the breaking of some slight turbulence and sensed his own slow and measureless progression down the tunnel toward its end. What end? What lay around the dark bends of that terrible river? Fantasies more terrible than death reared up out of the shades of his imagination. His unashamed scream coincided exactly with the shrill of the break-jump alert and a few seconds later the liquid geese were washed away in the intricate agonies of the end of the subspace jump. L eaning past his escort as the tender left its monstrous parent's womb, Bron grasped the Hockung lens and brought it to bear on their destination. Spaceworthy though she must be, the Tantalus bore none of the look of bronzed efficiency that characterized Destroyer ships. Rather she looked to have been dipped in whitewash that had lost its adhesion and bulged and sagged and stripped. Nor had she the trim outline of a naval craft, being squat and ugly and with a hindpart made hideous and complex by the devices of a dozen different drive systems. If her hull had once had her name emblazoned on it, the legend had long since succumbed to the attrition of space and to corrosion and pitting. "Terran," said Bron subvocally, returning the Hockung lens to the navigator of the tender. Check, Bron. Looks as though it is the Armys long-lost deep-space lab. There's a print from Records just cornin' through, so we can run a comparison to see if she's been modified as a hellburner carrier. "I doubt it. Even if she were capable of throwing a device like that I don't see how she could have achieved an accuracy of plus or minus a meter over that sort of range." Somebody did. From a closer view it was possible to see the effect of the ravages to which the hull of the Tantalus must at some time have been subjected. Huge pits and whorls had penetrated an arm's thickness into the metal in a manIF ner suggesting she had been pressure-hosed with acid. In places the very metal itself seemed to have delaminated and the random curls and blisters of the outer skin in the process of detachment lent the ship a diseased and infected air. However, her docking equipment functioned efficiently enough and Bron, followed by Daiquist and the two aides, stepped through the lock into the warm, trim and quaintly outdated interior. Bron stopped suddenly, his scalp prickling. What is it, Bron? "Something's awfully wrong here. This ship has a very queer feel about it." What kind of wrong? "The weird kind. I can't define it. Has the Tantalus been modified?" Not as far as we can tell. But she did carry conventional weaponry -- as do all Army ships -- and these include Terran hellburriers of the Nemesis class. "The burner that went down on Onaris would have made the punch of. a Nemesis feel like a love bite. Anyway, there was nothing human in the design of that damn thing." Meanin that you re acceptin Cana's point of view that the Onaris burner was both aged and alien. She was coldly critical. Why the hell don't you -- "Spool it, Jaycee! I'm not accepting anything. I'm saying that if what I smell is right we're so far out of our depth that even if we sank at twenty-G acceleration we'd never touch bottom." How do you compute that? "I've just realized what's wrong with this ship. It isn't the Tantalus at all -- at least, not the one that was built. It's a bloody mirror image." Make a little sense, Bron. "Look at the dials and gauges. Look at the labels. Everything. Lateral inversion complete to the last detail. This isn't a Cana stage trick, Jaycee. This is real." Bron became aware suddenly that Daiquist was watching him with a fixed concentration that was actively hostile. Jaycee picked up the same point simultaneously. Watch out for Daiquist, Bron. I think he's trying to use the Tantalus to prove you're a Terran agent. Show any familiarity and you'll betray yourself. "Have the coordinates gone out on general transmission yet?" Don't know. Ananias isn't back. Why? "As soon as the Terran task force is under way and the plan can't be jeopardized I may have to kill Daiquist." quieted suddenly to allow Bron to concentrate as Daiquist turned back toward him. "You're looking puzzled, Bron Haltern." "This ship -- it's not Destroyer manufacture?" "No. Terran. A bit of cosmic flotsam we picked out of the void. It has its uses." "Do Terrans always read meters backwards?" "No. That's just a fragment of chaos. As a specialist in the field, it shouldn't perturb you unduly." Bron broke away from the encounter with a shrug. Nothing in his own training or in the Haltern synthesis had prepared him with an answer. Daiquist's interest in' pursuing the subject was broken as the subspace alert signaled the resumption of the jump. Unlike the Destroyer vessel, the Tantalus slipped into subspace with a mere shiver which was so soft as to be almost sensuous. As they moved into the quiescent phase Bron began to get his bearings and started walking apparently aimlessly through the ship's main installations. He hoped an outward display of academic interest was in keeping with his pose as a syncretist. Inwardly he was looking for vital threads that might aid his own survival. The Tantalus was a small vessel with perhaps only a hundredth part of the displacement of one of Cana's fleshholding spatial dreadnoughts. Since it was only lightly armed and, from its condition. scarcely capable of withstanding an attack, it occurred to Bron to wonder exactly what its function was in the fleet. Its laboratory facilities were well maintained and in use and it was crewed by an unusually high proportion of high-ranking technicians and even a few civilians. Their interest in his arrival ran in strong contrast to Daiquist's dour suspicion. Daiquist shadowed him silently for a while, then approached and took his arm. "Come, I want you to meet the captain -- Academician Laaris." The captain was as untypical of Destroyer personnel as the Tantalus was of their fleet. His chartroom was a mess of improvised instrumentation, among which he moved with the agility of a sprite. He was small and dark and his bright eyes glinted with shrewdness. With only a formal acknowledgment of Daiquist, he forcibly crossed the veins of his wrist with Bron's in the Destroyer familiar greeting. "Mastership 'altern, for you I die!" Bron's surprise at the greeting must have been reflected in his face, for Laaris smiled broadly. "No, we 'ave not met, but I know you well. Everyone who works on chaos knows you. The paper you gave at Maroc on Priam is almost our standard tex'." Bron could not resist the question. "Is that what you're doing on IF the Tantalus -- research into the patterns of chaos?" "But of course." For a moment Laaris looked perplexed. "Is that no' why you come?" "I don't think so." Bron glanced at Daiquist and waited to hear the colonel's explanation. "Haltern's not here of his own free will. He's a prisoner and, we suspect, a spy. For that reason he's under open arrest. Watch him. Captain. He's a dangerous man." Laaris's face was crossed by a bafflement which was rapidly replaced by a smile of relief. "The science of chaos is intergalactic. It is you, Colonel, who fail to comprehen' the liaison between scientific minds. Come 'altern, I will find you cabinspace. Later we can talk chaos." from Daiquist's prying eyes, Bron's contact was urgent. "Jaycee, for God's sake -- haven't you got Ander yet? Either I talk chaos with an expert or Daiquist is set to take me apart." Ander s been located, Bron. We should have him soon. "Are the coordinates on transmission yet?" Ananias has just come in. # ask -- "Put him on-line. Things are becoming critical fast " I dont trust Ananias near the control board. "Damn you, Jaycee. Do as you're told." Well spoken, Bron. Ananias's insinuating tones took over. Glad to find Tm not the only one who has trouble with Honey-bitch. "Spool it, Ananias. Did the coordinates go out yet?" Thats GenStaff s business. "And mine. I'm going to have to make a move soon. If I move too fast the whole Destroyer pack will scatter like a shoal of startled fish." You overestimate yourself, little soldier. "No, but I underestimated you. Look around me, Ananias. Do you see where I am?" On another vessel. Terran, I would guess. "You're not guessing, Ananias. You damn well know. The LabShip Tantalus, no less." Is that supposed to mean something to me? "As I begin to recall it, yes. Are you listening, Jaycee?" On-line, Bron. "This amnesia seems to be catching. Run a replay of the crewlist of the last recorded voyage of the Tantalus.' Don't bother. Ananias's voice was swift and angry. I'll admit it lists me. But you've gone over the edge, Bron. I'm warning you to stay quiet. Don't be a damn fool. "Listen, Ananias, from now on this operation's going to be handled my way. You're going to cooperate, because you haven't the character to stand the stigma of being branded as a freak." The sharp noise of a scuffle penetrated the transfer link. Then somebody screamed with pain. Its all right, Bron. Vm holdin him. He tried to hit the murder button, so I dislocated both his thumbs. Give us the readout. Wed better have the information this end so we can use it in case anythin happens to you. "Yes, you had better. Colonel Ananias, as he was then, commanded the Tantalus on the voyage during which she was lost. As sole survivor he made Terra two years later on a stellar tramp and claimed he was beaten out of space by a Destroyer task force." It was the truth. Ananias's pained protest carried distinctly. "I doubt it," said Bron. "The damage done to this ship was never done by any Destroyer. It's my guess you fled out of the void when something unnamable overtook you. I think you abandoned the Tantalus somewhere to make the story hold, then transhipped to Terra on a tramp. I hate to think what became of the crew." You don t have a single shred of proof. "I don't, but I think you have. Jaycee, you've probably slept with him. Was there nothing unusual?" Hes a Godlost weaklin -- but thaTs nothin unusual. Jaycee's contempt was as sharp as a whiplash. What you meanin , Bron? "Feel under his shirt, Jaycee. If my idea is true you'll find his heart on the right side instead of on the left -- where it was when he was born. I think he became inverted at the same time as the Tantalus. And whatever caused the phenomenon had nothing to do with a human agency." IX RN, Tve got A nder for you. "Put him on-line, Jaycee. He's got about five minutes to bring me up to mastership standard in the theory and practice of chaos." A nder speaking. I do what I can. But I can only give you barest outline. "Reading you, Ander. That will have to suffice. What is this thing called chaos?" The whole spectrum of cause and effect, from the subnuclear to the galactic, considered not as connected incidents but from an entropic standpoint -- as a random dynamic fluid. "I can see the concept, but not how you can use it." I come to that. First let me establish the importance of time as a factor. ITs a fundamental tenet of the universe that entropy increases with time. The only exception is intervention by some form of intelligence, such as Mans, which can locally deIF crease entropy or accelerate its rate several orders above the norm. A knock at the door signaled for Bron's attention. Shrugging his gown to the floor, he went to the door and opened it. "Mastership 'aitern, Academician Laaris would be please' for you to join 'im urgently." "As soon as I have finished my ablutions I shall be ready." Bron freely amplified the weak suggestions of Haltern intolerance. "Tell him I come soon." Securing the latch, he returned to the watcher in his head. "Carry on, Ander. I read the words so far." Dont need them, learn them. They re important. All chaos calculations are made against quantized time and can be either prognostic or retrospective according to the sign. They can be used to predict the future or to examine the elements of the past which have had a significant bearing on the present. "But having randomized all your factors, I don't see how it's possible to determine anything by mathematical treatment." Imagine a container of fluid. "Your entropic system -- molecules in random motion?" Exactly. You should have been scholar, not soldier. The pressure of the fluid is due to the random collision and rebounding of molecules with each other and with the walls of the container. In the hypothetical fluid we call chaos the molecules are replaced by events and the events interact with each other just as do molecules. "Keep going, Ander. I'm still with you. But I'm fast running out of time." Bron found the shower and ran it noisily. "Daiquist'll come looking if I don't show up soon. I wonder what the panic is."  must lead you through this part carefully. Not understanding it could be fatal for you. Suppose your container initially had inhomogeneous areas of fluid at different temperatures? "They would mix by diffusion. The energy of the system would remain the same, but the entropy would slowly increase." Thus you have a fair analogue of the condition of the universe. A nother knock, heavier than the last, came at the door. This time Bron went stark naked and trailing water in his wake. Daiquist stood outside, stern, suspicious and angry. He seemed somewhat mollified to find that the promised ablutions were actually taking place. "You're taking a damn long time, Syncretist. You're needed in the chartroom." "The dust of the Destroyers is uncommonly hard to remove." Bron turned his back on the colonel and stalked back to the shower. Daiquist came into the room and stood impatiently. "I'll wait until you're finished. You'd better hurry. Laaris needs you." "Ander, this is going to be tricky. Keep talking." SubvocallyIf you can grasp the next point we're nearly there. In your container, what would be the effect of heating or cooling small areas of the fluid? "Obviously local accelerations or decelerations of entropy." Bron switched on the driers in the cubicle. And in our chaos fluid, what could be the only cause of the chaos analogue? I've already given you the answer once. "You mean intervention by some form of intelligence such as Man's?" Precisely, Bron. Home and dry. Events precipitated by intelligent intervention invariably lead to alterations in local entropy and these can usually be detected by entropic analysis. Going back to our analogy, this corresponds to local heating or cooling of points in the fluid. If it occurred in an actual fluid it could be detected in a number of ways according to its sign and intensity -- optically, as a local change in diffraction: audibly, perhaps as an explosion or a cavitation implosion: physically, as a shockwave or pressure difference. "And in your theoretical chaos fluid?" An effect similar to that of a spherical shock-wave spreading out from the point of origin -- continuously growing, continuously falling in intensity. It is observable only as minute ripples in the long tides of entropy. It's the inter-ripple and interference of these entropic wave fronts that we call the patterns of chaos. Daiquist was pacing the floor angrily. He was obviously unused to being disobeyed and was distressed by an unstated urgency. Bron drew on his undergarments and then his gown, carefully subvocalizing so that his attentive antagonist should receive no sign. "But how do you detect the ripples?" Detection is the least of the problems. A detector can be as simple as an iron diaphragm in an oxygen atmosphere. Given a measuring system sensitive enough to show the acceleration or deceleration of its natural entropic change, its fairly easy to see the ripples pass. But the mathematical analysis of these ripples into meaningful points of time and place is difficult. Bron creased his brow. His conversation must cease in seconds and he would then need to adopt the pose of an expert. But he dared IF delay no longer. Daiquist drew his firearm and gestured for Bron to precede him along the corridor. Yet Bron's questions still needed urgent answer. "Stay on-line, Ander. You spoke of cause and effect. I can see how you can locate the incident that was the cause of something, but what about locating the effect?" The one is only the converse of the other. There is no difference between them except for the direction in which you read time. Youll be familiar with that concept from your studies of the fundamental particles. Both cause and effect make detectable entropic  sparks' that become the centers of expanding shock spheres. If you can analyze enough of the sphere to be able to determine the radius of its curvature and its intensity you can locate the position of a cause or resultant both in space and time by extrapolating along the geocentric axis. But mark this: the significant thing about a linked cause and resultant is that those two correlated events, and those alone, will have coincident axes. If you can locate the one you can usually find the other. Academician Laaris had somehow lost his vivacity under a cloud of concern. Even his technicians, who had formerly shared his interest in the syncretist's arrival, were now too dumbly attentive to their boards to mark Bron's entrance. Instead of an air of academic interest, the atmosphere was charged with disbelief and panic. " 'altern!" Laaris almost split himself with relief on seeing Bron. " 'altern, this you 'ave to explain." He seized a ten-meter length of chart strip and tore it from the recorder. "Such a chaos wave as this we 'ave never seen before." Bron took the chart strip and began to explore along it. The multicolored lines started with slow excursions, gentle ripples on an abstract shore, part of the everpulsing patterns of chaos. Then a red trace broke away from its fellows, crossed the logarithmic scale to near infinity and was apparently arrested even there only by the inability of the luckless instrument to follow it farther. For several meters the errant trace fought the stop-post on the meter. Then, even more abruptly than it had arisen, the trace fell straight across the graph and disappeared below absolute zero. Somebody said. Holy Moses! deep inside Bron's head. Subvocally: "Did you see that, Ander? I need answers fast." I don't have any. I need more information about the computer scan to be certain. Laaris was upon Bron, almost dancing with impatience to hear the sage explain. The Haltern synthesis stood mute. "Academician Laaris, can you first define the parameters of your computer scan?" "Scan? Scan?" The little man almost hopped with despair. "You don' need computer scan to answer tha'." "You forget," said Bron Haltern coldly, "that your information is presented in Destroyer conventions, not mine." "But always," expostulated. Laaris, "the red line is your reference baseline. 'Ere it is the line representing this ship as a reference point. Where 'as it gone? Where went my ship?" Ander said. Have it now, Bron, and began to pour information into his head. Bron considered the import of the words as he reread the last appearance of the red line. "You don't need me to tell you," he said at last to Laaris. "You know the answer as well as I. We have just entered a chaos-effect shock sphere and are proceeding directly down a coincident axis to the point of origin -- which will be this vessel's complete annihilation." Laaris looked up gratefully. "You, too, 'altern, say the same as I. I thought I was mistaken. Because I don' see how i's possible for the vessel itself to be on coinciden' axis unless somethin' aboard was also the cause of the annihilation." "Curious you should say that," said Daiquist, picking up his gun and looking at Bron meaningly. "Because that's the one point about which I'd never had a doubt." D aiquist motioned to a couple of the crew. "Look after the syncretist while I get this sorted out." He turned back to Laaris. "Am I to understand the chaos evidence means this ship is set for destruction?" "There's no doubt abou' i'." "From what cause?" "That I can' say. The causal wave 'as not shown up. Perhaps if we reset the scan -- " "There's no time. I've seen how accurate chaos evidence can be." He waved an arm in Bron's direction. "Lock him up somewhere." Bron submitted, reading the underlying perplexity on Laaris's brow and equating it with his own. "Ander, tape me in, will you. We've seen an effect wave, but Laaris says the causal wave has not shown up. Can you have an effect without a cause? If not, why haven't we seen the wave?" We will, Bron. "What do you mean?" It had me stumped at first. Laaris had a prognostic scan set up on his computer and was reading IF a future event, the cause of which is missing. Its a highly unique situation even in chaos work, but it can happen. The simple answer is that the cause hasnt yet happened. "But neither has the effect actually happened yet," protested Bron. You re not thinking good chaos, Bron. The destruction of the Tantalus is an event already fixed in the entropic patterns. ITs impossible to alter that fact. But the means by which you are going to achieve its destruction have not yet been determined and therefore have as yet no precise point in the patterns. "The means by which I am going to achieve its destruction?" Yes, Bron. You're the other end of the coincident axes. You're the catalyst that is going to initiate the entropic change. "Not the Stellar fleet, then?" No, or there would already have been a wavefront corresponding to their decision to attack. In fact, from the absence of extraneous lines I'd say the Stellar Commando fleet was not even going to get there. Jaycee on-line, Bron. I just caught the trailing end of that conversation and it computes straight. The Commando raid has been aborted. Disappointment weighted her every word. Bron was staggered. "You have to be joking -- " The coordinates turned out to be Brick's World -- an early settlement planet colonized during the Great Exodus. It's a farm planet, lacking mineral resources. Definitely not a Destroyer baseworld. GenStaff reckons the Destroyers use it for reprovisioning, but if they do they don't stay for more than a few hours. By the time we could get a fleet there the Destroyers could be anywhere in space. "So the mission's a failure?" We're going to keep riding with you in case something shows up, but officially the game is over. "I'm glad you said that, Jaycee. I'm rapidly coming to the point where I'm going to have to take the initiative myself. Is Ananias around?" He's down with the medic, havin' his thumbs put back in joint. Don't think he'll be doin' any maulin' for a few days. Doc's still fightin GenStaff over him, but it looks as if Ananias might win. "I haven't finished with General Ananias. There's a check you can run for me, Jaycee. Find out how much of the equipment we've seen on the Tantalus is Terran original. Ananias used to command Tantalus, so I want to know how much access he might have had to chaos information." Which channel you readin' , Bron? "I want to know how much of this project he could possibly have foreseen, given the right know-how." Engaged, # give you the readout as soon as it comes in.  could rather enjoy reducin' that bastard to a jelly. T he break-jump alert sounded shrilly. The Tantalus slipped out of subspace almost imperceptibly, in contrast to the subtle agonies of the Destroyer maneuver. Bron waited impatiently for release from the cabin in which he had been locked -- he heard indications of the ship's being abandoned. At last the proximity lock responded to an unseen hand. Daiquist stood at the door. 'You have Academician Laaris to thank for this. I'd have been content to let you rot. But he was so impressed by your interpretation of his chaos graphs that he insists that you have the freedom of the facilities which he is unable to employ." "Unable?" "On chaos evidence, this ship is set for destruction. We've taken Laaris and his crew to another ship for safety. You'll remain aboard with a skeleton crew who will place the Tantalus into a safe orbit. If the Tantalus survives that long you'll be fetched down and held until Cana decides what to do with you. The skeleton crew has instructions to shoot you if you attempt to interfere with the running of the ship. Apart from that you're free to make your own way to hell." Thoughtfully Bron watched the last tender leave. The only men who were left aboard the Tantalus were hard-lipped Destroyer shipmen, clannish technological animals, molded in the inbuilt ruthlessness that characterized Destroyer operations. Bron ignored them and made for the computer terminal, his mind beginning to play with the several possibilities the situation presented. Nevertheless he waited until the Tantalus was actually back in subspace before he dared to make any kind of move. Actuating a programer, he began to key figures into the input, working by touch on the laterally inverted keyboard and deliberately avoiding watching either his own fingers or the acceptance readout. What you doin', Bron? "Exercising my fingers. There are a few throats I've got to keep them in trim for." Her voice grew taut. Let me see those figures for the recorders. You know the rules. "Spool it, Jaycee. You had your run and it got us nowhere. Now jet off while I do it my way." Are you defy in' me, Bron? Her voice was archly incredulous. IF "I don't give a damn about you. Go ply your bitchiness where it's appreciated."  said let me see those figures, Bron. I dont want to have to use the punishment circuits on you. "Don't fool yourself. You'd just love the opportunity. It's the justification you're lacking." She did not respond. The program completed, he activated the transfer of the data to the computing complex unexamined, not wishing to expose his position by scanning the tape for the benefit of Jaycee's recorders. rm warnin' you, Bron. Perhaps you've forgotten what sort of bite  can apply. "Call Doc, Jaycee," said Bron wearily. "If I've forgotten, he'll no doubt remind me." He was now watching the intermediate readouts as the computer fled through the calculations. Over the transfer link he could hear Jaycee's voice raised in vitriolic protest. Then the voice of Doc came clear upon the air. What the hell's this about, Bron. You should know better than to cross Jaycee. He sounded infinitely tired. "Turn off the recorders. Doc, and listen. What kind of game is Ananias playing?" You're not alone in wondering. He must have a personal deity on the General Staff to allow him to get away with what he does. In answer to your earlier question, it seems he did have access to a lot of chaos equipment. "Was it he who suggested the Destroyers should be allowed to raid Onaris unmolested?" Yes -- 'but it was in accordance with the outline plan. Bron watched the readouts with growing comprehension. "Was the Onaris hellburner in the plan too?" No. That was something we hadn't foreseen. We wouldn't have let the Destroyers hit Onaris if we'd known about that. "You wouldn't, perhaps. But what about Ananias?" Naturally not -- "There's nothing natural about it -- or him." Bron saw the "calculation complete" signal come up on the board and activated the printout. "I have a theory that Ananias knew that hellburner was going to go down on Onaris and I think he knew it a long time ago. I think he knew it as surely as he knew where and when the Destroyers were going to pick me up. Don't underestimate Ananias. He knew in advance that the Destroyers' subspace coordinates would not ever lead to Brick's World." But they did. "No, Doc, they didn't. Ananias double-crossed you." #S The Stainless Steel Rat could do few things rightbut nothing at all wrong! I carried an attache case filled with the usual things -- grenades, gas bombs, explosives, nose filters, a gun or two -- just the normal tools of the trade. My back was straight, my shoulders square and I entered the paymaster's office in a most martial manner if only to do the uniform justice -- a spanking new goldstriped and beribboned uniform of a commander in the United States Navy. "Good morning," I snapped briskly, closing the door behind me and locking it at the same time, swiftly and silently, with the tool concealed in my hand. "Yes, sir." The grizzled chief petty officer behind the desk spoke politely enough but it was obvious that his attention was rreally upon his work, the papers piled neatly upon his desk, and strange officers simply had to wait their turn. Just as sergeants do in all armies, the chiefs run the navies. Sailors hurried about on naval financial matters and through a doorway opposite I had a view of the gapemouthed gray form of a government issue safe. Lovely. I put my case on the chief's desk and snapped it open. "I read about it in the newspaper," I said. "About how the military always rounds its figures updollars when asking for appropriations. I admire that." "Aye aye, sir," the chief muttered, his fingers punishing the comptometer keys, uninterested in either my reading ability or in any comments from the press. "I thought you would be interested. But that gave me the idea. Share the wealth. With such liberality there should be plenty to spare for me. That is why I am going to shoot you. Chief." That got his attention. I waited until the eyewidening and jawgaping reached their maximum, then pulled the trigger on the long barreled pistol. It went shoof and thudded in my hand and the chief grunted and slipped from sight behind the desk. All of this had taken but a moment and the others in the office were just becoming aware that something was wrong when I turned and picked them off one by one. Stepping over the litter of bodies, I poked my head into the inner office and called out. "Hoo-hoo, Captain, I see you." He turned from the safe, growling some nautical oath, and caught the needle in the side of his neck. He folded as quickly as the others. My drug is potent, swift and soporific. Already snores were IF rising from the room behind me. The payroll was there, stacks of crisp bills arranged neatly in a nest of trays. I snapped open my folding suitcase and was reaching for the first bundle of green goodness when the glass crashed out of the window and the gun hammered bullets in my direction. ever wanted me perforated had fired through the glass I would have been thoroughly punctured by the lead slugs the people of this time favored, but he had not. His pausing to break the glass before firing had given me that fraction of a second to take the kind of action always suspicious reflexes are constantly waiting for. I was over and back in a tumbling roll, minibombs from my sleeve holdout dropping into my fingers even before I hit the floor. Both flash and smoke. They thudded and flared and the air was instantly opaque. I sent more after the first and the firing stopped. I wriggled along the floor like a snake and, with the bulk of the safe between myself and the window, began stuffing the bag full of money, working by touch. The circumstance that I was trapped and in mortal danger was no reason to leave the loot. If I was going to all this trouble I ought at least to be paid for it, I felt. Dragging both bags behind me I crawled toward the outer office and was about to go through the doorway when the loudhailer blared outside. "We know you're in there. Come out and surrender or we'll gun you down. The building is surrounded. You don't have a chance." The smoke thinned out near the door and, standing in the darkness, I could see through the windows that the voice had been speaking the truth. There were trucks out there, presumably loaded with hard-eyed and armed SP's. As well as jeeps with heavy machine guns mounted in their rears. Quite a reception committee. "You'll never take me alive," I shouted, sowing smoke and flare bombs in all directions -- I even dropped a larger grenade that took out part of the rear wall. Under cover of all this excitement I crawled over to the sleeping chief and peeled off his jacket by touch. A lad of long service, he had more stripes than a tiger and hash marks up to his elbows. I threw my jacket aside and donned his, then traded hats as well. The people outside seemed to have set an elaborate trap, which meant they knew more about me than I cared to have them know. But this knowledge could be turned against them by a swift change in rank. I flipped a few more bombs about, put my gun into my pocket, picked up both bags and unlocked and flung the front door open. "Don't shoot -- " I called out in a hoarse voice as I stumbled out into the fresh air and stood in the open doorway, a perfect target. "Don't shoot -- he's got a gun in my back. I'm a hostage -- " I tried to look terrified, which required little effort when I saw the small army facing me. I staggered forward a half step and looked over my shoulder, letting everyone get a good view of me while attempting to ignore the feeling that I had a bull's-eye painted on my chest, the big black spot right over my heart. No one fired. I stretched the moment a bit, then dived off the steps. "Shoot. Get him! I'm clear -- " The result was most spectacular. All of the guns let go at once, blew the door from the frame and the glass from the windows. The whole front of the building became as perforated as a collander. "Aim high -- " I called out, crawling for the protection of the nearest jeep. "All our guys are on the floor."  and began to separate the top of the building from the bottom. I crept past the jeep and an officer came over to me and collapsed as I broke a sleep-gas capsule under his nose. "The lieutenant's hit," I cried as I shoved him and the bags into the back of the jeep. "Get him out of here." The driver was very obliging and did as ordered, barely giving me time to get in myself Before we had gone five meters the gunner was sleeping next to the lieutenant, and as soon as the driver shifted into high gear he dozed as well. Getting him out of the seat and getting myself into it was tricky while bouncing along at a good clip, but I managed it. Then I stood on the gas pedal. It did not take them long to catch on. In fact the first of the jeeps was after me even as I was stuffing the driver in back with the others. This barrier of bodies was a blessing -- because of it no more guns were going off. But they certainly were in hot pursuit. I did a sharp turn around a building and sent a platoon of boots jumping for cover, then took a fast look at the pursuers. My! Twenty, thirty vehicles of all kinds tore along after me. Cars, jeeps, trucks, even a motorcycle or two, passing each IF other, horns and sirens going, having a wonderful time. Jim diGriz, benefactor of mankind. Wherever I go happiness follows. I turned into a large hangar and rushed between rows of parked helicopters. Mechanics dived aside in a cloud of flying tools as I skittered between the machines in a tight turn back toward the open front. As I emerged on one side my followers were rushing in at the other. Very exciting. Helicopters -- why not? This was Bream Field, the self-proclaimed helicopter capital of the world. If they could fix the things they could fly them. By now the entire naval station would be locked tight and surrounded. I had to find another way out. Off to one side the green glass form of the tower loomed up and I headed in that direction. The flight line was before me and a fatbellied helicopter stood there, motor rumbling and blades swishing slowly. I squealed the jeep to a stop below the gaping door. When I stood up to throw my bags into the copter a heavy boot kicked out at my head. The people here had been alerted by radio, of" course -- as probably had everyone else in a hundredmile radius. It , was annoying. I had to duck, grab the boot and wrestle with its owner while my horde of faithful followers roared up behind me. The boot's owner knew entirely too much about this kind of fighting so I cheated and shortened the match by shooting him in the leg with one of my needles. Then I threw the money into his machine, hurled some sleep-gas grenades after it -- and finally myself. Not wanting to disturb the pilot, who was snoring at the controls, I slipped into the copilot's seat and bugged my eyes at the dials and knobs. There were certainly enough of them for such a primitive device. By trial and error I managed to find the ones I wanted, but by this time I was surrounded by a solid ring of vehicles and a crowd of white-hatted cluband gun-bearing SP's were fighting to be first into the copter. The sleep gas dropped them, even the ones wearing gas masks, and I waited until I had a full load, then pulled the throttle full on. T here have been better takeoffs but, as an instructor once told me, anything that gets you airborne is satisfactory. The machine shuddered and shimmied and wallowed about. I saw men diving for safety below and felt the crunch of the landing gear against the top of a truck. Then we were up and sagging away in a slow turn. Toward the ocean and the south. It was not chance alone that had led me to this particular military establishment when my funds ran low. Bream Field is situated in the lower corner of California with the Pacific Ocean on one side and Mexico on the other. Which is as far south and as far west as you can go and stay in the United States. I no longer wished to stay in the United States. Not with what looked like all of the navy and marine helicopters in the country rumbling up after me. I'm sure the fighter planes were on the way. But Mexico is a sovereign nation, a different country, and the pursuit could not follow me there. I hoped. At least it would pose some problems. And before the problems had been solved I would be long gone. As the white beaches and blue water flew by beneath me I worked on a simple escape plan. And familiarized myself with the controls. After a bit of trial and error and a few sickening lurches I found the automatic pilot. A nice device that could be set to hover or to follow a course. Just what I needed. The mere sight of it provided my plan, complete and clear. Below me the border rushed up, then the bull ring and the pink, lavender and yellow houses of a Mexican beach resort. They swept by and the grim coastline of Baja California began. Black teeth of rocks in the foam, sand and sharp gorges cutting down to the sea, gray mesquite, dusty cactus. An occasional house or campsite. Dead ahead a rocky peninsula jutted out into the ocean and I pulled the machine up over it and down on the other side. The rest of the copters were only seconds behind me. Seconds were all I needed. I set the controls to hover and climbed down among the sleeping defenders of the law. The ocean was about ten meters below, the great spinning rotors sending up clouds of spray from it. I threw both my bags out into the water and had turned to inject the pilot in the neck even before the bags hit. He was stirring and blinking -- the sleep-gas antidote is almost instantaneous -- as I set the robot pilot for forward flight and dived for the open door. It was a close thing. The copter was moving forward at full blast as I tumbled into the air. It wasn't much of a dive but I did manage to get my feet down so they hit first. I went under, swallowed some water, coughed, swam up and banged my head on one of the floating bags. I congratulated myself on my foresight in having bought the new non-sinkable type. But the waIF ter was far colder than I had thought it would be and I was shivering and a cramp was beginning in my left leg. The bag gave me some support so that, kicking and floundering, I splashed over and grabbed the other one. As I secured my gains a mighty roar came overhead as the rumbling crowd of helicopters hurtled past like avenging angels. I'm sure that no one in them was looking down at the water -- all attention seemed fixed upon the single copter rushing south ahead of them. Even as I looked this machine began to bob and turned in a slow arc. A delta-wing jet appeared suddenly, diving past it, coming up and around. I had a little time but not very much. And could see absolutely no place to hide on the exposed rock of the peninsula or the bare sand of the shore. Improvise, I told myself as I paddled and puffed toward the shore. They don't call you Slippery Jim for nothing. Slip out of this one... The cramp took over and all I felt like doing was slipping under the water. Then firm sand was under my feet and I staggered, gasping, up onto the beach. den. Camouflage, one of mother nature's original tricks. The angry copters were still buzzing about on the horizon as I began to dig furiously at the sand with my bare hands. Stop, I ordered myself and sat up, swaying. Use your brains not your muscles -- lesson number one... Of course. I slipped an explosive grenade into my hand, triggered it and dropped it into the shallow hole, then dived aside. It whoomphed satisfactorily and sent up a spray of sand. And left a tidy crater that was just the right size for the two bags. I hurled them into it and began to undress frantically, throwing my clothes after the bags. The copters must have been chatting with each other -- they were turning and starting back down the beach. Entirely by chance, vanity had goaded me into putting on purple underwear this morning -- it could easily pass for swimming attire from a distance. I stripped down to shorts and kicked sand into the hole, covering everything. By the time the first copter swished by overhead I was lying face down and sunning myself, just another swimmer on a beach. They swept overhead in a line. I sat up and looked at them as anyone would with all this going on. Then they were past -- bobbing up over the rocky spine -- and gone, motors rumbling out of hearing. But not for long -- I heard and saw them again. Whoever was in charge had ordered a sweep in line abreast covering the ocean, beach and hills. Now they were slower, searching every inch of the way, undoubtedly with high-powered glasses. Time for another swim. I shivered when the spray curled around my ankles and knew I was turning blue as the water crept ever upwards. A wave broke over my head and then I was swimming. A copter came to hover over me, sending up clouds of spray. I shook my fist up at it and shouted realistic curses into the sound of its engine. Someone was leaning out of the open doorway, calling to me, but I was not listening. After a certain amount of fist-shaking I submerged and swam underwater, trying to make my one uncramped leg do the work of two. The copter was swinging away after the others as I painfully made my way ashore again and sprawled on the sand so the wind and sun could dry me. Now how did I get out of here? II out of sight I dug like a mole and unearthed my clothing and the bags, rushing them up the beach above the high water mark. Another bomb and another interment, only this time I put on my trousers and shoes -- and made sure some of my equipment went into the pockets. A few quick cuts transformed the long-sleeved uniform shirt into a short-sleeved sport shirt. As this clothing began to dry it lost all resemblance to any part of a military dress. Before leaving I scuffed and dragged the sand to obliterate all signs of digging and took careful triangulations of some large inland peaks so I could find the spot again. Then I headed for the coast road that passed a few hundred meters away. My luck held. I had no sooner climbed into the northbound lane when a beetlelike machine with high wheels came rushing towards me. I raised my thumb in the universal gesture and was answered by a squealing of brakes. I saw now that powered surfboards were sticking out of the vehicle's back. Two tanned young men sat in the front, their garments even more disarrayed then mine. A fashion, I knew, so perhaps they took me for one of their own. "Man, you look wet," one commented as I climbed into the back. "Baby, I was high and took a watery trip." IF "Gotta try that some time," the driver answered and the machine hurled itself down the road. Less than a minute later two hulking black sedans with flashing lights and howling sirens tore down the road in the opposite direction. The large letters side and required little linquistic knowledge to translate. My new friends, refusing the offer of refreshment, let me off in downtown Tijuana and raced away. I sat at an outside table with a large tequila, lime and salt, and realized that I had just escaped from a carefully planned trap. And a trap it was. That was obvious now that I had time to stop and think about it. All those jeeps and trucks had not appeared out of thin air and it is doubtful that amount of firepower could have been organized so quickly even if an alarm had gone off. I went back over my motions, step by step, and was absolutely sure that I had activated no alarms. So how had they known what was going to happen? They knew because some timehopper had read the newspapers after the event then had jumped back in time to give the warning. I had been expecting this to happen -- but that did not mean I had to enjoy it. I licked the salt from the base of my thumb, downed the bulk of the tequila and bit hard into the lime. The combination tasted marvelous as it burned a course of acid destruction down my throat. He was alive. I had wiped out his organization in this happy year of # A.D. but He had gone on to bigger and worse nastiness in another era. The time war was on again. Now He and his madmen wanted to control all history and all time, an insane idea that might very well succeed, since they had already wiped out the Special Corps in the future, the one lawabiding organization that might have beaten them. Or rather they had wiped out all of the Corps except me, while I had bounced into the past to wipe out the wiper-outers and in doing so restore the Corps to the probable paths of future history. Big assignment, of which I had accomplished ninetynine point nine percent. It was the vital one-tenth of a percent that was still causing trouble -- the monster He, who had escaped me at the end of a time helix even though he had been nicely peppered with exploding slugs from my gun. Probably had armored guts. Next time I would use something stronger. An atomic bomb on his breakfast tray. time helix could be built to whip me back to the future -- rather, ahead to the future -- grammar leaves a certain amount to be desired when it comes to traveling through time. Backahead to the arms of my Angelina and the acclaim of my peers. But not right now since they did not even exist. Time war is tricky and can become confusing. I was glad that I did not need to know the theory but could just be whipped back and forth by others like a temporal paddle-ball to do my violent best at whatever the assignment required. There was little difficulty in obtaining a car and digging up the money early the next morning, although certain plainclothes observers had to be induced to sleep soundly instead of doing their jobs. Smuggling the money back into the United States was even easier and before noon I was in the offices of Whizzer Electronics, Incorporated, in San Diego. A large and complete laboratory, a small front office with a not too bright receptionist -- and that was it. I had set the place up as best I could and it was up to Professor Coypu now to take over. "Do you understand. Professor?" I asked, talking to the small black box with his name on it. "All set up and ready to go." I shook the box. "Some day you must tell me how your memories can exist in this recorder if you don't exist or won't exist in this galaxy because He and his nuts have destroyed the Corps. Better some day you don't tell me. I'm not sure I really want to know." I held the box up and gave it a scan around the room. "The finest equipment stolen money can afford. Every up-todate research tool I could lay my hands on. Stocks of spare parts of all kinds. A supply of raw material. Catalogs from all the electronic, physical and chemical manufacturers. A large bank balance to draw upon to buy what you need. A pile of signed checks waiting to be filled out. Language lessons neatly taped. Instructions, a history of what has happened, the works. Over to you. Professor, and take it easy with this body. It's the only one we have." Before I could change my mind I lay back on the couch, stuck the contact from the memory box to the back of my neck and turned on the switch. Whats happening? Coypu asked, slithering into my mind. "A lot. You're in my brain, Coypu, so don't do anything dangerous." Most interesting. Yes, your body IF indeed. Let me move that arm now, stop interfering. In fact why dont you go away for a bit while  see what is happening. "I'm not so sure that I want to." "No!" I shouted -- not that it did any good. A formless blackness pressed down on me and I spiraled out of sight into a greater darkness below, pushed away by Coypu's electronically magnified memories... time goes by so slowly T he black box was in my hand, rough white letters across its front. My fingers were on a switch that Memory returned and I staggered mentally and looked around for a chair so I could sit down. Until I discovered that I was already sitting down, so I sat harder. I had been away and someone else had been running my body. Now that I was back in charge I could detect faint traces of memories of work, a lot of work, a great period of time, days, perhaps weeks. There were burns and callouses on my fingers and a new scar on the back of my right hand. A tape recorder rustled to life -- a timer must have turned it on -- and Professor Coypu spoke to me. "To begin with -- do not do this again. Do not allow this recorded memory of my brain into control of your body. Because I can remember everything. I remember that I no longer exist. This brain-in-a-box is all there may ever be of me. If I turn off the switch I cease to be. The switch may never be turned on again. Probably won't. This is suicide and I am not the suicidal type. Impossibly hard to touch the switch. I think I can do it now. I know what is at stake. Something a lot bigger than the pseudolife of this taped brain. So I will do my best to turn the switch. I doubt I could do it a second time. As I said, don't do this again. Be warned." "I'm warned. I'm warned," I muttered, turning off the tape while I found myself a drink. Coypu was a good man. The bar was stocked as I had left it and a treble malt whisky on the rocks cleared some of the muzziness from my head. I settled down and turned the tape on again. "To business. Once I began investigating it became obvious why these temporal criminals chose this particular epoch. This society is just bursting into the age of technology, yet the people still have their minds in the dark ages. Their nationalism is sheer folly; their pollution, criminal; their intraglobal wars, madness -- " "Enough lecturing, Coypu, on with the show." " -- but there is no need to lecture on this subject. Suffice it to say that all the materials for a time helix are available here. And the societal setup is such that a major operation of time tinkering can successfully be concealed. I have constructed a time helix and it is coiled and set. I have also built a time-tracer and with it have ascertained the temporal position of this creature called He. For reasons best known to him He is now operating out of the fairly recent past of this planet, some one hundred and seventy years ago. I am only guessing now, but I think his entire present operation is a trap. Undoubtedly for you. In some manner I cannot discover he has erected a time block before the year eighteen-o-five. So you cannot return to an early enough period to catch him as he is building his present establishment. Be wary, he must be working with a large force. I have marked the controls so you can pick any of the five years after eighteen-o-five during which they are operating. In a city named London. The choice is yours. Good luck."went after more drink, depressed. Some choice. I could pick my own year to get blasted. Nip back into the prescientific past and shoot it out with the minions of He. Even if I won -- so what? I would be stranded there for life, stuck in time. A dismal prospect. Yet I had to go. In reality I only had the illusion of choice. He was tracking me down in the year # and the next time he might very well succeed in polishing me off. Far better to carry the fight to him. Rah-rah. I took more drink and reached for the first book on the long shelf. Coypu had not wasted his time. In addition to wiring up all the hardware he had collected a neat little library about the years in question, the opening decade of the nineteenth century. London was my destination and I soon realized that the name of one man was of utmost importance to my mission. Napoleoni Buonaparte. Yes -- Napoleon the First, Emperor of France and most of Europe and almost the world. His megalomaniacal ambitions rang a bell, for they differed hardly at all from He's own ambition. There was no IF coincidence here; there had to be a connection. I did not yet know what it was, but I was dismally sure that I would find out quickly enough. In the meantime I read through all the books on the period until I felt I knew what I had to know. The only bright spot in the whole affair was the fact that England spoke a variety of the same speech as America, so I would not have to put up with any more brainpuncturing language lessons with the memorygram. Of course there was the matter of local dress, but Coypu had gathered more than enough illustrations of the period to show me what was needed. In fact a theatrical outfitter in Hollywood supplied me with a complete wardrobe, from kneepants and buttoned jackets to great cloaks and beaver hats. The styles of the time were quite attractive and I took to them instantly, concealing a number of my devices in their voluminous folds. Since I would return to the same time in time whatever time I left the present time I took my time with the arrangements. But, eventually, I ran out of excuses. The moment had come. My weapons and tools were adjusted and ready, my health was perfect, my reflexes keen, my morale low. But what must be done must be done. I appeared in the front office and the receptionist gaped up at me chewingummily from over her confession magazine. "Miss Kipper, draw up a salary check for four weeks for yourself in lieu of notice." "You don't like my work?" "Your work has been all that I desired. But due to mismanagement this firm is now bankrupt. I am going abroad to dodge my creditors." "Gee, that's too bad." "Thank you for your solicitude. Now if I can sign that check -- " We shook hands and I ushered her out. The rent was paid for a month ahead and the landlord was welcome to the equipment left behind. But I had fixed a destruct on the time helix apparatus that would operate after I had gone. There was enough tinkering with time as it was and I felt no desire to bring any more players into the game. into the spacesuit with all my clothes on. In the end I had to take off both boots and jacket and strap these outside with the rest of my equipment. Heavily laden, I waddled over to the control board and braced myself for a final decision. I knew where I would arrive and, following Coypu's instructions, had set the proper coordinates into the machine days earlier. London was out of the question -- if He's minions had any detection apparatus at all they would spot my arrival. I wanted to arrive far enough away geographically so they would not spot me, but close enough so I would not have to suffer a long journey by the primitive transportation of the time. Everything I had read about it caused me to shudder. So I compromised on the Thames Valley near Oxford. The bulk of the Chilterns would be between me and London and their solid rock would absorb radar, zed rays or any other detection radiation. Once I had arrived I could make my way to London by water, a matter of some one hundred kilometers, rather than by the ghastly roads of the period. That was where I was arriving -- when was another matter. I stared intensely at the neatly numbered dials as though they could tell me something. They were mute. A time barrier had been set up at #, I could not arrive earlier. # itself seemed too much of a trap, they would surely be ready, waiting and alert at that time. So I had to arrive later. But not too much later or they would have accomplished whatever evil they had in mind. Two years, then -- not too long for them to work, but enough time so that they might -- hopefully -- be a little off guard. I took a deep breath and set the dials for #. And pressed the actuator. In two minutes the timer would cut in full power. With leaden feet I shuffled toward the glowing green coil of the time helix and touched the barlike end. As before, there was no sensation, just the glow surrounding me so that the room beyond was hard to see. The two minutes seemed closer to two hours, although my watch told me there were more than fifteen seconds to go to springoff. This time I closed my eyes, remembering the uneasy sensations of my last time hop. I was tense, nervous and blind when the helix released and hurled me back through time. The experience was not enjoyable. As the helix unwound I was whipped into the past while its energy was expended into the future. An interesting concept that did not interest me in the slightest. For some reason this trip churned up my guts more than the last one had and I was very occupied with convincing myself that whoopsing inside a spacesuit is a not nice thing. When I had this licked I realized that the falling sensation was caused by the fact IF that I was falling -- I snapped open my eyes to see that I was in a pelting rainstorm. And dimly seen, close below, were sodden fields and sharp-looking trees rushing up at me. After some panicky fumbling with the wrist control for the gravchute I managed to turn it on full and the harness creaked and groaned at the sudden deceleration. I creaked and groaned too as the straps felt as though they were slicing through my flesh to the bone beneath -- which they would quickly abrade away. I honestly expected my arms to drop off and my legs to fly by when I crashed down through the small branches of a waiting tree, caromed off a larger branch and smacked into the ground below. Of course the grav-chute was still working on full lift and as soon as the grassy slope had broken my fall I was up and away again, hitting the branch a second lick for luck on the way by and springing up out of the treetop in a great welter of twigs and leaves. Once more I fumbled for the control and tried to do a better job of it. I drifted down, around the tree this time, dropped like a sodden feather onto the grass and lay there for a bit. "A wonderful landing, Jim," I groaned, feeling for broken bones. "You ought to be in the circus." I realized after a painpill had cleared my head and numbed my nerve endings. I looked around through the lessening rain, but could see no one -- or any sign of human habitation. Some cows in the adjoining field grazed on, undisturbed by my dramatic appearance. I began to unburden myself under the shelter of the large tree. The first thing off was the collapsible container I had constructed with great ingenuity. It opened out and assembled into a brassbound leather chest typical of the period. Everything else, including the spacesuit and grav-chute fitted into it. By the time I had loaded and locked it the rain had stopped and a frail sun was working hard to get through the clouds. The hour was mid-afternoon at least, I judged by its height. Time enough to reach shelter by nightfall. But which way? A rutted path through the cowfield must lead somewhere so I took that downhill, climbing the drystone fence to reach it. The cows rolled round eyes in my direction but otherwise ignored me. They were large animals, familiar to me only through photographs, and I tried to remember what I had heard about their pugnacity. These beasts apparently did not remember either and did not bother me as I went down the path, chest on shoulder, ready to face the world. The path led to a stile that faced onto a country lane. Good enough. I climbed over and was considering which direction to take when a rustic conveyance made its presence known by a great squeaking and a wave of airborne effluvium carried by the breeze. It clattered into sight soon after, a two-wheeled wooden artifact drawn by a singularly bony horse and containing a full load of what I have since determined to be manure, a natural fertilizer much valued for its aid to crops and its ability to produce one of the vital ingredients of gunpowder. The operator of this contrivance was a drab-looking peasant in shapeless clothes who rode on a platform in front. I stepped into the road and raised my hand. He tugged on a series of straps that guided the pulling beast and everything groaned to a stop. He stared down at me, chomping empty gums in memory of long-vanished teeth, then reached up and knuckled his forehead. I had read about this rite, that represented the relationship of the lower class to the upper classes, and knew that my choice of costume had been correct. "I am going to Oxford, my good man," I said. "Ey?" he answered, cupping one grimy hand behind his ear. "Oxford!" I shouted. "Aye, Oxford," he nodded in happy agreement. "It be that way." He pointed back over his shoulder. "I'm going there. Will you take me?" "I be going that way." He pointed down the lane. I took a golden sovereign out of my wallet, purchased from an old coin dealer, more money in one lump than he had probably seen in his entire lifetime, and held it up. His eyes opened wide and his gums snapped nicely. "I be going to Oxford." T he less said about this ride the better. While the unsprung dungmobile tortured the sitting part of my anatomy my nose was assaulted by its cargo. But we were at least going in the correct direction. My chauffeur cackled and mumbled incomprehensibly to himself, wild with glee at his golden windfall, urging the ancient nag to its tottering top speed. The sun broke through as we came out of the trees and ahead were the gray towers of the university, pale against the darker slate gray of the clouds, a very attractive sight indeed. While I was admiring it the cart stopped. IF "Oxford," the driver said, pointing a grubby finger. "Magdalen Bridge." I climbed down and rubbed my sore hams, looking at the gentle arch of the bridge across the small river. A thud came next to me as my chest hit the ground. I started to protest but my transportation had already wheeled about and was starting back down the road. Since I was no more desirous of entering the city in the cart than he was of taking me I didn't protest. But he might at least have said something. Like goodbye. It didn't really matter. I shouldered the chest and strode forward, pretending I did not see the blue-uniformed soldier standing by the shack at the end of the bridge, holding a great long gunpowder weapon of some sort that terminated in what appeared to be a sharp blade. But he saw me well enough and lowered the device so it blocked my way and pushed his dark-bearded face close to mine. "Casket vooleyfoo?" he said, or something like that. Impossible to understand, a city dialect, perhaps, since I had had no trouble understanding the rustic who had brought me here. "Would you mind repeating that?" I asked in the friendliest of manners "Koshown onglay," he growled and whipped the wooden lower end of his weapon up to catch me in the midriff. This was not very nice of him and I showed my distaste by stepping to one side so the blow missed and returned the favor by planting my knee in his midriff instead. He bent in the middle so I chopped him in the back of the neck when that target presented itself. Since he was unconscious I seized his weapon so it would not be actuated when it dropped. All of this had happened in the shortest of times. I was aware of the wide-eyed stares of the passing citizenry, as well as the ferocious glare of another soldier in the doorway of the ramshackle building. He was raising his own weapon toward me. This was certainly not the way to make a quiet entrance into the city, but now that I had started this escapade, I had to finish it. With the thought the deed. I dived forward, which enabled me to put down my chest while I avoided the weapon at the same time. I heard an explosion and a tongue of flame shot past my head. Then the butt of my newly acquired weapon came up and caught my latest opponent under the chin. He went back and down with me right behind him. If there were others inside it would be best Ill to tackle them in the enclosed space. There certainly were other soldiers, a goodly number of them. After taking care of the nearest ones with a little dirty infighting I triggered a sleep gas grenade to silence the rest. I had to do this -- but I didn't like it. Keeping a wary eye on the door I quickly mussed the clothing and kicked the ribs of the men who had succumbed to the gas in order to suggest that they had been felled by violence of some kind. Now how did I get out of this? Quickly was the best idea since the citizenry would have spread the alarm by now. Yet when I reached the doorway I saw that the passersby had drawn close and were trying to see what had happened. When I stepped outside they smiled and shouted happily and one of them called out loudly. "A cheer for his lordship! Look what he done to the Frenchies!" Glad cries rang out as I stood there, dazed. Something was very wrong. Then I realized that one fact had been nagging at me ever since I had my first look at the colleges. A flag was flying proudly from atop the nearest tower. But where were the crossed crosses of England? This was the tricolor of France. this one out a man in plain brown leather clothes pushed through the cheering crowd and shouted its members into silence. "Get home, the lot of you, before the frogs come and kill you all. And don't say a word about this or you'll be hanging from the town gate." Looks of quick fear replaced the people's elation and they began to move at once, all except two men who pushed past me to pick up the weapons strewn about inside. The sleep gas had dispersed so I let them pass. The first man touched two fingers to his cap and came up to me, "That was well done, sir, but you'll have to move out quick because someone will have heard that shot." "Where shall I go? I've never been to Oxford before in my life." He looked me up and down quickly, in the same way I was sizing him up, and came to a decision. "You'll come with us." It was a close run thing because I heard the tread of heavy marching boots on the bridge even as we nipped down a side lane burdened with the guns. But these men were locals and knew all the turnings IF and bypaths and we were never in any danger that I could see. We ran and walked in silence for the better part of an hour before we reached a large barn that was apparently our destination. I followed the others in and put my chest on the floor. When I straightened the two men who had been carrying the guns took me by the arms, while the man in leather held what appeared to be an exceedingly sharp knife to my throat. "Who are you?" he asked. "My name is Brown, John Brown. From America. And what is your name?" "Brewster." Then, without changing the level tone of his voice. "Can you give me reason why we should not kill you for the spy you are?" I smiled calmly to show him how foolish the thought was. Inside I was not calm at all. Think fast, Jim, because a knife kills just as thoroughly as an Abomb. What did I know? French soldiers were occupying Oxford. Which meant that they must have invaded England successfully and occupied all or part of it. There was resistance to this invasion -- the people holding me proved that -- so I took my clue from this fact and tried to improvise. "I am here on a secret mission." Always good. The knife still pressed against my throat. "America, as you know, sides with your cause -- " "America helps the Frenchies. Your Benjamin Franklin has said so. "Yes, of course, Mr. Franklin has a great responsibility. France is too strong to fight now, so we side with her. On the surface. But there are men like me who come to bring you aid." "Prove it?" "How can I? Papers can be forged. They would be death to carry in any case and you wouldn't believe them. But I have something that speaks the truth. I was on my way to London to deliver it to certain people there." "Who?" Had the knife moved away the slightest amount? "I will not tell you. But there are men like you all over England, who wish to throw off the tyrant's yoke. We have contacted some of the groups and I am delivering the evidence I spoke of." "What is it?" "Gold." T hat stopped them. I felt the grip on my arms lessen. I pressed the advantage. "You have never seen me before and will probably never see me again. But I can give you the help you need to buy weapons, bribe soldiers, help those imprisoned. Why do you think I assaulted those soldiers in public today?" "Tell us," Brewster said. "To meet you." I looked slowly around at their surprised faces. "There are loyal Englishmen in every part of this land who hate the invaders, who will fight to hurl them from these green shores. But how can they be contacted and helped? I have just shown you one way -- and have provided you with these arms. I will now give you gold to carry on the struggle. As I trust you, you must trust me. If you wish you will have enough gold to slip away from here and live your lives out happily in some kinder part of the world. But I don't think you will. You risked your lives for those weapons. You will do what you know is right. I will give you the gold and then go away. We will never meet again. We must act on trust." "Sounds good to me, Brewster," one of the men said. "Me, too," said the other. "Let's take the gold." "I'll take the gold if there's any to be taken," Brewster said, lowering the knife but stilf uncertain. "It could all be a lie." "It could be," I said quickly, before he started punching holes in my flimsy story. "But it isn't -- nor does it matter. You'll see that I'm well away tonight and we will never meet again." "The gold," my guard said. "Let's see it," Brewster said. I opened the chest with utmost care while a gun was kept pressed to my kidney. I had the gold -- that was the only part of my story that was true. It was divided into a number of small leather bags and intended to finance this operation -- as it was doing now. I took out a bag and solemnly handed it to Brewster. He shook some of the glittering granules into his hand and they all stared. I pushed. "How do I get to London?" I asked. "By river?" "Sentries guard every lock of the Thames," Brewster said, still looking at the golden gravel upon his palm. "You wouldn't get as far as Abingdon. By horse is the only way, Back roads." "I don't know the back roads. I'll need two horses and someone to guide me. I can pay -- " "Luke, here, will take you," he said, finally looking up. "Used to be a drayman. But only to the walls. You'll have to get past the Frenchies yourself." "That will be fine." So London was occupied. And what about the rest of England? IF Brewster went out to take care of the horses and Guy produced some coarse bread and cheese, as well as some ale which was more welcome. We talked -- rather, they talked and I listened, occasionally putting in a word but afraid of asking questions that might prove my almost total ignorance. But a picture finally developed. England was completely occupied and pacified, had been for some years -- the exact number was not clear -- although fighting was still going on in Scotland. There were dark memories of the invasion, of great cannon that did terrible damage. The Channel fleet had been destroyed in a single battle. I could detect the cloven hoof of He behind a lot of it. History had been rewritten. Y et this particular past was not the past of the future I had just come from. My head started to ache, thinking about it. Did this world exist in a loop of time, separate from the mainstream of history? Or was it an alternate world? Professor Coypu would know, but I did not think he would enjoy being plucked out of his memory tape again just to answer my questions. I would have to work it out without him. Think, Jim, put the old brainbox into gear. You take pride in what you call your intelligence -- so apply it to something beside crookery for a change. There must be some form of logic here. Statement A: in the future this past did not exist. B: it sure exists now... But C might indicate that my presence here would destroy this past, even the memory of this past. I had no idea of how this might be accomplished, but it was such a warm and cheering thought that I grabbed onto it. Jim diGriz history-changer, world-shaker. It made a pleasant image and I treasured it as I dozed off on the hay -- and awoke not too long afterward scratching at insect life that was after my hot body. The horses did not arrive until after dark and we agreed that it would be best to leave at dawn. I managed to get some bug spray out of my chest to kill off my attackers so I enjoyed a relatively peaceful night before the ride in the morning. The ride! We were three days en route and before we reached London even my saddle sores had saddle sores. My primitive companion actually seemed to enjoy the trip, treating it as an outing of sorts, chatting about the country we passed through and getting falling, down drunk each evening at the inns where we stopped. We had crossed the Thames above Henley and made a long loop to the south, staying away from all sizable centers of population. When we reached the Thames again at Southwark, London Bridge was before us and the roofs and spires of London beyond. A little hard to see because of the high wall that stretched along the opposite riverbank. The wall had a crisp, clean look to it, far different from the smoke-stained gray of the rest of the city -- and a sudden thought struck me. "That wall -- it's new, isn't it?" "Aye, finished two years back. Many died there, women and children, everyone driven like slaves by Bony to put it up. Right around the city it goes. No reason for it -- just that he's mad." There was a reason for it and, ego-flattering as it was, I still didn't like it. That wall was built for me, to keep me out. "We must find a quiet inn," I said. "The George, right down here." He smacked his mouth loudly. "Good ale, too, the best." "You enjoy it. I want something right on the river, within sight of that bridge there." "Know just the place -- the Boar and Bustard on Pickle Herring Street, right at the foot of Vine Lane. Fine ale there." T he foulest brew was fine with Luke as long as it contained alcohol. But the Boar and Bustard suited my needs perfectly. A disreputable establishment with a cracked signboard above the door depicting an improbable looking swine and an even more impossible looking bird squaring off at each other. There was a rickety dock to the rear where thirsty boatmen could tie up -- and a room I could have that looked out on the river. As soon as I had arranged for the stabling of my horse and argued over the price of the room I bolted the door and unpacked the electronic telescope. This produced a clear, large detailed, depressing picture of the city across the river. It was surrounded by that wall, ten meters high of solid brick and stone -- undoubtedly bristling with detection apparatus of all kinds. If I tried to go under or over it I would be spotted. Forget the wall. The only entrance I could see from this vantage point was at the other end of London Bridge and I studied this carefully. Traffic moved slowly across the bridge because everything and everyone was carefully searched before they were allowed to enter. French soldiers probed and investigated everything. And one by one the people were led through a doorIF way into a building on the other side of the wall. As far as I could tell they all emerged -- but would #? What happened in that building? I had to find out and the ale room below was just the place. Everyone loves a freespender and I was all of that. The one-eyed landlord muttered and snaffled to himself and managed to find a drinkable bottle of claret in his cellar. This bottle I kept for myself. The locals were more than happy to consume blackjack after blackjack of ale. These containers were made of leather covered with tar, which added a certain novelty to the flavor, but the customers did not seem to mind. My best informant was a bristle-bearded drover named Quinch. He was one of the men who moved the cattle from the pens to the knackers' yard, where he also assisted the butchers in their bloody tasks. His sensibilities, as one might suspect, were not of the highest, but his capacity for drink was and when he drank he talked and I hung from every word. He entered and left London every day and bit by bit, through the spate of profanity and abuse, I put together what I hoped was an accurate picture of the entrance procedures. There was a search, that much I could see from my window. At times a close search, at other times superficial. But there was one part of the routine that never varied. Every person entering the city had to put his arm into a hole in the wall of the guardhouse. That was all, just put it in. Not touch anything at all, just in up to the elbow and out. Over this I brooded, sipping my wine and ignoring the roars of masculine cheer around me. What could they detect from this? Fingerprints perhaps, but I always wore false fingerprint covers as a matter of routine and had changed these three times since the last operation. Temperature? Skin alkalinity? Pulse or blood pressure? Could these residents of what to me was the dim past differ in some bodily composition? It was not unreasonable to expect some changes over a period of more than # years. I had to find out the present norms.constructed a detector that could record all of these factors and hung it inside my clothing. The pickup was disguised as a ring that I wore on my right hand. The next evening I shook hands with everyone I could, finished my wine and retired to my chamber. The recordings were precise. accurate to  # and very revealing -- of the fact that my personal readings fell well inside all the normal variations. You are not thinking, Jim, I accused myself in the warped mirror. There has to be a reason for that hole in the wall. And the reason is a detection instrument of some kind. What does it detect? I turned away from the accusing stare. Come, come, dont evade the question. If you cannot answer it that way turn it on its head. What is it possible to detect? This was more like it. I pulled out a piece of paper and began to list all the things that can be observed and measured, going right down the frequencies. Light, heat, radio waves, etc., then off into vibration and noise, radar reflections, anything and everything, not attempting to apply the things detected to the human body. Not yet. I did this after I had made the list as complete as possible. When I had covered the paper I shook hands with myself triumphantly and reread it for human applications. Nothing. I was depressed again. I threw it away -- then grabbed it back. Something, what was it, something relating to something I had heard about Earth. What? Where. There! Destroyed by atomic bombs Coypu had said. Radioactivity. The atomic age was still in the future, the only radioactivity in this world was natural background radiation. This did not take long to check. Me, creature of the future, denisen of a galaxy full of harnessed radiation. My body was twice as radioactive as the background count in the room, twice as radioactive as the hot bodies of my friends in the bar when I slipped down to check them out. Now that I knew what to guard against I could find a way to circumvent it. The old brain turned over. Soon I had a plan and well before dawn I was ready to attack. All of the devices secreted about my person were of plastic, undetectable by a metal detector if they had one working. The items that were made of metal were all in a plastic tube less than a meter long and no thicker than my finger that I coiled up in one pocket. In the darkest hour before the dawn I slipped out and stalked the damp streets looking for my prey. And found him soon enough, a French sentry guarding one of the entrances to the nearby docks. A quick scuffle, a bit of gas, a limp figure, a dark passageway. Within two minutes I emerged at the opposite end wearing his uniform his gun on my shoulder and carried in the correct French IF manner. With my tube of devices down its barrel. Let them find that metal with a detector. My timing was precise and when, at the first light, the straggling members of the night guard returned to London, I was marching in the last row. I would enter, undetected, the ranks of the enemy. A foolproof scheme. They wouldn't examine their own soldiers. More fool I. As we marched through the gate at the far end of the bridge I saw an interesting thing that I could not see with my telescope from my window. As each soldier marched around the corner of the guardhouse he stopped for a moment under the cold eyes of a sergeant and thrust his arm into a hole in the wall. IVI' tripped over the uneven footing on the bridge. I did not know what it meant, but it was the most common word the French soldiers used and seemed to fit the occasion. With this I stumbled into the soldier next to me and my musket caught him a painful blow on the side of the head. He yelped with pain and pushed me away. I staggered back, hit my legs against the low railing and fell into the river. I managed it neatly. The current was swift. I sank beneath the surface and clamped the musket between my knees so I wouldn't lose it. After that I surfaced just once, splashing at the water and screaming wordlessly. The few soldiers on the bridge milled about, shouting and pointing. When I was sure I had made the desired impressioa I let my wet clothes and the weight of the gun pull me under again. The oxygen mask was in an inside pocket and it took only seconds to work it out and pull the strap over my head. I cleared the mask of water by exhaling strongly and breathed in pure oxygen. After that it was just a matter of a slow easy swim across the river. The tide was ebbing and the current would carry me well downstream from the bridge before I landed. So I had escaped detection, lived to regather my forces and fight again -- and was totally depressed by my complete failure to get past the wall. I swam in the murky twilight and tried to think of another plan, but it was not exactly the best place for cogitation. Nor was the water that warm. Thoughts of a roaring fire in my room and a mug of hot rum drove me on for what seemed an exceedingly long time. Eventually I saw a dark form in the water ahead -- it resolved into the hull of a small ship tied up at a dock. I could see the pilings beyond, I stopped under the keel, worked my tube of instruments out of the musket and also took everything out of my coat. The gun stuffed into the jacket sleeve made a good weight and both vanished toward the river bottom. After some deep breathing I took off the oxygen mask and stowed that away as well, then surfaced as quietly as I could next to the ship. To look up at the coattails and patched trousers of a French soldier sitting on the rail above me. He was industriously polishing the blue-black barrel of a singularly deadly looking cannon that projected next to him. It was far more efficient looking than any of the nineteenth century weapons I had seen -- in fact, it did not belong to this period at all. Out of more than casual interest I had made a study of weapons available in the era I had recently left so I recognized this one as a An ideal weapon to mount on a light wooden ship, since it could be fired without jarring the vessel to pieces. It could also accurately blow any. other wooden ship out of the water long before the other's muzzle-loading cannon were within range. Not to mention destroying armies in the field. A few hundred of these weapons brought back through time could alter history. And they had. The soldier above turned and spat into the river -- I sank beneath the surface again and vanished among the pilings. There were boat steps farther downriver and out of sight of the French ship. I surfaced there -- no one was in sight. Dripping, cold, depressed, I climbed out of the water and hurried toward the dark mouth of the lane between the buildings. Someone was standing there and I scuttled by -- then decided to stop. B ecause he put the muzzle of a great ugly pistol into my side. "Walk ahead of me," he said. "I will take you to a comfortable place where you can get dry clothing." Only he did not say clothing -- it sounded more like cloth-eeng. My captor had a French accent. All I could do was follow instructions, prodded on by the primitive hand cannon. A savage relic or not, it could still blow a nice hole in me. At the far end of the lane a coach had been pulled up to block the lane completely. The door gaped open in unappreciated welcome. IF "Get in," my captor said, "I am right behind you. I saw that unfortunate soldier fall from the bridge and drown and I thought to myself, what if he had been on the surface? What if he were a good swimmer and could cross the river, where would he land when moved along by the current? A neat mathematical problem -- which I solved and vo#a, there you were coming out of the water." The door slammed. The coach started forward and we too were alone. I fell forward, dropped, turned, lunged, grabbed for the pistol -- and seized it by the butt because my captor now had it by the barrel and was holding it out to me. "By all means, you hold the gun, Mr. Brown, if it pleases you, it is no longer needed." He smiled as I gaped, scowled and leveled the pistol at him. "It seemed the simplest way to convince you to join me in the carriage. I have been watching you for some days now and am convinced that you do not like the French invaders." "But -- you are French?" "But of course. A follower of the late king, a refugee now from the land of my birth. I learned to hate this pipsqueak Corsican while people here were still laughing at him. But no one laughs any longer and we are united in one causo. But, please, let me introduce myself. The Count d'Hesion -- but you may call me Charles, since titles are now a thing of the past." "Pleased to meet you, Charley." We shook on it. "Just call me John." The coach clattered and groaned to a stop before this interesting conversation could be carried any further. We were in the courtyard of a large house and, still carrying the pistol, I followed the count inside. I was still suspicious but there seemed little to be suspicious of. The servants were all ancient and tottered about muttering French to each other. Knees creaking, one aged retainer poured a bath for me and helped me to strip, completely ignoring the fact that I still held the pistol while he soaped my back. Warm clothes were provided, and good boots, and when I was alone I transferred my armory and devices to my new clothing. The count was waiting in the library when I came down -- he was sipping from a crystal glass filled with interesting drink. A brimming container of the same stood close beside him. I handed him the pistol and he handed me a glass of the beverage in return. It glided down my throat like warm music and sent a cloud of delicate vapor into my nostrils the like of which I had never inhaled before. "Forty years old, from my own estate, which as you can tell instantly is in Cognac."  him. Nobody's fool. Tall and thin with graying hair, a wide forehead, lean, almost ascetic features. "Why did you bring me here?" I asked. "So we could join forces. I am a student of natural philosophy and I see much that is unnatural. The armies of Napoleon have weapons that were made nowhere in Europe. Some say they come from far Cathay, but I think not. These weapons are served by men who speak very bad French, strange and evil men. There is talk of even stranger and more evil men at the Corsican's elbow. Unusual things are happening in this world. I have been watching for other unusual things and am on the lookout for strangers. Strangers who are not English, such as yourself. Tell me -- how can a man swim across a river under water?" "By using a machine." There was no point in silence -- the count knew very well what he was asking. With those dark cannon out there there was no point in maintaining secrecy about the nature of the enemy. His eyes had widened at my reply but he took time to finish his drink. "I thought so. A machine unknown here -- save to you. And I think you know more about these strange men and their weapons. They are not of the world as we know it, are they? You have knowledge of them and you are here to fight them?" "They are from a place of evil and madness and they have brought their crimes with them. And I am fighting them. I cannot tell you everything about them because I don't know the entire story myself. But I am here to destroy them and everything they have done." "I was sure of it. We must join forces and I will give you whatever help I can." "You can begin by teaching me French. I have to get into London and it appears that I will need to speak it." "But is there time?" "An hour or two will do. Another machine." "I am beginning to understand. But I am not sure that I like all these machines." "Machines cannot be liked or disliked -- they are immune to emotion. We can use them or misuse them, so the problem of maIF chines is a human problem, too. "I bow to your wisdom -- you are, of course, right. When do we begin?" I returned to the Boar and Bustard for my things, then moved into a room in the count's house. A head-splitting evening with the memorygram -- headache is a mild word for the side effects of using this memory-cramming machine -- taught me conversational French and, to the count's pleasure, we conversed in that language. "And the next step?" he asked. "I need to take a closer look at one of those pseudo-Frenchmen who seem to be running things. Do they ever appear alone on this side of the river -- or if not alone, in small groups?" "They do, but their movements follow no set pattern. Therefore I shall obtain the most recent information." He rang the silver bell that stood next to the decanter. "Would you like one of these individuals rendered unconscious or dead and brought to you?" "You are too kind," I said, holding out my glass so that the servant who had appeared soundlessly could refill it. "I'll handle that end of the business myself. Just point him out and I'll take over from there." T he count issued instructions. The servant slipped away. I worked on my drink. "It will not take long," the count said. "And when you have the information -- do you have a plan of action?" "Roughly. I must enter London. Find He, the top demon in this particular corner of hell, then kill him, I imagine. And demolish certain machinery." "The upstart Corsican -- you will remove him, too?" "Only if he gets in the way. I am no common murderer and find it difficult to kill at any time. But my actions should change the entire operation. The new weapons will no longer be supplied and will soon run out of ammunition. In fact -- the interlopers may vanish altogether." The count raised one eyebrow but was kind enough not to comment. "The situation is complex, in fact I do not really understand it myself. It has to do with the nature of time, about which I know very little. But it seems that this past, the time we are living in now, does not exist in the future. The history books to come tell us that Napoleon was beaten, his empire wiped out, that Britain was never invaded." "It should only be!" "It may be -- if I can get to He. But if history is changed again, brought back to what it should have been, this entire world as we know it now, may vanish." "A certain risk must be taken in all hazardous enterprises." The count remained cool and composed, moving one hand in a slight gesture of dismissal as he talked. An admirable man. "If this world disappears it must mean that a happier one will come into existence?" "That's roughly it." "Then we must press on. In that better world some other I will be returning to my estates. My family will live again. There will be flowers in the spring and happiness in the land. Giving up this life here will mean little -- it is a miserable existence. Though I would prefer that knowledge of this possibility stay locked in this room. I am not sure that all of our assistants will accept such a philosophical viewpoint." "I agree heartily. I wish it could be some other way." 'Do not concern yourself, my dear friend. We will talk of it no longer." and viniculture and the hazards inherent in the manufacture of distilled beverages. Time moved quickly -- as did the count's men -- and even before we started on a second decanter he was called out to receive a report. "Admirable," he said upon his return, rubbing his hands together with pleasure. "A small party of the men we seek are even now disporting themselves in a knocking shop in Mermaid Court. There are guards about, but I presume they offer no barrier to your operation?" "None," I said, rising. "If you will be kind enough to provide some transportation and a guide I promise to return within the hour." This was done and I performed as promised. A morose individual with a shaven head and badly scarred face took me in the carriage and pointed out the correct establishment. I entered the building next to it, an office of some kind, now shuttered and locked with a monstrous piece of hardware most difficult to open. Not that the lock mechanisms were beyond me -- never! -- but they were so big that my lockpick couldn't reach the tumblers. My knife did, though, and I went through and up to the roof and crossed over to the roof of the next ' building, where I attached the end of my spiderweb to the most solid of the collection of chimneys. IF The strand of the web was fine, almost invisible and practically unbreakable, made up of a single long-chain molecule. It ran slowly off the reel that was fastened by a harness to my chest and I dropped toward the dark windows below. Dark to others. But the dual beams of ultraviolet light from the projectors on my UV sensitive goggles turned all light to day for me wherever I looked. I entered the window silently, caught my man with his pants down, rendered him and his companion unconscious with a dose of gas and had him dozing in my arms and back up to the roof as quickly as the fiercely whirring spiderweb reel could lift us. Minutes later my prize was snoring on a table in the count's cellar, while I spread out my equipment. The count looked on with interest. "You wish to obtain information from this species of pig? I do not normally condone torture but this seems to be an occasion for hot pokers and sharp blades. The crimes these creatures have committed! It is said the New World aborigines can flay a person com"Sounds jolly, but there will be no need." I lined up the instruments and hooked up the contacts. "Machines again. I shall keep him unconscious and walk through his mind with spiked boots, even a worse torture in many ways. He will tell us what we need to know without ever knowing he has spoken. Afterward he is yours, you see. "Thank you, no." The count raised disgusted hands. "Whenever one of them is killed the civilians suffer from reprisals. We will knock this one about a bit, rob him and dump him in an alley. Our treatment of him will resemble a simple crime." "The best idea yet. Now I begin." Going through that mind was like swimming in a sewer. Insanity is one thing -- and he was certifiably insane -- but outright evil is inexcusable. I had no problem extracting information, just in sorting it out. He wanted to speak his own language but finally settled for French and English. I plumbed, picked and probed and eventually discovered all I needed to know. Jules, my companion of the shaved head, was called in for the pleasurable sport of roughing up the subject and dumping him -- stripped of his uniform -- while the count and I returned gratefully to the unfinished carafe. "Their headquarters appears to be in a place called St. Paul's. You know of it!" "Sacrilege -- they halt at nothing. The cathedral, the masterpiece of the great Sir Christopher Wren, it is here on the map." "The one named He is there -- and apparently all the machinery and instruments as well. But to reach it I must enter London. There is a good possibility that I might be able to pass the wall in his uniform since his body has the same radioactivity count as mine, a test they use to detect strangers. But there may be passwords, other means of identification, perhaps speaking in their own language. What is needed is a diversion. Do you have anyone with a knowledge of gunnery among your followers?" "Certainly. Rene Dupont is a former major of artillery, a most knowledgeable soldier. And he is in London." "Just the man. I am sure he will enjoy operating one of those high-powered guns. We shall capture a gunship before dawn. The bombardment will start at first light when the gates are opened. A certain number of shells through the gate, guardhouse and guard should be disconcerting. Then the boat will be abandoned and the gunners will escape on foot. This will be the responsibility of your men." "It will be a pleasurable task that I shall personally supervise. But where will you be?" "Marching into the city with the troops, as I tried to do once before." "Most hazardous! If you are too early you will be apprehended as you appear -- or perhaps destroyed in the bombardment. Too late and the gate will be sealed against entry." "So we'll have to time the operation accurately." "I will send for the finest chronometers obtainable." V faced and gray-haired man with an impressive rotundity of belly. But he was energetic enough and knew his gunnery and was now consumed with a fierce passion to operate the invaders' incredible weapon. The former crew of the gunboat, including the lookouts, slept a deeper sleep than they had planned below decks while I worked out the mechanism of the recoilless cannon and explained it to the major. He grasped it instantly and beamed with fierce joy. After his experience with irregular cannon barrels, muzzleloaded, uneven shot, slow-burning powder and all the rest of the IF handicaps of his trade this weapon was a revelation to him. "Charge, fuse, and projectile in the same casing -- marvelous! And this lever swings open the breach?" he asked. "Correct. Keep away from these vents when firing -- the exhausted gas from the explosion comes out here, canceling the recoil. Use the open sights -- the range is short. I imagine there will be no need to allow for windage at this distance and there will also be scarcely any projectile drop. The muzzle velocity is much greater than you are used to." "Tell me more," he said, stroking the smooth steel. Step two. The count would see to it that the ship was moved upstream before dawn and anchored to the embankment below London Bridge. I would see to it that I arrived on the bridge at the agreed time. The count's nautical chronometer was as big as a cabbage, handmade of brass and steel, and it clacked loudly. But he assured me of its accuracy and we set it from my atomic watch, as big as my fingernail and accurate to within one second a year. This was the last thing to be done and as I rose to leave he put out his hand and I took it. "We will always be thankful for your aid," he said. "There is new hope now among the men and I share their enthusiasm." "It is I who should be thanking you for the help. Considering the fact that my winning might be the worst thing for you." He dismissed that thought as unimportant -- a brave man. "In dying we win as you have explained. A world without these swine is victory enough. Even if we are not there to witness it. Do your duty." I did. Trying to forget that the fate of worlds, civilization, whole peoples rested upon my actions. A slip, an accident, and it would be all over for everyone. There could therefore be no accidents. As mountain climbers do not look down and think about the drop below, I put thoughts of failure from my mind and tried to think of a joke to cheer myself up. None came to mind instantly so I thought instead about putting paid to He and his operation and this was cheering indeed. I looked at my watch. It was time to leave so I went quickly, without looking back. The streets were deserted; all honest men were home in bed. Behind me the first gray of approaching dawn touched the sky. L ondon is full of dark alleys that provide ideal sites for lurking. I lurked craftily within sight of London Bridge and watched as the first soldiers appeared. Some marched in step, some straggled, all looked tired. I was feeling tired myself so I sucked on a stimtab and kept an eye on my watch. Ideally I should be oh the bridge when the firing began, far enough from the gate not to be hit, yet close enough to get through it during the excitement after the barrage. From my vantage point I timed various groups of soldiers crossing the bridge until I had a good estimate. The digits rolled by on my watch and at the proper moment I took a military brace with my shoulders and stepped out smartly'Lortytort?" a voice called out -- and I realized it was calling to me. I had been so concerned with the time I had stupidly ignored the fact that He's futurefiends would be crossing the bridge as well. I waved, made an evil grimace and stepped out smartly. The man who had called out looked puzzled -- then hurried after me. By my uniform he knew I was one of his gang, but one unfamiliar to him. He probably wanted to ask me how things were back in the home asylum. I wanted no conversation with him, particularly since I didn't speak his language. I hurried on -- painfully aware of his footsteps behind me. Then I realized I was going too fast and at my present pace would reach the gate just in time to be blown up. There was no time to curse my lack of awareness -- my problem was just a matter of picking what kind of trouble I wanted. Getting myself blown up was a little too much to get involved with now. I could see that the gunboat was in position and that figures were on deck. Wonderful. I could already almost hear the explosions. With me in the middle of them. I would have to stop here -- at the appointed spot. I did. Heavy footsteps hammered up behind me and a hand caught at my shoulder, spinning me about. "Lorry#M?" he cried out. Then the expression on his face changed, his eyes widening, his mouth opening. "BV#! he shouted. He recognized me, perhaps from photographs. is the word," I said and shot him in the neck with the narcotic needle gun I had palmed. Another cry of came and one of his teammates pushed through the soldiers and I had to shoot him, too. This naturally interested everyone nearby. I heard startled shouts and saw a certain amount of weapon liftIF Your personalized horoscope is intended to reveal: Your strengths, weaknesses, natural abilities -- potential financial benefits -- best career fields -- romantic and social potential -- types of people you relate to best -- time periods to be bold or cautious -- and much more! SCmCB ? Whatever it is. Astrology has fascinated mankind for more than # years -- and today has more followers than ever! Can there possibly be anything to it? Find out for yourself. Order your own Personalized Horoscope now. it is available to you at a special low rate -- thanks to the wedding of modem computer technology with the enormous body of astrological "knowledge" built up over the centuries. If nothing else, your #-page Personalized Horoscope is sure to entertain you. And who knows, it may give you new enlightenment about yourself! CompM by CompuMt Include # check or money order made out to: Horoscope Offer Send to: Horoscope Offer P.O. Box #, G.P.O. Name Add rets : City State Zip My Date of Birth: Month Day Year A.M. My Time of Birth: P.M. (circle one) . (If time is unknown, # noon will be used) My Place of Birth: (check one)  Eastern Time Zone  Pacific Time Zone  Central Time Zone  Foreign  Rocky Mt. Time Zone Allow # weeks for delivery of horoscope. Offer void where prohibited by law. The decision to believe or reiect the report is that of the recipient. ing. I put my back to the bridge parapet and wondered if I would have to shoot the entire French army. I did not. The first shell, not too well aimed by the major of horse artillery, hit the bridge not ten meters from where I was standing. The explosion was considerable and the air was filled with hurtling pieces of masonry and steel. I dropped -- as did all the others, some permanently -- and I took the opportunity to put needles into all the nearest soldiers who had witnessed my earlier shootout. Back on the boat Dupont was learning to master his weapon and the next shell struck the city wall. There was much shouting and running about among the men on the bridge and I shouted and milled with the best of them, looking on with pleasure as the next shell whistled cleanly through the gate and blew up the guardhouse inside. Now most of the motion was away from the gate, as well it should be, so I dropped and wormed my way closer on my belly. Shells were now bursting in and around the gate and causing a satisfying amount of destruction. A quick look at my watch informed me that it was almost time for the barrage to lift. The signal would be a shell hitting the wall far from the bridge. After this a few more shots would be fired for effect at targets of opportunity -- but no more at the gate. The shell struck the wall a good hundred meters downriver, blowing a neat hole in it. I jumped to my feet and ran. Wreckage and crumbled masonry were everywhere. Dust and the reek of high explosive hung in the air. If any survivors of the bombardment were left they had long since vanished. I scrambled over the rubble, slid down the other side and nipped around the first corner. The only witnesses to this unstealthy entrance was a couple watching from a doorway, English by their dress, who turned and ran as soon as they saw me. Despite my little tangle on the bridge the plan had worked perfectly. The cannon on the river began firing again. This was not part of any plan, not at all. Something had gone wrong. After the last shots my accomplices were to have retreated to shore and removed themselves to safety. Then two explosions sounded, almost at the same time. The cannon could not fire that fast. Another gun was shooting. IF The street I was on, Upper Thames Street, ran parallel to the wall. I was far enough from the bridge now for my presence not be associated with the action there -- and a ladder led up to an observation platform on the top of the wall. Perhaps prudence should have dictated a singleminded continuation of my plans. But I have spent many years not listening to that particular voice and I was not prepared to start now. One quick look around -- no one in sight -- and up the ladder. The observation post was unoccupied. From it I had a perfect view of the action. The major was still manning his gun, busily firing away at another gunboat that was coming upriver under full sail. The newcomer, even though handicapped by a moving platform, was more experienced and accurate with his weapon. A shell had already blown a great hole in the stern of my ally's boat and even as I watched another hit amidships and the gun was silent, its barrel in the air and the gunner gone. A figure ran across the dock and dropped into the crippled ship. I dug out my electronic telescope and trained it on the deck, knowing what I would see even before I put it to my eye. The count had come to the aid of his troops. But even as he jumped aboard, the major rose, blood running down his face, and manned the gun again. It swung about, aiming at the other boat, and hit it squarely with the next shot right at the waterline below the enemy weapon. The second gun was silenced -- the ship was sinking. When I looked back at the major again I saw that he had retrained his cannon and was firing at the bridge, at the enemy soldiers there. The count was loading for him. They both were smiling and seemed to be enjoying themselves. The firing continued, faster now, and I let myself back down the ladder. Neither of them could be blamed -- they knew exactly what they were doing. They were firing back at last at the enemy they had hated all these years, using a superior and highly destructive weapon. Both would stay there in action until they were cut down. Perhaps they wanted it that way. If this sacrifice were to have any value at all I had to get on with my own job. I had studied the count's map. My immediate course lay along Duck's Foot Land to Cannon Street and then left. People were about now, frightened civilians hurrying by, soldiers marching on the double in the opposite di rection. No one paid any attention to me at all. And there, up ahead at the end of the street, the great bulk of the walls and dome rose -- unmistakably St. Paul's. The end of another road was near. My final meeting with He. VI liar -- or mad -- who claims never to have felt fear. I have been touched by it often enough to recognize its smell, but never have I felt the iron hand clamping down as it did now. Ice water in the veins, a hammering in the heart, a rooted feeling in the feet. With a decided effort I grabbed my brain by the throat, no mean feat that, and gave it a good shaking. Speak, brain, I commanded. Why this sudden case of acute chickenitis? Why the yellow stripe right down the back as far as the heels? Body and brain, we have been in tight spots before, even narrower ones. But we bulled through and came out on the other side. Usually victors. What is new here? The answer came back quickly. As a rustproof rodent I had penetrated behind the walls of society, doing it on my own and standing or falling on my own. Adventure, rah-rah. But now too much was riding on the bet -- too many people's lives depended upon my actions. The future survival of the entire galaxy might be at stake. It was almost unbelievable. "Make it unbelievable," I muttered, digging in my medikit. If I kept dwelling on what was at stake I would take no risks, probably take no action. I have never resorted to artificial morale before, but there is a first time for everything. I carried berserker pills as a sort of amulet -- I knew they were there if I ever needed them, therefore I had never needed them. Until now. I clicked open the case and brushed the dust off an innocent looking capsule. "Get out there and fight, Jim," I said and swallowed the thing. They are outlawed everywhere and for good reasons. Not because they are habit forming to a great degree, both physically and psychologically, but for social reasons. Inside the gelatin capsule lies a specific form of madness, a compound that dissolves the conscience and morality of civilized man. Superld takes over. No morals, conscience -- or fear -- survive it. Nothing remains but a great chunk of ego and the sure knowledge of might and right, diIF vine permission to do anything and not to feel concern or fear while doing it. Politicians loaded on berserkerite have toppled regimes and controlled worlds. Athletes have broken all sports records, often destroying themselves or their opponents in the process. Not nice stuff. Very nice stuff. I had one fleeting instant of conscience and. realization of change as the chemicals took hold of my brain, but it passed even as it began. "I have come for you. He," I said, smiling with genuine joy. This was power unlimited, the most exhilarating sensation I had ever experienced, a cleansing wind blowing out all the dusty corners of my brain. Do what you want Jim, what you will because you are the only power in the world that really counts. How blind I had lived for years. Cramped by small moralities, puny affections for others, destructive other-orientated love. How crippled I had been. I love myself because I am God, At last I understood the meaning of God that the old religions were always mumbling about.  am L the only power in the universe, And He is in that building ahead, thinking with mortal foolishness that he can best me, stop me, even kill me. Now we shall see what happens to idiot plans like h is... ises. A solid enough structure, no apparent guards, undoubtedly loaded with detection apparatus. A subtle or secret approach would not be wise. The only advantage I could have was surprise, that and the ability to be absolutely ruthless. I was well armed, a walking engine of death, and no one would stop me. Entry would be simple enough, others were going in and out constantly, all in the same uniform I was wearing. I sensed a buzz and a disturbed whine to this beehive at the present. They did not like the attack on the gate. I had to strike now while they were disturbed. All devices at the ready and instantly available I completed my lei surely circuit of the building and started up the white stone steps at its front. The cathedral was immense, appearing even larger with all the pews and religious furniture cleared away. I stalked down the length of the long nave as though I owned it, weapons ready. The nave was deserted and all the activity was concentrated at the far end in the apse where the altar usually stood. In its place loomed an ornate throne. He sat on it. Arrogant with power, great red body leaning forward to issue orders to his assistants below. A long table reached across the transept, littered with maps and papers and surrounded cers. They seemed to be taking their orders from a man in a simple blue uniform coat. He was short and wore a black lick of hair across his forehead. From descriptions I recognized Napoleon -- passing on instructions from He as I had expected. I knew I was smiling as I shifted my finger tips closer to my armament. A familiar crackling of light caught my attention from the secondary apse off to the right and my smile broadened. The gleaming machinery of a time helix was stuffed in there, surrounded by technicians bent over their tasks. They would be dead soon, like everyone else here. And I would have temporal transportation out of this barbarian era. I would have to leave a small atomic grenade behind me when I left. The end was just in sight. No one paid the slightest attention to me as I came up to the table. I would have to use sleep gas first since this would work on them all at the same time. Plenty of time to kill the slaves after I had removed their master. One concussion grenade, two thermite grenades. I triggered them with my thumb and threw them, one -- two -- three, in high arcs into He's lap. While they were still in the air I rolled handful after handful of gas grenades down the table under the shocked faces of the officers. The grenades were still hissing and banging as I spun about and used my needle gun -- I didn't want to injure the controls -- to shoot down the technicians around the time helix. It was all over in a matter of seconds. Quiet descended as the last man fell. Before turning back I hurled grenades down the length of the nave so that anyone entering would walk into the gas cloud. Then I looked at He. Lovely. A roaring pillar of fire with something in its core that might have been a man. The throne burned as well and the column of greasy smoke roiled up towards the great dome above. "You are beaten -- " I shouted leaning forward across the table to get a better look. He would not be surviving this attack. Napoleon lifted his head from the table and sat up. "Don't be foolish," he said. I wasted no time in thought but tried to kill him. But he was ready and fired before I did with a tubelike weapon concealed in his IF palm. Fire washed across my face, then it was numb. My body went lifeless, died, though I could hear and see. I dropped face down onto the table. I could not feel Napoleon's hands when he rolled me over but I could see him looking down at me, smiling. I could hear him roaring with victorious laughter that held more than an echo of madness. Some comprehension must have reached my eyes. "That is right," he shouted. "I am He. You have lost. You have burned, destroyed that fine organic mechanism whose only function was to deceive you. It was a trap for you, everything here, even the existence of this world, this loop in time, has no function other than trapping you. Did you forget so quickly that a body is merely a shell for me, the eternal He? My brain has mastered death and lives on. Now in this imitation of a mad emperor. He never knew what real madness was. But you have lost -- " T his was a temporary setback. I suppose that normally I would have felt defeated, afraid, angry, suffered under some kind of useless emotion. Now I simply waited for the opportunity to kill He again. My berserker condition found the lack of results boring -- after two tries He was still alive. I resolved that the third would be the final one. He bent and searched me with brutal thoroughness, ripping my clothing into shreds, pulling off devices that adhered to my skin, taking the knife from my ankle, the gun from my wrist, the tiny grenades from my hair. Within seconds every ready weapon I had was gone. The few devices left were well out of reach. The search over he discarded me, flinging my limp body face upward onto the table. "I have prepared for this moment." He told me. I heard the rattle of chains as he picked up my wrists and snapped heavy metal fetters about them. As the cuffs closed there was a brief flash of light as the ends welded together and I saw the instant blistered redness of my skin where it touched the metal. Not important -- I felt ntothing. He pushed a needle into my wrist. Feeling began to return, first to my hands -- great pain in the wrists -- and then to my arms. A lot of pain seemed to be associated with the return of sensation. I ignored it, although spasms shook my body uncontrollably. In the end I shook myself off the table. falling heavily to the floor. He bent and picked me up at once, dragging me across the width of the great cathedral. His strength, even in the disguise of this small body, was tremendous. In the brief instant I had lain on the floor I had grabbed something with my fingers. I did not know what it was -- it felt quite small and metallic -- but it remained clenched tightly in my fist. A solid waist-high metal pillar stood about five meters from the time-helix controls. This, too, was waiting for me. He held my wrists apart and laid the chain that joined them into a groove in the top of the pillar. Another flash of light welded the chain to the solid metal. He released me and I swayed but did not fall. Sensation and control were returning to my body and I mastered it as he went to the controls and made some adjustments. The vast cathedral was silent. We were alone except for the huddled bodies. "I have won," he yelled suddenly, doing a litte dance step. He pointed to the coiled form of the time helix and laughed out loud. "Do you realize that you are now in a loop of time that does not exist, that I called into being to trap you, that will vanish as soon as I leave it?" "I suspected that. Napoleon lost in our text books." "He won here. I gave him the weapons to conquer the world. Then I killed him when my new body was ready, This loop in time came into being when he died and its existence created a barrier in time that will go down as soon as it ceases to exist. When I leave this will happen, but not instantly, that would be too easy for you. I want to think of you here -- alone, knowing that you have lost and that your future will never exist. There is a time fixator on this building. It will be here after London and the entire world are gone, perhaps longer than you. You may die a difficult death -- or live an even more difficult life -- before it shuts off. I have won." He turned to the controls again. I opened my fist to see what weapon I had in my palm that might defeat him at this final moment. It was a small brass cylinder that weighed no more than a few grams. One end had small holes punched in it and when I turned it over fine white sand came out. A sander, used for drying the writing ink on papers. I might have wished for a better weapon but this would have to do. "I leave," He said, actuating the mechanism. "What about your men here?" IF "Mad slaves. They vanish with you, having served my purpose. I have an entire world of them waiting to welcome my return. Soon there will be many worlds -- soon they will all be mine." I could add nothing much to that. He sauntered across the flagstones, a monster in the body of that tiny man, touched his hand to the glowing end of the time helix and was instantly engulfed by its cold green flame. "All mine," he said. "I don't think so." hand, testing its weight, measuring the distance to the controls. My chains permitted some movement. The settings for the time scale of the helix were a bank of keys -- a number of them were depressed now. If I could push one more of them down the setting would be changed and He would arrive at an unscheduled time and place -- perhaps not arrive at all. I swung my hand as much as my fetters permitted, estimating the distance, the trajectory the little tube must follow. He must have guessed what I intended. He began to howl with insane rage, pulling at the time field that neatly held him tight to the end of the helix. Coldly I judged the distance until I was sure I had it right. I tossed the sander in a high arc. It rose, glinting brightly in a shaft of sunlight from a stained glass window, and arched down. Section #. Title #, United States Code). #. Date of filing: October #, #. #. Title of publication: Worlds of If. #. Frequency of issue bimonthly. #. Location of known ofHces of publication: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #. Location of the headquarters or general business offices of the publisher: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #. Names and addresses of the publisher, editor and managing editor. Publisher: Arnold E. Abramson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Editor: Ejler Jakobsson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Managing Editor: Judy-Lynn Benjamin, York, N.Y. #, a subsidiary .of Universal Publishing and Distributing Corporation, # Elast # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Names and addresses of holders of I percent or more of Universal Publishing and Distributing Corporation stock are Arnold E. Abramson, # East # Street, New. York, N.Y. #; Robert J. Abramson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #; Peter J. Abramson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #; Allen  Company, # Broad Street,' New York, N.Y. #; Clooney  Company, co Fiduciary Trust Company of N.Y., P.O. Box #, Wall Street Station, New York, N.Y. #; S.D. Lunt  Company, # Marine Trust Building, Buffalo, N.Y. #. #. Known bondholders, mortgagees and other security holders owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages or other securities. None. #. Ixtent and nature of circulation: A. Total no. copies printed (net press run). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. B. Paid Circulation. #. Sales through dealers and carriers, street vendors and counter sales. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue neai est to filing date: #. #. Mail subscriptions. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. C. Total paid circulation: Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to Hling date: #. D. #. Free distribution (including samples) by mail, carrier or other means. Average no. copies each issue during the preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date. #. #. Copies distributed to news agents, but not sold. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. E. Total distribution (sum of C and D). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. F. Office use, left-over, unaccounted, spoiled after printing. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. G. Total (sum of E and F -- should ual net press run shown in A). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months. #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete. Lawrence C. Murphy, Circulation Manager. Striking on the bank of keys, then falling off to rattle to the floor. He's enraged cries cut off as the time helix released and He vanished from sight. At the same moment the light changed, dimming to dusk. Outside the windows was the grayness I had seen before during the time attack on the laboratory that had started everything. London, the world outside no longer existed, not in this particular part of time and space. Only the cathedral continued being, held briefly by the time fixator. Had He won? I felt the first touch of worry -- the effects of the drug had to be wearing off. I looked hard, but it was almost impossible to see the indicator dials in the dim light. Had one of them moved just before the helix was actuated? I could not be sure. And it didn't really matter, not to me here. Whether the future was hell or a paradise of peace could not affect me. With the return of emotions I felt a desire to know if my world would ever be. Would there be a Special Corps and would my Angelina some day be born? I would never know. I tugged sharply at the chains. They held fast. The end. End of everything. The emotions that were returning were only the blackest and most depressed but I could not help it. End. While I was at the depths, feeling only the most profound selfpity, the sound began. A distant whine on the edge of audibility, so weak I would never have heard it had it not broken an absolute silence. It grew and grew, as annoying as an insect making me aware of it although I did not wish to be aware of anything except my misery. In the end it was quite loud, coming from empty space somewhere high beneath the dome. I looked up despite my lack of interest just as there was the loud bang of displaced air. A figure appeared in the darkness above, someone in a spacesuit. Wearing a grav-chute, because he drifted down slowly and landed in front of me. I was stunned and ready for almost anything when he opened the dark helmet of his spacesuit. Ready for almost anything other than the fact that he was not a he. "Get rid of that silly chain," Angelina said. "You always manage to get into trouble as soon as I leave you alone. You're coming back with me right now and that is all there is to it." I had nothing at all to say. This time the last word was surely hers.# IF A#I right," he said, reluctantly awake. He had been having a good dream of home and full rations of cool water to bathe in. A dream where loneliness no longer existed. The voice that had awakened him was soft and female and Jyon recognized it. Her name was Cams and she was pleasant to look at. She was a medical assistant. "The doctor requests your presence," she said urgently. "The Leader fails. Now, please." Jyon scrambled from near nakedness into his tunic while she watched without any evident embarrassment. The tunic fit him loosely. He had lost flesh. All of the crew had. The relief ship was overdue. There was talk that it would never come, had never been dispatched. Soon the rations would have to be cut again. Dutifully he followed the girl down metallic corridors that smelled of oil and age. He thought she was aware that he watched her and not displeased. She wore no man's mark and so was unattached. It was long since he had paired. He had lost the desire when Dari died in a sudden shifting of the crust of the black world below. Now there seemed to be too many thoughts he needed to hide from others, things he could never share. The ship was his. Conflict and bickering over possible courses of action grew in ferocity. He had to make the final decisions. That was the custom and the law. It seemed better to face that duty without the additional involvement of pairing and sharing. Leader Mzel had been injured on the same disastrous day that had claimed the life of Dari. The sudden land shift had crushed Mzel and left him speechless, comatose much of the time and without reason. Jyon had assumed command of the strife-ridden ship. The doctor waited. "He's conscious," he said softly. "I opened his skull and relieved the pressure. He's very weak and presents a poor chance." He himself. "He may die -- he may live. I think there is now some understanding within him of what is said." The doctor watched Jyon through eyes that had seen much and pitied all. "The law says that you lead if he dies. Leaders are supposed to pass on their secrets to those who succeed them. I would talk to you about the course we must take. But first Leader Mzel may have things he wishes to tell you." "I understand." Mzel was strapped to a pallet, eyes open, full of pain. Still, Jyon saw that those eyes were now able to follow him. IF H e sat beside the pallet and took the older man's hand. "You are better," he said comfortingly. Leader Mzel watched him, then let his eyes turn away to the table near the pallet. Jyon looked that way also. On the table was the buckle that Mzel had always worn, the buckle of the brotherhood. Mzel was of the brotherhood. Jyon was not., Mzel nodded with a tiny motion and his eyes returned to Jyon. "Take," he said softly, Jyon picked up the belt and buckle. Cunningly worked into the metal were the familiar figures of the Twins, life flask held between them. Jyon clasped the buckle, sensing that the older man wanted him to do so. Mzel's mouth opened again and Jyon leaned close, listening. One word came and it was so low it was more imagined than heard. "Relief?" Jyon shook his head. "Not yet. Leader. We still wait. Many now desire to abandon the watch, drive the ship toward home," He nodded, not afraid to muse in front of this other man who had known command. "No reason other than the ancient rules why we shouldn't. The ship theoretically could make it home if we left soon. If we wait too much longer we might have insufficient rations for the trip." He looked down and again tried to read Mzel's eyes. "Nothing is left down there. The surface is now extremely dangerous. A poisoned planet, its atmosphere burned away, a worthless place. The disapproval of this watch grows among the crew." He leaned forward again, watching the listening, but he could not be sure of the word Mzel spoke. Was it. Stay? Jyon shook his head. Much lay beyond his understanding. No Leader had ever been lost before to his knowledge, save through orderly process. But command was now his. The ship had been here for a score of centuries. The directives of the Twin Brotherhood said it was to stay here, no matter what happened. But that surely could be interpreted to mean that the ship was to stay with relief. Not even the most disapproving of the Twin Brotherhood could expect otherwise. Yet when his own relief party had been in training Jyon had known from idle talk that there had been indecision about whether to send them. The maintenance of the ships taxed the makeshift civilization that sputtered and sparked now on the home planet. The civilization had arisen since the last time of chaos more than two thousand years before. Jyon thought that the ships were relics of a time older than that -- they were all but indestructible. A new dark age approached: Wars had broken out between the principal cities and only the Brotherhood maintained what peace remained. An uneasy time. He watched the older man who had now stopped trying to talk. Leader Mzel fought only to live, to exist. In a while the tortured eyes glazed over and Mzel sank back into unconsciousness. The doctor waited outside. "I think he sleeps," Jyon said. He held the belt and buckle. "He wished me to take this." The doctor said, "We monitor him constantly. His injuries were most severe." He eyed Jyon. "Is there time to talk with me now?" Jyon knew then that the doctor held no hope for Mzel. He sighed. "Speak." The doctor lifted a hand that trembled slightly. "We must proceed home soon. I now have too many patients suffering from nervous disorders -- an alarming increase. If we continue to wait for relief I mistrust the collective sanity of the ship. The times were too troubled when we left. The crew no longer believes that relief is on the way and so there is no end in sight for them." Jyon asked, "Would you have us leave now and risk the perils of a long voyage and have relief come after our leaving?" "My advice is that we return," the doctor said shortly. "If you wish, for your records and to absolve your conscience and to clear you with the Twin Brotherhood, which presumably still governs at home, I shall be happy to reduce that advice to writing." "Perhaps that would be best. Doctor. I haven't yet made up my mind about what course to follow. The directives seem clear. This ship is to stand watch here. Perhaps Mzel, as a member of the Brotherhood, had some inkling of our purpose. I know not. I only know that this watch has lasted as long as our history -- it reaches back to the dark years. Perhaps we are to rescue artifacts that belch from time to time from the tortured matter below -- perhaps we are here as chroniclers of destruction or even as potential rescuers of some possible survivors hidden deep beneath the tormented crust of the world below us." "There can be no survivors. None has ever been found in the history of the ship," the doctor said. He shook his head. "We serve no purpose here except to be in at the cremation, perhaps for some dark reason of the Brotherhood. And how do we know now that the Brotherhood still maintains law at home?" "Write out your recommendations, Doctor," Jyon said without emotion. "I'll consider them. I can promise no more for now." most time for watch, but there IF was time enough to visit the Room ' of Ages. He walked there slowly. The room was dim and vast. The vaulted ceiling was scanty illuminated by a reproduction of the home sun and the planets that wheeled around it. He found a vacant place and contemplated. The room was not a place of religion, although many used it as such. The Brotherhood was not a thing of priests, but of men -- men who kept the laws, maintained the ships, studied what remained of the old books. Men who tried. The Room of Ages was a part of the Brotherhood rule. And because he was not completely without cynicism Jyon knew that it had bn placed here mainly for those who attributed godhood to the Twins, for whom no overt worship was solicited. The four walls of the room were covered by enormous pictures. On the rear wall was Stac and Small. He was in appearance much like Jyon himself. The clothes were different, but the eyes that looked back at Jyon were known eyes. On the opposite wall was Givan the Great. He differed markedly from Stac. He was tall and there seemed to be no hair on his body. Some men of the Twin Brotherhood at home shaved theirs to set themselves apart. Givan had too many joints in his feet and fingers and his eyes were set so deep that all one really saw were shadows. On the back wall, between the brothers, was the flask of life. It was a huge, black, bottle-shaped thing, curiously made. The front wall of the room was made in the fashion of the buckle Mzel had entrusted to Jyon. There Stac and Givan again stood, arms entwined about each other in friendship, the flask held jointly by them. The legends said that the Twins had once lived this way. But no man of Jyon's race who now lived had seen one who looked like Givan. Jyon wondered what a friendship like that would have been worth. The drawing was from one of the old statues that had come through the time of darkness. Jyon had once seen an original in one of the halls of the Brotherhood at home. Stac was cast in light metal and Givan in metal of dark green. The legends grew dim. Once men had risen from the mud -- once they had journeyed to the far stars. That was what remained of the legends. Once there had been friends around mankind -- once men had not been lonely and lost. den, now second in command and a former friend. When command had come to Jyon somehow friendships had withered. "What news of the Leader?" Gyden asked sourly. He had probably already heard, Jyon thought. "Perhaps improved. He understands again. He can speak." The other nodded and watched him cautiously and Jyon thought he was going to be proselyted again, but Gyden forebore. Gyden"s opinion that they should attempt return was already well known and widely circulated within the ship. He was the acknowledged leader of the return group, which Jyon believed grew in numbers daily. Jyon formally relieved and then watched the planet below through the scanners. Around him delicate instruments charted and measured, cameras took continuous pictures. The swollen sun had cooked the life from what had once most probably been a fairly pleasant place. First atmosphere and oceans had boiled and burned away, then massive quakes had shaken the stricken planet. Now the surface was unstable and highly dangerous to approach. Dari and Mzel were not the only casualties. The ship had lost a total of nineteen persons -- twenty if Mzel died. That was out of a population of less than four hundred. Jyon watched and waited and wondered why he watched, why so many generations had persistently watched. Perhaps it was only because the watch had somehow begun and now no one, including the Brotherhood, knew how to end it. In a way the ships were the Brotherhood. Perhaps was a thousand, thousand reasons that no one knew now. The ship stayed because the ship stayed. The reasons might be good -- but they were lost. Once there had been cities below and it was possible that beings somewhat like Jyon's own people had lived in those cities. A popular belief aboard the ship was that Jyon's own people might once have colonized the world below -- in a forgotten age -- and how kept watch to retain some vestige of sovereignty, for the legends had it that once the race had been warlike and proud. Around Jyon other members of the watch came and went in endless routine. He could feel eyes on him, curious eyes, angry eyes, even eyes that seemed to plot rebellion. He had a strong feeling that when he made his decision about return that decision might not be the final one. He had therefore taken some precautions. In the Leader's cabin, which he now occupied at least temporarily, were secret primary controls for the ship. Mzel, perhaps with a premonition of disaster, had shown these controls to him in the good times before rations had shortened. Jyon had never shown them to Gyden. The cabin could be sealed off so that unauIF thorized entry would be time-consuming and difficult. He hoped necessity would not force him to last resorts, but the ship could be conned and the bleak world below scanned independently from that cabin. Without control of the cabin no one could immediately take the ship from orbit and compute it into a course toward the home sun. Only in time and with much effort could the. cabin control be overridden. Halfway into the watch a thing Jyon had come to dread happened. The scanners found a variance. The coordinates were called out and half a hundred pairs of eyes moved in and over and scanned that variance, compared it with pictures taken on the last pass of the area. It seemed to be no mere crust upheaval. Something was down there that had not been there before. Jyon was a veteran of a hundred similar happenings. The rules were simple enough. A scout should be launched to investigate. That rule had begun to cost lives. The odds for survival upon landing were poor. And yet it seemed to Jyon that if he broke routine that routine was finished for all time. So he would go -- but he would avoid landing. H e ordered the waiting crew: "To Scout Three. I will command...Temporary command here to the next in line." That meant someone would call Gyden out of .bis sleep. Jyon assembled his exploratory crew of ten, took the scout down and skimmed the surface of the planet. Close in, in the darkness, all that was revealed to sight and instruments was an enormous mound of matter. A thing had pushed its way out of the planet's interior and loomed now, still hideously hot from the sunward side. Jyon held the ship above it and calculated chances. There really seemed no easy, safe way to get the ship down even if he wanted to land. Instead he played powerful beams of light upon the earthvomited artifact and had pictures made. They showed a long vaguely formed body partially thrust through the crust. The lines of the thing had uniformity and seemed more than amorphous -- perhaps manufactured -- perhaps a tunnel belched out from far below by those terrible underground pressures. It was much too large for removal. What he saw seemed to be only a part of it with much more underground. It seemed to be of metal, dulled and deeply colored by long interment in the earth. In the ship above were books showing what had come up from the ground over the long watch, but no one was familiar with them any more, for the ship's scribe was among the dead. It was possible that what was being unearthed had appeared before and had been investigated. Jyon hesitated, still studying pictures. He allowed time to pass as the thing below moved toward the sun side. There the scout ship could not follow. The sun was too hot, the coolants in the tiny ship too inefficient. As he watched the crust shifted agonizingly again and more of the long body appeared. It widened and seemed to be wider still in that portion yet concealed within the planet. A patch of white heat broke from the bottom of the gray sky. The sun. Reluctantly Jyon ordered return. He would study the object further from the ship. by four men. They waited upon him warily, their manner determined but respectful. Their spokesman had hard eyes that shone now with purpose. He said, "Leader Gyden has taken command of the ship with the purpose of returning us home. We have been sent to attend you." Jyon smiled. "Good," he said. The four watched him without return smiles. Jyon said, "I'm glad the decision is no longer mine. I now express my sympathies." "I see," the spokesman said, seeming to relax a little. "Take me to my cabin, please," Jyon said. "I'm tired after the long shift." They conferred quietly and then took him there. They made a cursory inspection of the room, found nothing to cause them concern, left and closed the door. Jyon waited for a moment or two and then carefully and quietly locked the door from the inside, turned the huge bolts that Mzel had shown him, and pushed down the secondary shields that secured the room from anything but the most determined and continuous onslaught. He opened the concealed wall panel as Mzel had shown him. Then he locked in the set of overriding controls so that the centuries-long vigil around the doomed world below would continue. The course had not yet been changed, but he imagined that Gyden was plotting a new one in the central control room. The cabin held a tiny scanner. He set its coordinates so that he could monitor the new object when the region came around again. Then he slept. His sleep was exhausted and without dreams. He awoke to a muffled banging on the door. He smiled to himself. Gyden's people must have discovered that their controls were inoperative and finally deduced that he might have something to do with it. They were working on the door. But if the specifications Mzel had shown IF him were right the men would work a long time before they gained entrance. He turned on the voice system at the control panel and set it for all outlets. "This is Acting Leader Jyon," he said. "I am controlling the ship from my cabin." Gyden's voice came back quickly: "Open the door for us, Jyon. We voted while you were on scout. Many more wished to return home than wished to stay and hope for relief." He fell silent for a moment, waiting for Jyon to speak, but Jyon said nothing. Gyden's voice returned, full of conviction: "If we stay here we will all die." "Then we'll die," Jyon said simply. "Leader Mzel said we should stay. There is a reason. Our race has endured the high cost of maintaining the watch for too long for there not to be a reason." "No," Gyden said. "Now open the door for us. Otherwise we will not furnish you with food and will cut off your cabin water." "We need not talk further," Jyon said frigidly. T he cabin contained the record books that listed and portrayed the artifacts taken and observed from the world below. There were rows of the books, huge pages of pictures and other pages covered with the spidery writing of past ship's scribes. The current book was in the central control room. These were the books of the past. He had lacked time to examine them. Now he had plenty of time. The pictures were of bits of machinery, delicate pottery shards, metallic instruments, building blocks, shaped metals and the rest of the flotsam and jetsam of a long-vanished race. But there didn't seem to be anything remotely like what Jyon had seen on the last trip down. The record books were fascinating. They gave only minor hints at the reasons for the long vigil, reasons Jyon had already deduced and cast aside. Primarily the books chronicled results. With the books it was easier to imagine that a sentient race had lived on the grim world below and he could even imagine what that race had been like -- intelligent, mechanized, complex, even lovers of beauty. Jyon read and argued with himself about the sun. It seemed positive that it had begun its final death process long before the watch ship appeared in the area and surely all life had vanished an eon before the watch had begun. The records seemed to bear that out for nowhere was pictured any artifact that did not show the eL fects of both heat and age. When had those who had lived below discovered what was going to happen to their sun? Where had they fled? Men outside still worked at the room, attempting to gain entrance, but the attempts seemed sporadic now. Perhaps they were ready to give up and seek other alternatives. Perhaps they would find a way around the locked controls. Jyon no longer really cared as the days fled past. Below the ship's orbit the huge body that had erupted from the ground lay quietly, barely distrubed by the almost constant tremors. Jyon watched it for a few days, then moved to other pursuits, leaving the scanner coordinated to it. His new interest was hunger. Before he had secluded himself the ship's meals had been skimpy, providing barely enough nutrient value to sustain life. Now there was, of course, nothing. The water tap continued to run. He had filled all the containers he had been able to find after the threat, but as yet had had no need to resort to them. He hungered. The mirror let him see his face become old and gaunt with a suddenness that was frightening. In a very short time movement became perilous for he was constantly lightheaded and dizzy. The days passed and finally pain ceased to be associated with his hunger, it became a mental thing, a knowing that someplace there was food. That place became more distant every day so that as the time quickly passed the place of food became almost an imaginary thing. Despite the voices that came from the speaker, cajoling him to open the door, he no longer believed that opening the door would bring food. Existence in the world he built of his hunger had to be more complicated than that. A fter many days he recognized Gyden's voice as it came over the speaker. He listened to it stolidly from his pallet. "We have completed bypassing your controls. Leader Jyon. Mzel is dead and you are now leader. We ask you to open your door, remove the shields and help us return. Your conduct has been honorable, but surely you have done all you need to do. None of us desires your death. The medical staff fears you will die if you don't receive food soon. In a very short time we will leave the orbit here and proceed on a course to home. I ask not that you open to us until then, but when you see that the orbit has changed then open to us, so that you may live and not die." Jyon crawled from his pallet toward the controls. Cautiously he worked them, but nothing happened. Gyden had not lied. He peered into the scanner. The orbit appeared still to be the same. He concentrated on what IF lay below and a wave of sickness and dizziness came and he looked away and then determinedly back. Mzel's belt and buckle lay next to the scanner, where he had discarded them. Nothing had changed below. It was only that the great body that had come from the earth below reminded him of something, made him look down again. This scanner was smaller than those in the main control room. He rose to his feet and operated the shields. Then, clumsily, he threw back the massive bolts of the door. Two guards greeted him in friendly fashion, but their eyes mirrored shock at his appearance. "Take me now to the main control room," he said urgently. He tottered to them and felt strong arms hold his own weak ones and guide him. Gyden and two dozen others were working in the control room. All sound stopped as Jyon entered. "Before you leave orbit," Jyon said in a voice that was almost lost, "please try to open that artifact below. It seems to me to be like a great bottle -- a flask -- I beg -- please -- " He lost all control and blackness came. In his dreams he saw food. In the dreams Mzel still commanded and Dari lived. It was how he recognized it as a dream. was in the infirmary. Needles jutted from his arm and his breathing was aided by a respirator. The female Cams watched him and smiled when he looked at her. "You will be all right now," she said. "Where are we?" he asked and the question made bitter memories return. "How long have I been -- " She touched his lips with a quieting finger. "Not too much talk now. We still remain in orbit. The doctor and Subleader Gyden have been waiting for a long time to talk with you. Leader Jyon." She moved away and all was quiet for a while. When she returned she brought the doctor and Gyden. Gyden walked softly, as if afraid that the sound of his feet would bring harm to Jyon. The doctor moved close to the pallet. "You will be quiet and listen," he ordered Jyon. "I command here and you came within reach of death." He looked away and then back. "You have started a great argument about what we found down there by your insistence that we stay." He smiled gently. Gyden nodded seriously. "Those who have made the Twins a religious thing say that we have found the flask of life. Others say that we've found the treasures that our civilization lost in the times of chaos, those things that once made us great. Inside that thing down there, insulated completely against the heat, guarded by metals we only dimly understand, we found a rich treasure of films and books, machines and drawings, knowledge -- even history. An infinity of things that will enrich our race, give our people purpose." The doctor smiled again. "Yesterday we counseled with the other ship's leaders and theorized. Only many years of study will give us real answers, but we can still attempt to understand. We believe that once we, and perhaps others, lived on that world below many thousand of years before this watch began. Perhaps it was our ancestral home. When the sun began its change our people built in panic and we fled to our present home. Perhaps we lost those things we have found below over the years of darkness, so that when the watch began it was only known that we had once lived there and that something might be found that would be of benefit. Perhaps the ones who set the first watch knew that the thing we found existed, or at least hoped it existed." Gyden shook his head. "There are great paintings, statuary. Tithings we have lost." "Perhaps this we have found is the sole reason for the Brotherhood. Only a belief -- a religion -- could have survived the violent passage of time," the doctor said. Gyden leaned forward, his face earnest. "Still we hunger. Those on the home world now also hunger for knowledge of this. The times of darkness draw nigh there. Please say to us that we should return." They watched him. Jyon raised his head weakly. "Were there paintings and statues in what you recovered such as those we now call the Twins?" The doctor nodded. "Many such. That is why I said perhaps we once occupied this place with others." "Then calculate our food. See if anything in what we have found can be used for new food. We must stay as long as we can." He remembered the drawings, the buckle, the statue he'd seen long ago. Those two in the statue had found something worth more than mere knowledge, mere treasure, mere learning. It could be seen in their carved faces, in the arms held tight in friendship. "We are here," Jyon said slowly. "Once we fled and lost. Perhaps those others remained. Now let us await and watch with all we have for as long as we can. We have found our flask of knowledge. Let us wait to see if we now can find those who helped us to attain and hold it."  IF the Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Principal Speaker: Keith Laumer. For information: SanD Meschkow, # Larchwood Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #. New York City. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Albert Schuster, #-# Crescent Street, Long Island City, New York I I #. Dickson. Advance registration: #. For information: Ted Pauls, # Meridene Drive, Baltimore, Maryland #.  At the Statler-Hilton Hotel, New York City. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York. Statler-Hilton Hotel Boston, Massachusetts. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For inforStation, Cambridge, Massachusetts.  European Science Fiction Convention with the Trieste SF Film Festival. Membership: #, attending; #, supporting. For informaAve., Belmont, Massachusetts Box #, University Station, Regina, Bruce Gillespie, Box #AA, Melkumi Shibano, #-#-#, O-okayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo. Convention address: Eurocon #, Casella Postale #, #, Venezia, Italy. Send membership money via individual agents listed above.  World Science Fiction Convention. At the International Hotel, #I West Century Blvd., Los Angeles, California #. Guest-of-Honor: Frederik Pohl. Fan Guets-of-Honor: Robert and Juanita Coulson. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: L.A. Con, P.O. Box #, Santa Monica, California #. Duncan had to choose between two realities. Yet in the end there was no choice... cavity of steel -- windowless, no bars, nothing even to tell where the dim light was coming from.  There was nothing here besides his own bruised, bewildered, outraged self. If the cell had been padded he would have known they thought him insane. The walls were smooth steel. No, the thing was a jail, all right, and by God somebody was going to pay for this outrage before the day was out. He listened anxiously. All he could hear was his own breathing. He sat down again on the cold floor. The sensible thing to do was wait. Calmly. Not let them know he was afraid. They would enjoy his fear. That clod, that stone-faced blockhead, who had shoved him in here was a sadist who probably thought he was a nobody. Well, he would show him. He would make a phone call and then the fur would fly. He leaped to his feet and attacked the steel door with his fists. After an interminable length of time the door slid back and Stoneface stood there -- blue-clad, beefy and looking unintelligent. "What is it?" Stoneface asked. "The law says I'm entitled to one phone call," he said, constricting his throat muscles so that the words would not come out as a croak. He moved back a step to make it obvious that he had no intention of trying to bolt through the door. It would not help to antagonize this moron. He felt new confidence pouring through him. Seconds later he felt it drain out of him in one big bubble for Stoneface was frowning at him and saying, "What is law?" He knew his own expression was collapsing into stupid disbelief. "Don't start that again," he said angrily. "It won't work. I'm a decent, law-abiding citizen who's been locked up without even being charged. You can't get away with it. I demand that you let me call my lawyer." Stoneface stared. "What is lawyer?" he asked curiously. When Duncan only glared at him he walked out. As the door began to slide shut, Duncan's rage exploded. "How long are you going to keep me in here?" "Until they come," answered Stoneface before the edge of the door met the panel with a depressingclang. I wont, Duncan thought. He would be damned if he would scream. He wouldn't give them the satisfaction of listening to his fear. He rubbed a sore place on his arm. Until they come... "They," Duncan mumbled. The word had sounded strangely emphatic as Stoneface had used it -- as if he had uttered some Finality. trying to give it the proper inflection, decipher its meaning. What could they mean? A firing squad? because he had resisted arrest? Stop it, he told himself sternly. Firing squads had gone out with capital punishment. He sat down again, his back against the wall, so exhausted he could scarcely go through the mechanics of thinking. slept for when he opened his eyes the door was sliding back and two tall shadows were moving toward him. "They" were here. He sat up straight and fought his urge to cringe against the wall. Savagely he forced his mind to focus on only one thought. If they tried to drag him out he would put up the fight of his life. Neither man made a move to touch him. Both stood inside the doorway and simply looked at him for a long moment before one of them snapped his fingers smartly. This was evidently a signal to Stoneface because he went away and returned with two collapsible chairs. They were tall and roughly dressed in high heavy boots, thick trousers and shirts. They sat down rather hesitantly and Continued to look at him while he made a suspicious examination of His own. They were middle-aged, past fifty anyway, but they looked to be in good shape. "Are you going to pretend you're brainless like your guard?" he asked, gripping his knees to still their trembling. "Because if you are you're wasting your time. I can wait this thing out just as long as I have to." "We're not going to pretend anything," one of them said and Duncan jerked his head quickly to look at him. The man was ruddy-cheeked and perspiring as though he had just stepped from a steam bath. Which was impossible. The evening temperature must be about sixty, though it had been higher that afternoon when Stoneface had marched into Duncan's house and arrested him. "Who are you?" he demanded, expecting no answer. "My name is Rand. This is Mr. Dee vers." He eyed them in desperation. They looked as normal as any crooked cops but the sight of them did things to him. Not just because they were staring at him as if he had eight legs, but because they were free to go wherever they wished, while he knew that all he IF had to do was make one quick move toward the open door before they blasted him. Deevers was as sallow as Rand was ruddy, as if all the color had been drained from his skin. He looked worn out. They both did. Why weren't they wearing uniforms? Why were they dressed like this? He folded his arms and glared at them. He would see himself in hell before he asked them why he had been arrested. It would be the same as begging. The one called Deevers gave his head an impatient jerk and Rand spoke again. "We have to ask you a few questions," he said. "Then maybe we can answer some of yours." He smiled awkwardly, perhaps expecting to dent Duncan's armor of hostility. The smile told Duncan one thing. If they had murder on their minds they did not intend to get to it immediately. "Fire away," he said coldly. "When did you first notice that your identity tag was gone?" N ot that again. Not the identification card again. Duncan sagged against the wall, spent and beginning to feel ill. A lousy piece of paper that didn't mean a damn thing. "I don't know," he mumbled. "Think," Rand urged, "It wasn't a tag. It was an ordinary identification card. I was looking for something in my wallet and the card dropped out. It fell into a gutter and washed down the drain." Rand leaned forward. "Where were you when this happened?" "I'd just left work and was on my way home." "What city?" Deevers snapped at him suddenly. "Go to hell!" he snapped back. Deevers grimaced and sat back in his chair. He looked at Rand. "We're wasting time." Duncan tasted the sweat on his upper lip. "If it's a case of identification I've more than enough evidence of who I am. There's my birth certificate." They stared at him as if he had said something obscene. Rand seemed to be trying to mask his emotions but Deevers made no attempt to conceal his disgust. "Where is it?" Rand said at last. "Stoneface has it. Your man outside." Rand looked at Deevers. "Go get it." Deevers scowled as he stood up. "I still say we ought to finish it right now." Rand kept his eyes focused on the floor and didn't look up until the other came back. He took the slip of paper from Deevers' hand and looked at it for a long minute. "Where do you suppose he found this?" he said in quiet bafflement. "There must be plenty of scraps around. This looks like part of a bill of -- " "I tell you, he wouldn't know where to look." "Come on, Dave. You don't know what he was doing before he was brought in. He's been wandering all over the place." By God, they could quit talking as if he weren't sitting right here listening to them. The birth certificate evidently meant no more to them than it had to Stoneface. Oh, that had been a cute scene. Just a minute, Duncan had said, offended but absolutely sure of himself.  may have lost my identification card but that doesnt mean I dont exist any more. What kind of nonsense is this?  still have some rights. And Stoneface had asked. What are rights? Yes, those had been the words. And Duncan had yanked the birth certificate from his wallet and shoved it in the idiot's face, convinced that if that didn't satisfy the fool nothing would. God, but he had been right about that. After reading the data out loud Stoneface had asked, What is father? What is mother? What is birth? Duncan saw Rand start to throw the birth certificate away, then give him a quick glance and stick it into his pocket. They mistook him for someone else, Duncan knew. Someone had done something and Deever and Rand thought he was the guilty party. And if he didn't get off his lard in a hurry the thing was going to get too far out of hand. "I didn't do it," he said. "You've got the wrong man." "What did your identification card look like?" asked Rand as though he hadn't heard a word. They cant keep this up, said the babbler in Duncan's mind. Some time somebody had to start making sense. He knew he was doing himself no good shuddering and jerking the way he was doing, but some demon in his brain kept warning that if he didn't let loose in some manner he would end the day as insane as these two. "It was w'hite, three by two inches, approximately," he said. "It carried my name, address, physical description and draft status." "And it was white?" "I said it was white." Deevers was looking at him with open distaste. IF Rand propped a boot on one knee and idly scraped debris from it. "What did it look like after it fell out of your wallet?" sense of doom he had watched the white card being swept away in the muddy torrent. It had disappeared into the drain among leaves and mud. What the hell? he remembered himself asking out loud. He had been surprised when he had found himself kneeling by the gutter and even more surprised to discover that his body trembled. For a second he had thought the white card had changed color and shape just before it fell into the drain. It had looked strangely metallic and spherical, green and utterly unfamiliar there in the wash. "It looked green,", he said and caught himself at once. "No, it was white. I told you -- it was white." Rand's fingers had frozen on his boot and now he glared at Deevers with a savage little grin twisting his lips. Deevers shrugged and shook his head. "Doesn't mean a thing." "The devil it doesn't." Duncan had said out loud to himself. What the hell? and it made him feel real again. All he had done was drop his identity card out of his wallet. It could happen to anyone and often did. What would he do about it? Get another, of course. Or make himself one. An identification card was a meaningless object, not even an actual symbol. A piece of paper could never represent the sum total of a man with a functioning brain and body. "It doesn't make any difference what color it was," he said faintly, looking at Deevers. "It's very important," said Rand. "I can't see that it matters. If you want to find out who I am it should be simple." "We already know who you are," replied Deevers, grim amusement on his face. Something fell within Duncan's stomach, a hot weight that seemed to drop without end. "Then why don't you let me out of here?" he asked. "At least let me call my lawyer." Rand looked away. "I'm afraid you can't call him." "Why not?" "Long distance rates, you know," remarked Deevers with an open sneer. Rand shot him an annoyed glance. "Knock it off." "We're wasting time." "You can't expect to solve this in a few hours." "I don't expect to solve it at all," said Deevers. "It's a measly point zero zero two percent. I say we mark him and the others like him off as annual loss and forget it." "No." "We've gone through this routine a dozen times and we haven't learned a thing." Duncan stared at them in bewilderment, the falling sensation in his stomach robbing him of strength. He placed his hands flat on the floor and braced himself. Slowly, laboriously, he began to stand up. Deevers' face took on an expression of alarm. "Let's get out," he said swiftly. "Wait -- " cried Duncan in dismay, getting his feet under him. By the time he was erect and halfway across the room both men were outside and the door was sliding shut. It halted a foot from the panel and Rand looked in at him. "You mustn't ever do that again," he said. "Do what?" Duncan stared back at him and then in fury and desperation shouted, "Let me out! You can't leave me here!" He heard Deevers chuckle. "I haven't done anything! If you think I've committed a crime at least tell me what it is -- " Rand shook his head patiently. " Y ou' ve committed no crime." "All right." Duncan's voice was a whine -- his legs were water. "I'm a worm and you're God Almighty but let me out of here." "I can't." "Tell me why!" "Because you're insane." H e recoiled from the pain of the words, slamming up hard against the cell wall, hurting his back and his head. He stared about his prison, then turned to Rand. Dread choked his throat. "I don't believe you," he said, reaching through the opening just as the man stepped back. "This isn't a sanitarium. Where are the doctors? The nurses? What is this place?" Rand eyed him warily. "It's a storage room, the only place we have to put you in. Don't try to figure things out. You'll only hurt yourself." Then his face was gone from the opening. Duncan began to pace the floor, certain he had worn a rut in it by the time he gave up. He examined the walls of his cell. A smoother steel he had never placed his hands upon. It felt like glass and the rounded corners were as unIF marred as the rest, giving no hint of yielding to the pressure of his back muscles. He was not insane. They were trying to drive him out of his mind or make him doubt his sanity. And he wasn't in any jail. Stoneface's uniform had fooled him but now he knew it wasn't genuine. The police station was phony. But this wasn't an asylum. It must be just what Rand had said it was, a storage room, but like no other Duncan had ever seen. A bulldozer would have had difficulty plowing its way through the thick door. He stretched out on the cold steel and laid his head on his arms. By God, something reasonable was bound to emerge from all this sooner or later and when it did he was going to raise a hue and cry that would put Rand and Deevers behind bars where they belonged. He was drowsing when Rand came back. When he saw the man was not going to open the door Duncan didn't bother to get up. He propped his chin on his arms and watched as the other squinted through the narrow opening and finally located him. "We have to talk some more." "About the card, naturally," Duncan retorted sarcastically. Rand smiled dryly "As a matter of fact, yes. It's very important, you know." "No, I don't know. All I know is that you look like a sane sort of person, not at all like a kidnaper. Who are you working for? Some espionage outfit? Because you're wasting your time. I haven't any secrets." Rand sighed as he leaned against the panel. "Concentrate on the tag. I mean the card. How did you feel when you saw it lying in the gutter?" "Nuts." "Try to answer." "I didn't feel anything. Why should I?" "I think you're lying." "Nuts." "Believe me, it isn't." "Believe you? That's good." "Did you feel angry?" asked Rand patiently. "No." "Sad?" "Of course not." "Happy?" "Ha-ha." "Did you feel a sense of doom?" Duncan clutched his head and writhed onto his back. "Nan!" he yelled. Rand gripped the edge of the door. "Who's Nan?" "My wife, you fool!" howled Duncan. "Your wife?" His wife. His loving wife. She had asked. What happened? Were you in an accident? Did you fall? He had just stepped into the house -- tired, hungry and growing angry because there was no food on the table. She had kept nagging at him with her fool questions until he had lost his temper and had sworn at her. That had made him contrite and he had tried to kiss her. She had held him off while she stared at his chest with a horrified expression on her face. Then she had marched to the phone and -- for crying out loud -- had called the police. "She's ill," he groaned to Rand. "I have to get out of here." Rand was staring at him with a disbelieving look. "When are you going to stop this?" Duncan demanded, trying to put some grit into his voice and failing. "I can't stop." All right. Enough was enough. "At least bring me a cot to lie down on," he said. "How would you enjoy sleeping on steel?" "I'm sorry about that," Rand said. "I should have thought." "Well?" "I'll send one in with N -- with Stoneface." As Rand went away Duncan grinned savagely and stole to his feet. He had to do it. He had to get out one way or another. H e was in the corner beside the door when Stoneface opened it and carried in a cot. The man had no warning at all. He was setting the bed down when Duncan's bunched fists crashed down on his neck. He saw the differences immediately when he stepped out of the cell. Someone had taken the police station away. He was now in an incredibly small enclosure, all of it made of steel, with a small door beside his prison and another one ten feet away. Oh God. Before his dread could begin to build he cut it off sharply. It was all right, he thought steadily. Let them switch things around. It wasn't going to stop him for a second. He pressed on the door beside the cell and it slid back a fraction of an inch. Sucking in his breath, he stiffened to immobility as he overheard Rand and Deevers talking. "Conscience is a function of intelligence," Rand was saying with quiet heat. "Where the devil is yours, since you're so bright?" "I don't believe in wasting it," was Deevers' blunt reply. "We're responsible. We did it to him, you and I." "So we did it. You've enough business sense for me not to have to tell you what to do." IF "Blast you, he'll go into the Atomizer soon enough!" Duncan pressed on the door and it slid back. Inside the room he pressed the door shut and stepped behind a row of tall cartons. He still couldn't see them. He moved toward the sound of their voices. "It happened because he lost his identity tag," said Rand doggedly, as if he were repeating a tiresome theme. "That's screwy." "It's the growth unit that's screwy." Deevers' voice turned frigid. "Now what are you suggesting?" A sound of disgust, then: "Don't worry, we can stop this without your losing money." "So you're convinced you have it all figured out?" "I am. My theory is that when he lost his identity tag he went into a state of shock. Suddenly he was no one. He couldn't stand it and he immediately fell back on his subconscious. Damn it, don't sneer. It's obvious he has one. Where else does he get his memories? Don't you see? He couldn't stand being a nonentity. He had to be somebody." What Deevers saw had nothing to do with what Rand was saying. His eyes widened in shock and his already pale face turned a dull shade of gray as he spied Duncan standing behind the cartons. He overturned his coffee cup as his hands flew apart in a motion of fright. An abrupt stiffening in Rand's back was the only sign that Rand, too was aware. "I'm younger and bigger than the both of you and I'm desperate," Duncan said. "Don't do anything stupid." "Don't come any closer!" croaked Deevers. His hand shot into the air, fingers splayed, and stayed there as though it could hold Duncan back. "Where's the guard?" "I knocked him out. Don't worry. I didn't hurt him." "Oh -- oh, my God," Deevers breathed and then his eyes darted to Rand. "You and your damned psychology!" Rand turned slowly in his chair. The color was gone from his face but he appeared to be calm and unalarmed. "He isn't dangerous," he said quietly. Duncan stepped cautiously from behind the cartons, his body rigid with apprehension. T hey had been drinking coffee. He filed the item as insignificant. The table was littered with cigarette stubs. Another item of non-danger. Two bunks hugged a wall and an old oil-burner warmed a coffee pot. The cartons and boxes flanking the walls bore food labels. An open closet revealed several articles of clothing -- coats, hoods, boots -- and a pair of weird outfits like rubberized diving suits hung from a wall hook. He saw no weapons at all, not until he turned and saw the gun Deevers was pointing at him. Rand must have sensed his alarm because he spun toward Deevers and snapped, "Put that away!" The gun wavered in Deevers' grasp. "What's he going to do?" Duncan's hands squeezed into fists. "You've got no right to shoot me," he said. "I haven't done anything." "He's right," said Rand. "Put it down." Deevers trembled in indecision. Suddenly he tossed the gun to the floor and watched it skid to rest at Duncan's feet. "Go on," he said huskily. "Pick it up. You're the boss here." "I don't want the gun. I want out." "There's no place to go," Rand said in a strange voice that grated on Duncan's spine. "I want to go home." "This isn't -- " "Let him go!" Deevers ground out through clenched teeth. "Can't you get it through your thick head that he's suffering?" "Go on," Deevers said to Duncan, a tight grin on his mouth. "You're free. Don't listen to him. He's crazier than you are." His throat dry, Duncan started toward the door. He was almost there when Rand called to him with such urgency that he hesitated in spite of himself. The man sat forward in his chair, his head drooping between his knees and his gaze focused blankly on his hands. "When you go out make sure you close all the doors after you," he said. "And when you come back be sure to do the same." "I'm not coming back." "You will. The delusion began breaking up the moment you said that tag was green. Just remember what I'm saying. Our lives depend on it." He raised his head and gave Duncan an exhausted look. "Don't blame us too much. We didn't mean to do it." There was no call for Rand to tremble, Duncan thought. It was just another tVick to keep him here until they finished whatever it was they'd begun. To the devil with Rand and Deever -- both! He was free, wasn't he? Free, free -- he had never known freedom to be so exalting, so mind-staggeringly exhilarating. He IF raced toward the world outside as though he had been gone from it for an eternity, his feet making clicking sounds on the steel floor as he sped through doors and hurriedly closed them after him. He was in a tunnel of steel -- a tunnel divided into three short compartments containing large crates and pieces of machinery to which he didn't give a second glance. And then he was out. At last. Out, God, from that shell of a grave. Out into -- oh, God -- what was he out in? What inconceivable wrong turn had he made? Surely something he had done explained what stretched about him in every direction. He had gone the wrong way, had missed a turn somehow, had let himself get mixed up -- for this -- this wasn't -- It was all right when they came into his home and dragged him away without caring how he suffered -- and it was all right when they threw him into a dark hole and left him like a sodden, animal hulk. It was even all right when they took away the police station and put a morass of steel caverns in its place. But, oh God, this wasn't all right! They couldn't take away the world from under his feet! T he sky was an inferno of white flame dominated by a sun that lashed the ground, in a solid sheet of light. Thick plouds bunched everywhere, yet the vast expanse was a blinding mirror. The ground beneath him was a barren waste. No soil lay there, only a pitted plane of dust that rose to choke him as he stumbled about in fear. Jagged pinnacles of rock rose all around him, some as tall as buildings, other so small he could step over them. Heat waves made the space in front of him dance crazily. He saw movement some distance away against the high, ugly horizon. He went that way, his heart slamming against his ribs in powerful thumps. As he walked he prayed that it was Earth he trod, some great and unexplored desert hidden for eternities from the sight and mind of man, some forgotten pit where the laws of nature followed their own strange patterns and had no part with normalcy. But he knew this was no abnormal piece of Earth. It was the wrecked surface of another world, some other planet, some strange and terrifying place he had never seen. Now he could see figures moving in the distance and he quickened his pace, for they looked like men. Hope reared within him and battled his fear that he was alone on an alien planet with two madmen: A great valley had been slashed out of the planet's body, a valley deep enough to accommodate a vast complexity of machinery. The long slope was terraced with deep shelves forming a gigantic stairway that descended into a pit. Great shovels scooped up tons of blasted rock and dumped them into a line of open cars that rolled on steel tracks out of a shallow lip of the valley. The tracks dipped across a clear area, where they disappeared into the jagged rocks. Crews labored at the mouth of a deep shaft in the pit, guiding a pulley that drew buckets from within the planet and carried them swiftly toward and into an open, domed, steel structure rearing at the valley's edge. Other crews worked above the valley with large sluices that filtered samples of rock into a funnel-shaped container. These were the laborers Duncan had spied from the distance and as he rushed toward them his lips formed words of greeting. He was no more than twenty feet away from the nearest one when he stopped running. The greeting froze on his lips and he stood staring in disbelief at the man who wasn't a man at all. Not one of the figures was human. They were insects -- giant, agile, antlike creatures that moved much faster than humans and possessed strength enough to lift and manipulate buckets that must have contained a quarterton of ore. They worked with silent precision and, as Duncan took a faltering step toward them, they turned to give him a glance and then went on with their work. Their bodies were a shiny brown series of hairy bubbles, tier upon tier forming two legs, a torso, two arms with three flexible digits for hands and a large, knobby head. They had two bulging eyes that glistened like dark liquid. A small hole the size of a quarter was situated beneath the eyes. He didn't see a single human being. The crews in the valley, the workers above it, the occasional laborers who moved in and out of the domed structure were ants, every one. For long minutes he let this fact be absorbed by his brain. New fear stole into his mind like fog prowling through forbidden corners, a nameless dread that soaked into him like cold water. H e started toward the nearest creatures, who were watching a stream of dirty water gush down a sluice. His fear made him clumsy and he didn't see the mound of ore until he had fallen over it. He sprawled on his back. IF staring up into the featureless face of one of the insects, who bent over him. "You have fallen," it said in a deep monotone. "I will help you up and we will both check you carefully for damage." The hands that took him and put him on his feet were hard and powerful, A small green circular plate was imbedded in the middle of the ant's thick, horny chest. Stamped upon it were the letters, down at his legs, then traveled slowly upward to rivet on his chest. "Your identity tag is gone," intoned the ant. Duncan tore himself free and began to back away. "You're a bug," he whispered in fright. "You don't know anything." All at once he was shouting. "You don't know anything!" "Are you really there?" asked the ant. "A stupid, brainless collection of instincts," Duncan rasped, slipping and sliding on the treacherous ground. The ant took a step toward him and he cried, "Get away from me!" "You have no identity," said the creature. "There is no such entity as a selfless being in a rational order. A man ought to be notified." "I'm a man," whimpered Diincan. "You are nothing. I do not comprehend why you appear to be standing there." A second ant suddenly stepped between them. Its eyes surveyed cus on Duncan. The plate on its chest bore the letters, NN. "This is a lost one," it said, pointing a digit at Duncan. "Let him alone. Do not look at him. Do not think of him. He is lost." prehend. Yes, you are right. He is lost." Duncan stumbled away and hid behind a thin stalk of rock. The two ants stared after him for a few moments, then went back to the sluice. He collapsed onto his back. He looked at the blinding sun. There was nothing in the sky but the white glare that seemed to be everywhere, reaching into his brain, illuminating his thoughts. Unbidden, the knowledge came. The sun looked like this because the atmosphere was different from that of Earth's. His chest moved up and down, drawing in lungfuls of fresh air. No. This was part of the dream and not reality. He was the dream. Everything was reality but himself. He wanted to believe it, desperately wanted to, and then he even gave up this lie. He was real and so was the incredible planet on which he lay, and these two facts added together meant that either he was capable of breathing where there was no oxygen to breathe or he was breathing substances poisonous to human beings. But he was of Earth, an Earthman, with a white house and a wife named Nan who had brown hair and soft skin. The children would resemble her when they were born. Or had they already been born? The sun burned his brain so that he couldn't remember. He lowered his head to the sterile ground and closed his eyes. trace his steps back into the tunnel. He stumbled as if blind, crashing headlong into great scarred dunes, falling into empty gullies and painfully hauling himself out. He closed all the doors behind him. Rand and Deevers had hauled Stoneface from the cell and laid him in a corner of their living quarters. Duncan stood looking at what he had believed was a human being. He had thought he was knocking out a man. What he had done was destroy a giant ant. His fists had crushed the spindly neck and nearly severed the head. The tangle of bloody loops and spongy gray matter bulged from the skull. The green chest tag with the letters NN lay on the floor like an eye that mocked him. Deevers had whirled as he came in and scuttled to the far side of the table. He sat down, his eyes hard and wary. Rand was standing in the middle of the room, his hands behind his back. He stared intently at the floor, as though he were unable or else. With shuffling steps Duncan moved until he stood directly in front of Rand. He fought to keep his gaze steady but as the man raised his head he found his own drooping until his chin touched his chest. He felt sweat forming on his back and his mind cringed as he waited for the words that would condemn him to an insane nonentity. He still wasn't prepared for them when they came. They were whips that lashed his body with steel tips, driving him into a dark tunnel where he cowered in terror. Without looking at Rand he sought for the lie in the man's tone, the subtle slyness that would prove this thing a hoax, a fraud, an IF attempt to destroy his reality for some obscure purpose. There was no mockery in Rand's voice, no evidence of fraud. He spoke evenly and without anger, frankly and cruelly, and only the queer little breathing gasps he took between sentences betrayed his awareness of the pain he was causing. "Deevers and I hold controlling interests in a company on ry. We make living organisms to labor on planets hostile to men. Our major production concerns a large insectlike creature whose job it is to mine metals unavailable on Earth on other worlds. The 'elements in all organisms are the same. Only the proportions vary. An organism grows if new matter accumulates faster than the old matter breaks down. Maturity is reached when matter-building takes place at the same rate as the old matter disintegrates. What we do is hold off this last process until our products arrive at a satisfactory size. "Our 'insects' come in three classifications -- three types conditioned and trained for three spetypes operate the sluices and mine the pits. Our two NN types are programed to monitor the others, to see that nothing goes wrong. Two years ago one of the vers and I arrived we found that spent two years trying to find out what made him and several subsequent insects psychotic. Now we know, thanks to you. "Our creatures are grown from a small portion of life-material, the patterns of development carefully manipulated so that the nervous system and relevant muscular units will be compatible with the brain that is constructed separately. As the 'insect' grows it is chemically conditioned to survive in various types of environments. The carbohydrates, fats and proteins constituting the brain are designed in such a way that they reproduce a human brain, not just a reasonable facsimile but an exact duplication of the brain of a man who once lived. Who the man was whose brain we used as a model doesn't mattbr. What does matter is that we've created something we don't understand. Deevers and I wanted time to test our new products thoroughly before they were brought here, but the government needed our 'insects' and pressured us into giving up that part of our program. We consented because we had no reason to suspect our 'insects' knew anything other than what they had been taught. The peculiar thing is, we're pretty certain those creatures working out there dont know anything else. "But you do and the others like you did. A few hours ago you lost your identity tag. Maybe it was snagged by one of the pulley hooks that draw buckets to the sluices. However it was lost, you found yourself without an identity. Your brain rejected the concept of nonentity and fashioned you a new self. We don't know how or why this happened. We don't know how you could acquire memories of Earth and human life and culture when nobody taught them to you, but we know that you have. "I'd like to stop this whole business right now. I want a year to study my products, throw every psychological test in the book at them, find out just what it is I've made, whether I've made a creature satisfied to do its work as I intended or an alien monstrosity condemned to misery. But they won't give me that year. The government says no. The 'insects' will be used to produce what Earth needs regardless' of my objections. So there's only one thing I can do -- and I hope to God it's the right thing and not just a minor interference that will aggravate the situation. From now on the workers will be made without any real identity. They won't be trained to self-awareness in the sense that there's any significance attached to it. Their letter types will be attached under the loop between their thorax and pelvis and they'll know nothing about it. I hope it works. I hope that if they have no identities -- if they aren't taught that there is such a thing as real self -- they won't be able to lose them. "That's all I can do. I can't think of anything else at the moment." raised a hand and covered his eyes as if he were trying to block off some appalling view. His fingers dug savagely into his eyes and his shoulders slumped. Duncan lifted one of his own hands and stared at it. He could see the creases in his palm, the dark hair above the knuckles oh its back. He felt his heart pumping blood through his body. The dream -- if the dimension of unreality into which his mind had plunged could be called a. dream -- wouldn't go away. His stomach lurched and he clamped his lips tightly. He finally raised his head and looked at Rand. IF "What happened to the others?" "They wanted to die." A voice whispered, "And so do I -- " and Duncan realized it was his own. "We have an Atomizer in the domed building by the valley," Rand said through white lips. "We use it to destroy the residue of rock collected from the last stages of our mining." . Residue of rock. But to die as such would be to have lived not at all. And Duncan had lived. For the past hours he had lived. And so his death ought to have reason in it. But what reason was there for him? He searched his memories and fastened upon one. Men once were put to death for crimes. And he was guilty of the crime of deception. He had pretended that he sprang from the loins of Man. This was a lie. His birth had been an assembly-line production, his conception accomplished within an insentient piece of laboratory equipment. He believed that Earth was his home, even as the earthworm's home is in her soil. This, too, was a lie. He had no home for the word connoted a place of growth, warmth and compassion, not an alien island called Venus where nothing grew but time, where warmth was measured in the destructive holocaust of a blast furnace and where compassion was a cancerous spread in a He was guilty. His sentence -- death. "I'm ready," he said. Rand looked at him steadily. "I want to go with you." Duncan hesitated. "I know you're still in the dream," said Rand. "You can't go alone." Duncan tried to speak, but all he could do was nod. Rand took one of the weird suits from the wall hook and began to put it on. Duncan watched. Deevers sat at the table, relaxed now as he watched a trail of cigarette smoke climb toward the ceiling. As Duncan started toward him his head jerked around and his thin cheeks went hollow. "You and I have something in common," Duncan said. "We're both lacking in humanness." Deevers' mouth drew into a sullen line. His face darkened. He started to say something, then suddenly clamped his lips shut and turned his face away. Rand led the way out to the second compartment, where he wheeled a small open car into the corridor. He and Duncan stepped into it, Rand behind the wheel. The car moved down the corridor until the last steel door slid shut behind them. Out in the open the car plowed effortlessly across gullies and between jutting rocks, carrying the two toward the valley and the domed building. The sun was harsh and merciless. To Duncan it became a soft yellow orb that made him blink his eyes. The ground was rough and porous beneath them. He imagined that he saw grass swaying in the wind, watched a rabbit dart from its burrow and sniff at the air for a moment before it lunged into a thicket. Rand took him into the building past the fiery furnaces that he didn't remember, along a twisting corridor that led into a blindingly hot room where yellow gold leaped down a narrow sluice and splattered into small molds that rolled away on steel tracks. The Atomizer was taller than a man and twice as wideIt was a box of metal with a transparent door. When Duncan looked into it he saw the air within shimmer as desert air shimmers beneath the sun. Rand had him by the arm. "Can you hear me?" he asked, his face pale behind the visor, the hand on Duncan's arm trembling. Duncan nodded. "You only have to step inside and close the door." He took a step toward the box. Rand held him fast. "Let the dream go! What good has it done you? You can't go like this." Duncan knew that if he were a man on Earth condemned to die it could happen the same way. Someone might come and say. Let me give you something. Its perfectly all right, the law allows it. It will make your suffering easier to bear. You wont know where you are. You wont even know who you are... No... As he stepped through the door he was looking at a tiny splash of light that might have been made by the sum He closed the door with his own hand. He saw Rand's lips forming the soundless words, "Goodbye, The dream sheltered him, reared invincibly between him and the specter of an 'insect' self. In his mind he cried,  am a man! and his reality was victorious over the other reality. The destructive forces that streamed through the atoms of his tough, leathery body penetrated the sensitive softness of a human being, and his journey into oblivion was painful and terrible. As he desired.  IF current  classic # Cast # Street New York, New York # Robert Silverbetg. #( Robert Bloch. # #I Fifth Avenue New York, New York # verberg. # Goulding, John Wyndham and Mervyn Peake. #c Cooper and Roger Lancelyn Green. S# # # Cast # Street New York, New York # Gardner Dozois. # Arthur C. Clarke # # Fifth Avenue New York, New York # Jones. # Silent. # Davidson. # Edward D. Hoch. # June Wetherell. # back. # B y now most readers of  science fiction must have learned that John W. Campbell died on July #, #. The loss to the field cannot be measured. During thirty-four years as an editor he discovered and developed most of today's top writers and his ideas of what science fiction should be were largely responsible for its evolution into an accepted category of book publishing. Because of his importance as an editor, however, his contributions as a writer are too often overlooked. Most of his works are not currently available in book form -- so this time let's dwell briefly on books that are not on the stands, though they should be. Campbell must really be considered as two writers, both sufficiently major to merit lasting attention. Under his own name, his stories appeared from # through #. These featured heavy science -- in them the limits of man's knowledge and achievements were stretched well beyond other writers' limitations. The wonder of science and the power of technology were more important in them than style, mood or characterization. They were never meant to be literary achievements -- but as space opera they were breathtaking. To my taste, they were better than the work of E.E. Smith, whose books are still available. Under the byline of Don A. Stuart, from # until #, Campbell established himself as an entirely different writer. He was the first man to write consistently the type of fiction we now call modern and he did it so well that his stories still win a high place in any list of the best of all time. He was preeminent in two fields. Yet today I cannot find a single volume of his work in print, though some of the stories are available in several top anthologies. The trouble seems to be that Campbell wrote before major book publishers had discovered science fiction and only "fan" publishers were giving out contracts. Most of his books were printed at least twenty years ago. Now, since they have been in book form, the hardcover houses won't reprint them and the softcover people don't pick them up because they aren't in hard covers or because their original sales were -- necessarily -- small. If that would seem to indicate that most publishers remain ignorant of the field and its potentials, the implication is purely deliberate. The Stuart stories were usually short, suitable only for collections, with the exception of a single short novel entitled The Elder Gods. This came out as half of a book from one of the "fan" houses. It is a fine sword-and-sorcery novel, having some of the magic of A. Merritt but a lot more logic in its development than much of Merritt's work. It should have been reprinted often, but I can find no evidence that it is to appear again. Of the two collections once issued. Who Goes There? was brought out in soft covers nearly twenty years ago, but has not been reissued. I understand from Scott Meredith, Campbell's agent, that the second collection. Cloak of Aesir, will appear in soft covers shortly. If you find it on your stands -- buy it at once. It may be your only chance to get a fair sampling of Campbell's writing. Certainly there seem to be no plans to issue any of the work done under Campbell's own name. These were once fairly well represented in book form, but I can now find none in print. The almost legendary Arcot-Wade-and-Morey stories were brought out by Ace as The Black Star Passes and Islands of Space, which concludes with perhaps the wildest development of space opera ever imagined. Ace also published The Mightiest Machine, though not its sequel. The Incredible Planet. Other Campbell novels never appeared in book form. One of these was originally published in a magazine under a different title for each installment, but is remembered as either The Mother World or Conquest of the Planets. I consider it one of the best of the hardscience novels -- it was based on Dirac's theories in which space and matter are treated as different states of the same thing, and capable of giving men powers beside which psi would be kindergarten stuff. It seems highly peculiar that one of the best and most influential writers of science fiction should have no books currently on the stands and only one promised for the future. It is especially strange when one considers the number of books that are available but should not be! O NE of these latter, incidentally, is The Sea Is Boiling Hot, by George Bamber (Ace, IH). Superficially, from the dust jacket, this should be a timely story of the struggle against pollution at a time when man can exist only in enclosed cities. But the story begins with the "hero" Heron knowing that he has the answer to Ihe problem; hence, there is no longer any plot after about page #. Then we learn at once that Heron has no intention of revealing this secret: "I know but I won't tell." We now have a coy fool as our main character. "Science" is introduced when the author, who apparently never heard of oxidation and reduction, suggests that the opposite of "combustion" must be given a new term, "imbustion." (Doesn't know much about language, either, it seems.) We fiddle around with assorted sex scenes at a totally unemotional level and then get into a chase scene, to wind up with Heron giving up the big secret at the end, for no better reason than he had at the beginning. At this point boredom grows climactic. I really can't believe that publishers are that hard up for material! There is one book, however, that is both available and excellent in every way. This is the softcover edition of what may be the best anthology of science fiction ever put together. At a price of #, Science Fiction Hall of Fame, edited by Robert Silverberg (Avon), is a book that should be bought at once by anyone who doesn't have the hardcover version. I considered it a bargain at more than five times the price, so it's the best buy in science fiction now. I hope that this volume will remain in print for at least another decade, since it makes the best one-volume introduction to science fiction I have found. But in case it suffers the usual fate of giving place to something new and not as good after a short time. I'd advise getting more than one copy. At this price you can afford it -- and owning a spare is better than being afraid to lend your sole copy. As usual, of course, most books lie somewhere between the above two extremes. One to which I have been looking forward is the sequel to The Warlock in Spite of Himself from which I derived more pure fun than from almost any other novel last year. King Kobold, by Christopher Stasheff (Ace, #), is not up to the high level of the former book, I'm sorry to say, but I would have enIF joyed it moderately well if I hadn't expected too much. Mostly it seems lacking the spontaneity of its predecessor. This time. Rod Gallowglass, the High Warlock, is somehow more a figurehead than he was in the earlier work. He is less personally involved -- he now holds an official position where his job demands he handle things, and the pressures on him are much weaker. Too, the reader is shown too many events that are outside the protagonist's ken. This puts one in the position of frequently knowing more about the story than he does and further saps interest. The inventions in the current volume seem inferior to those in the previous novel. Nothing in this book equals the wonderfully zany ghosts and their king. No character stands out as did the loyal-disloyal aide and enemy we met before. Even the robot horse does nothing but sink into the background -- and Gramarye becomes the setting for just another future sword and sorcery struggle. The menace this time around is not internal to Gramarye or to Rod's lack of knowledge. We have a Menace -- a typically ugly, brutish menace, apparently. Creatures like Neanderthal men (as pictured in too many stories) are being led against the king and Rod is summoned to handle them. Okay, turns out that the reasons for the invasion aren't quite what we might expect; but they are not that much of a surprise, either. There are some excellent touches, such as the relationship of an old witch and a hermit wizard and their corporeal but unborn son. But somehow, the whole matter of the son becomes contrived and lackluster when he has to be fitted into the interplanetary organization to which Rod belongs. Stasheff writes well and some of his science fiction and fantasy combine smoothly. But this book seems overplotted and underdone -- too routine for the writer's obvious talents. I'd give it a lukewarm recommendation -- but it's worth reading if you don't expect too much of the evening spent with it. And I still think Stasheff is going to make a reputation as a fine writer. A nother mild disappoint ment is The Flying Sorcerers, by David Gerrold and Larry Niven (Ballantine, #). Niven has become a major writer and I expect Gerrold to establish himself as top rank shortly. But in this book, it seems to me, they've taken too many bites from a single pie. The book falls into two sections. The first, which fits the title, deals with a local sorcerer who finds his territory invaded by a human scientist -- a fellow sorcerer dealing in other magic, from his view. Shoogar does what any honest sorcerer must 'do -- he resorts to every dishonest trick in his book. And the war between Shoogar and "Purple," the human, is a lovely war indeed. This takes up the first half of the book, and it is delightful. But then we find that the war isn't over, exactly. Purple turns up again and this time he has been stranded -- his ferry ship down to the planet is destroyed and his new location is one from which he cannot make radio contact with the main ship. His object is to get the primitive natives, half under Shoogar's control, to build him a balloon and let him fly to where the ship can be ordered down. There's a good deal of ingenious work in this half, also. But it is no longer a light and comic book. Shoogar is shoved into the background, where he can only wander around muttering darkly and planning pretty revenge. From a clever and resourceful man who took on a power bigger than himself -- and won -- he becomes only a stupid nuisance who cannot understand what goes on. The basic story of a stranded Earthman who has to turn a primitive tribe into a post-industrialrevolution people to get them to build what he needs is a good situation; and the effects on the primitives are well conceived, as is the technology developed. But the two halves just don't make a whole. The second half is made less interesting by the presence of Shoogar and the first half is made somewhat less pointed when we realize how little the sorcerer deserved all the cheering we were doing for him. It is quite impossible now to believe that this pitiful, ignorant warlock could have accomplished what we had to accept before from him. It's not at all a bad book -- but it isn't all a good one. The first half, to the triumph of Shoogar, is well worth reading. But the book should then be put aside for a few months before trying the second half. There's also a minor complaint I have with the book. Niven and Gerrold have loaded it with names slightly distorted from those of science-fiction writers and fans. Sure, it's a slightly interesting guessing game decoding them. But it soon ceases to be funny and it distracts from following the story and makes everything too much of a put-on. This is basically an amateur trick; it should be reserved for fanzines, not used in professional work. A somewhat similar fault mars Jack of Shadows, by Roger Zelazny (Walker, #). Through half of the book. Jack is a sort of Til Eulenspiegel -- a puckish waif among the "gods" of a curious IF world, where his dominion and power lie in the shadows of the land between light-side and darkside. This world might be one of those constructed by men such as the protagonist of Isle of the Dead. It has to be a construct, since it is carefully arranged to have no rotation of day and night; yet the bright side is shielded against too much heat and the dark is provided with heat. It has its own "gods," or rulers, with extraordinary powers; and one of their functions is to maintain the various balances on the world, however much they feud otherwise. The first half of the book carries Jack to the cold area where magic rules -- and since his powers involve rnagic, this is all right. But then he moves to the lighted area -- an area singularly similar to today's Earth and hence rather uninteresting. There he acquires a knowledge of science, goes back to defeat his enemies with his new powers and becomes master, only to find he has to perform his balancing act alone -- if he can -- by rather routine travels into a computer complex, lacking the magic to which we've become accustomed. The first part is minor Zelazny, quite enjoyable. The second half breaks away, becomes rather grim and ugly -- and loses all the glamor it needs to be anything but dull. In the end, because we don't learn enough about Jack and his origins, the whole thing seems rather pointless. Wait for the softcover version; it's certainly not worth Walker's price. F inally we come to John Norman. His Raiders of Got (Ballantine, #) is the sixth in the series. I find myself unable to resist the Gor novels, despite the irritation I usually feel when reading them. (Except for the third, where I found the PriestKings excellently handled.) Norman seems capable of making every mistake a writer can make. Yet he is also the only writer today who seems able to capture any of the feeling I used to find in the Martian stories of Edgar Rice Burroughs. And while my taste may still be adolescent in this, I seem to find a great many who agree and who also turn to the Gor novels -- they may be gaffe, but they're the only game of that sort in town. And on all-over balance, they've captured more of the romance and appeal of the old Barsoom novels than anyone else has been able to develop.  This time Norman has made almost none of the mistakes of his last two books. He has largely gotten off his adolescent sex kick where he was out establishing Men's Lib by proving, that every woman wants to be a slave and that nothing captures the female heart like a good beating. And he hasn't tricked up his method of telling the story as he did in the last -- he tells it straight this time and there are no lapses that have to be covered by flashbacks where the real action should be shown. Obviously he can learn by experience. But he has fallen into another error -- less annoying, yet some-, how less fascinating. He seems to have lost purpose as a result of trying a rather commendable experiment. Most of his books lately have been centered on the mystery of alien invaders and Cabot's search to help the PriestKings defeat them. This book starts that way, but then gets sidetracked. Apparently, Norman decided that he was tired of a hero who was all strong and brave and resolute. He makes Cabot demonstrate a moment of surrender and cowardice, followed by self-loathing -- not a bad idea in a way, even though it seems revolutionary in this type of story. Unfortunately, perhaps because there is no precedent, Cabot seems not to know how to go about demonstrating a weakness. Instead of seeing himself as having been forced into a hopeless situation by a concatenation of irresistible circumstances, Cabot just suddenly turns coward for a moment. The scene isn't convincing -- its development is too quick and too much like other cases where he was not afraid. Then the book goes glimmering off into vaporous self-loathing in which Cabot seems to feel that since he is now scum of Gor, he might as well act as scummily as the pirates he joins. Trouble is, he really doesn't act thus. He does a few things -- as if periodically Norman remembered and threw the events that way -- out of heroic character, but generally he is the same old Cabot. And in the end -- the author's intent may be excellent -- Cabot's discovery that any man can have moments of weakness without being less a hero is also too sudden, too easy and not at all convincing. There is a story of romance and adventure mixed up in ail this. But somehow, once he sees himself as scum, Cabot seems to lose all motivation, forget his mission for the Priest-Kings and mostly drift. The impression I get of the story is that it also drifts. It has none of the earlier faults, but it also has none of the earlier drive. Still, I recommend it to all Gor fans. It has a lot of Norman's color, and by getting over his bad habits, Norman has put himself in a good form to continue the series. Anyhow, at # pages, there is a lot of action and adventure for the money !  IF Separating humans from would-be humans the invisible barrier trapped them both! forest was still. Quiet. Drugged by midday heat that set the horizon to shimmering. It was a stronger sun than the sun of Bromius and its warmth ran along her shoulders and arms like a tangible sheath. She would miss it. It would not be long now before Tregasid Three completed its mission to the other planets of the system and appeared overhead like a ruby star to call her back. The cycle was complete. She and Atan had recorded the slow drift of a year's seasons, each more pleasant and agreeable than the last. All the data that anybody could ever require about the blue-green watery planet was methodically stored and indexed in the memory banks of the computer. Ava's thoughts stopped short. "Pleasant," "agreeable" -- those were danger words. She was using aesthetic judgment again. She was being unscientific. It was just as well that she had not spoken them out loud when Atan was around. In his present mood he would have had them in the log as sure as a gun. Where was he anyway? Not much more than a hectare on the low plateau had been sealed off by the force field, but he had a knack of losing himself in it. Almost as though he were deliberately hiding from her. To some extent that was fine. He had turned out to be a poor companion for the long haul. He worked a sixteen-hour day and slept through the balance. As a professional she could admire the quality of the work he was doing. No other survey team would turn in a fuller or better documented brief. But he was programed like an android whose courtesy tape had been omitted. At the foot of the escarpment a slow clear river ran silently into the lush forest. On the far bank was a sandy clearing, a gold ochre strip, below viridian foliage dotted with asterisks of cobalt blue and lemon yellow. As she watched, a small family party of hominids stepped from the leaf screen and walked cautiously to the water's edge. Either she was getting less critical or these were near enough in type to herself to be called human. She was all set to wave, then stopped. Any movement on her part would only frighten them off. All mobile life forms had taken to leaving a wide gap between themselves and the invisble barrier that protected the strangers. Ava watched the male wade thigh deep in the water, splash glittering handfuls over his head IF and chest and then submerge until only his head was showing. The female was watching the forest, child straddled over one hip. She was less heavily furred than her partner. Straight black hair dropped below shoulder level in a smooth cowl, breasts were taut and neat. Tiring of watching the swimmer, she set the child down and walked away toward the tree line with a leg action that was feminine for any hominid culture in the galaxy. When she returned she held a broad leaf across both hands, on it a small pyramid of large golden berries. The bather waded ashore, scattering diamond droplets, the drag of the current emphasized in the powerful swing of his massive shoulders. At the river's edge he gathered a double handful of water and threw it in a shower at the other two. The distance was too great for speech sounds to reach Ava, but the mime told her that it went like a bomb. The child rolled over and over in exaggerated, joyous terror and the female put down her fruit and ran for the male. A wild cheerful tussle in the shallows followed. A va lay back on her flat rock and watched the sky. From horizon to horizon it was a clear cerulean blue. Beyond it was the black night of space and infinitely far was the cinnamon-tinged sky of Bromius. She felt suddenly more alone than at any time during the mission. To Atan the family group at the river would consist of savages. Barely human. Items to list in his log with a total portrait, voice prints, biology, life style -- all the data that described a specimen and left out the vital parameters that made a living man. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. When she looked again they were sitting eating the fruit and the man's -- yes, he was a man -- hand was resting comfortably on the woman's thigh. Ava took off her electrum filigree headband and let her hair fall in a dark mane. Then he stood up and walked slowly down the slope to the river. The force field was set some meters out from the edge of the water so that Atan could take specimens of fish for his collection, A small inflated power boat he used was drawn up on the shingle. The child aw her first, stopped eating and pointed. The woman leaped to her feet, picked him up and ran for the trees, the man following more slowly, facing the danger, teeth bared. At the river Ava stopped. Her reflection, familiar and unfamiliar, stared back. They had seen that creature. Tall, pale-skinned, shining metal cloth tabard with the double helix of Bromius shining with every finish that could be devised to repel all known pests that might be harmful. No wonder they had run for the bush. She was outside experience, a mechanical monster with a human head. Before she realized what she intended to do, Ava had zipped down the seals of her tabard and lifted it over her head, leaving it to stand like a decapitated trunk. Then she pulled off her boots, stood for a 'count of five in her maize leotard, shrugged, wriggled lithely out of St and walked into the water. If she had brought her activator, she would have switched out the field and swum across. As it was, she floated in the warm water, jackknifed to the sandy bottom to look at the plant life and came up streaming like a half-tide rock to hear her name being called. "Ava." "Down here." Crotch deep in water she watched Atan stride down the slope, looking across the river -- there still was movement in the trees. Then he saw her and stopped dead. His voice came, hard-edged, "What do you think you are doing?" The question made her analyze her motives. Maybe the answer she chose was true. "I thought they should see we are flesh and blood under all the gear. We must look like mechanical marvels. It's no wonder they won't come near." "So you thought a strip show would bridge the culture gap. Do you realize that without the barrier you might have been carried off and forcibly mated. Do you want to end up as one of the cows in a bull ape's family group?" What had seemed a natural thing to do now looked ridiculous in her own eyes. Also she was conscious that a cuirasse esthetique was not cover enough in a dialogue with a fully clothed male standing on higher ground. She decided she hated his guts, crossed her arms over her breasts and said, matching his tone, "There's no need to go on. I'm not stupid. Go away and I'll dress. What do you want me for anyway? You seem to be able to manage everything single-handed." "Some calculation you should check. You are, after all, the mathIF ematician of the station. I should be glad to have a few minutes of your attention. Let me remind you that our time is running out. The spacer could arrive any day." Ava debated whether to scoop up a double handful of water and throw it at him. Or a rock. But he was too far away. Missing would ruin it as a gesture. She dropped her arms and began to wade elegantly for the home shore. Atan turned on his heel and strode up the hill. T he main meal of the day was taken at # hours local reckoning. At first they had taken time over it, talking about the work of the day, reminiscing about Bromius, although there was a partial block on that. Deep briefing had not only given basic sex responses a shrewd knock; it had aimed to build in an inhibition of any nostalgic longing for their distant home planet. Theoretically they were proof against the fifth column that worked from the inside of every head to make bricks of unhappiness with or without straw. In the early days of the Mission Ava had reckoned she had been lucky in the raffle. Besides being a fantastically good organizer, Atan had been a pleasant and witty companion. They had gotten along fine until he started the recluse bit. At the same time he had taken to pulling rank and using this edgy hectoring tone as though he resented her being here at all. Currently he was eating a nut cutlet simulate and checking over a sheaf of notes that represented the day's take. He had not even said he liked the omelet and she had spent at least ten minutes of her life's finite span working out the combination on the dispenser. Stung at last to the direct question, she said, "Well, what did you make of it?" Atan said, "Comprehensive as far as it goes, but I've only scratched the surface. Do you realize there could be at least three hundred and fifty thousand species of plants. Very much more complex than anything we have on Bromius. I've used four main groups for classification. Algae, mosses, ferns, seed-bearers. That seems to work out for this locale and I'd guess it would serve for the whole planet since the deviations in soil and climate are not very great. That reminds me -- I have some specimens to fix before they go off. I'd like your help at first light. I want to do a final survey downriver. Pollen count over a measured square kilometer. Set up a sampling grid." "" Please set up a sampling grid." "I haven't time. You do it." The handiest missile was the water jug and she had it poised to throw, but he was already halfway across the clearing to the geodesic dome that served as a lab. She cleared disposable tableware into the destructor and watched it dissolve. It looked like the only entertainment she was going to get. Atan was set for several hours, then he would go to bed. Ava went to her own roomy cell, put on an actualizer tape, switched it off and looked out through the window. The planet's sun was standing on the horizon like a vermilion disk. It was the time of day when there was a sense that anything could happen. She remembered the primitives and the sun reminded her of the golden fruit they had left on the sand. That would be something now for Atan's collection. Edible, too. God, it would serve him right if she put them on the menu for his next meal in spite of the absolute prohibition against eating any local product. Taking a sudden decision she strapped on her equipment belt and returned to the clearing. A glow came from the dome. He was stuck at the coal face. No problem. When she reached the river bank the sun was below the level and streamers of cadmium yellow and vermilion made a backdrop for the forest. She pushed out the lightweight dinghy, neutralized the power screen and headed for the far shore. Outside the barrier there was more noise -- a confused racket like a crackle of static, as though the leaf curtain covered a frenzy of living action. Light levels were dropping fast and it took her longer to cross than she had expected -- the current was doing its best to sweep the flimsy craft downstream. When she hit the beach she had to use a hand lamp to search the ground. Noise cut off as she walked up the sand and she felt the menace of sudden silence. Atan could be right. She was behaving like a fool. Any minute there could be a rush from the forest and she would be cut off. Atan would not even know where to look for her. If he wanted to, the selfsufficient swine. Then she saw what she was looking for, kneeled down and packed seven large hard berries into a pouch, using her left hand and keeping a roving beam round the tree line. When it was done she fairly ran for the boat, pushed off and spun the rheostat into full-drive position, leaving a creamy wake across the dark river. IF Atan took the half beaker of reddish juice without comment. Before breakfast he had fueled the excursion module and was obviously anxious to move off. She had intended to serve pieces of fruit; but when she had cut across the tough golden rind she had found a reddish pulp and a mass of small hard seeds. It had been a job for the extractor to make a drink of it, acid, sweet, drying to the palate but a new and pleasant taste. As he lifted the glass she almost warned him, but a persuasive voice in her ear put in its oar. He deserves all he gets. Take him down a peg. Tell him later. After all, it isnt poison. Youve out the declaration that there's been no breach of biocontamin ation regs. See how he gets around that one... Ten minutes later they were over tree-top height, clearing the invisible palisade and following the broad river. A tan swore as he watched  blood well from a five-centimeter gash in the palm of his left hand. He dropped the net with its still struggling captive. "You should have waited," Ava said. "Another minute and the nerve shot would have worked for sure. Hold it up. I'll get a suture." She ran the twenty meters to the module which was standing on its tripod jacks and scanning the area like a patient hbund dog. When she was two paces away it began to bleep a warning, picking up the urgency in her head. She said, "Shut up you fool, it's me -- " and snatched a medicare pack. Atan was standing like the statue of a demagogue and obediently sat across a handy tree trunk for attention. Absorbed by the professional angle Ava joined him knee to knee and took his hand on her lap. Neat economical movements sterilized the wound and ran in a flexible sealing tissue. Basic inoculations would take care of any alien microbe that might have gotten into the blood. Though for that matter she ought to take a sample smear from the creature's mouth and run it through the analyzer. It could just be one that nobody had thought about. Concentrating on the chore, she was not watching Atan's right hand. When it homed on the nape of her neck and pushed its fingers gently up through her hair, she was a surprised medic. She went still as any stone. Atan shuffled along his log cleverly getting his knees on the inside track. The medicare pack sealed itself and rolled clear. A prudent housekeeper, she tried to catch it, but she was held fast. The damaged hand, proving that she had done a good repair job. Joined its partner to clamp her head in a firm grip. Considering that she had been angling for a little personal attention for some time, her reaction was unreasonable. "Atan. No. The codex." To show that he knew all about it, he quoted section three from the top harshly, as though it had been set up to do him a personal injury. "'Also, in addition to the prohibitions above relating to all physical contact with aliens, there is the absolute prohibition against unnecessary physical contact between partners on a mission. Variations in radiation level cannot be precisely determined; pairing bonds established outside the home gravisphere could result in mutant genes being imported to Bromusian stock.' Do I need to go on?" Head still fixed for a close view of his sternum, she was ideally placed to evaluate the old crack that love does not lie in gazing into a partner's eyes but in looking together in the same direction. She remembered it. He had it right. It could be his favorite bedtime reading. They were considering the same text but he sounded angry about it. Finger pressure swiveled her head on its stalk. His face was unexpectedly close. Eyes were serious, but gave the lie to the voice print. She was being looked at as though she were his apple from way back. Fighting a rearguard, Ava said, "No -- " again. Atan said, "I like the shape of your mouth when you say that. It's convenient." A gram of practice being worth a kilo of theory, he proved his point, homing on her lips with the precise component orientation that longstanding practice as a technical expert made second nature. Ava's hands were flat on his chest pushing for out. Then the steam leaked. Her hands traveled up his tabard and locked behind his head. If she could have gotten in a final crack it might have been -- if you can't beat it, join it. After two minutes she knew she didn't want to beat it anyway and she was thinking unselfishly of Atan. As the headman of the group, he would have to pick up the tab when Tregasid Three made her planetfall. There would be the routine session on the recall couch to check that what was in the manifest was all there was of action for the trip. IF It would be out and about on the screen in full color with the psycho team having a ball. So far there was no real damage. The solid achievment of the mission would outweigh it. He might get away with a blue star entry on his profile and a norhinal fine. Using a last kick of failing will power, she twisted free. "Atan, listen to me." "And why not? I haven't told you, but your voice is the rarest music. I particularly like the way you say Atan with that precise palatal tap on the T. Say it again." "Atan!" "That's it. Sends anticipatory shivers down my spine." "Atan, I'm sorry." "What do you have to be sorry about? Is it that nude bathing bit? You're thinking you triggered off all the chemically depressed lecher in me. Why do you think I've been avoiding you these last months? Do you know why? I couldn't trust myself to be near you. If anybody has to be sorry, it's me. But don't worry. There won't be any problem. The record will show that you want from you is a promise that when we get back you'll consider a pairing application. God, how can you reduce what I feel to legal jargon." "Atan, I'm ashamed. You're making me feel ashamed. Please listen to me." "Okay. The forest's ferny floor is yours." "Let me go." "Is that necessary?" "You might think so when I tell you what I did." meter away, Ava marshaled the facts, distracted by her audience's unaffected pleasure in simply looking at her. She reckoned that getting what you wanted had its problems and that it would be a fine thing if people could hit the mean between extremes of behaviour. Also she recognized that she didn't want to trigger off a reversion to the iron man routine  She moistened her lips with the tip of her tongue and said, "Atan." The excursion pod, as if on cue, went into spasm with its 'highpitched bleep and Atan swung oft his log and was beside her, one hand clamped arolind her waist, the other sawing around with a blaster, hunting a target. Nothing extraordinary was visible, but the urgent signal went on. Something could be lurking on the far side of the pod, hidden by its petal antennae. He said, "Wait," and took two steps. A net of fine sticky creeper dropped silently from the foliage overhead and turned him into a cocoon. Ava had a count of five to reflect that the book had a point. Personal involvement came at the expense of prudence. If A tan had not been distracted they would have been back on board with their specimen and with mega power under their thumb. Her own cowl dropped neatly over her head and the set filled with extras as hominid types whipped out of the wookwork on all sides. There are two sides to every situation. All the newcomers looked pleased. Enormous jaws were hinged open in grins that bared large yellow teeth. Flat noses were wrinkled with delight. ' One massive male, feet astride, toes turned in, long arms hanging almost to his knees was jigging up and down as though on hydraulic jacks' For all their technical knowhow, Atan and she had fallen for a stone-age ploy. Maybe because they had been sidetracked by a basic drive that had a stone-age simplicity. It was humiliating to believe that the book could be right all along. There was a moral in that somewhere, but there was no time to track it to its hole. The group had stopped its celebration dance and had closed in. They were not the same species as the family group she had watched across the river. These were hairier and more heavily built. One step farther back in the evolutionary chain or even coming up on a different track altogether. Two males with hand axes -- clumsy stones with one face flaked into a cutting edge -- began working on her net. The links parted. One of them took her in a comprehensive grip so that she could not move her hands. His pungent body scent assaulted her nostrils. Instinct had told their captors that the alien's equipment was dangerous and they systematically peeled away her gear as though husking a nut. The leotard gave a little trouble, but even before it was sliced away it was clear that they had gotten, themselves a surprise package. She had larger charms than Atan and everybody wanted to touch. Passing around the inquisitive circle, a bewildered lay figure, she was only three meters from Atan when the excursion pod made a solo and strictly unrepeatable entry into the score. Curiosity, evolution's handmaid, had moved a buck male to squeeze himself in the pilot's seat and rummage around with the switchgear. To further his research he had ripped away the hood of the instruIF ment cluster and raveled out a bundle of color-coded leads. Twisting them in a cat's cradle and sawing them against a sharp edge to cut them free, he beat the maker's safety factor and brought the built-in destructor mechanism into circuit. Bleeps accelerated to prestissimo. froze the action into a still and a deep resonance that shook the floor. The excursion pod made its last trip in fist-sized gobbets that flew around the grove like shrapnel, with the head of the tribe's first scientist, sliced at the neck by a flailing strut, opting for vertical take-off, still set in a happy grin of achievement. the game. The rising tempo of the bleeps from the pod had alerted him to the chance on the way. As the flash lit the grove and the hands gripping him opened in reaction, he was already hurling himself sideways toward Ava. He knocked her off her uneasy balance and was arched over her, shielding her with his body as the trash surged around the company. Before the shock wave had passed he was hauling her to her feet and making for the trees. The going was rough on two sophisticates used to having a better powerweight ratio than anything in the neighborhood. But Atan kept going for a kilometer before he hauled her to a stop in a flowering shrub. Chest heaving prettily, Ava opened her mouth to speak and got a hand clamped over it. Eyes rolling with emotion she stuck it out for half a minute and finally took a bite. Atan said, "What do you want to do that for?" "I have to breathe." "Oh. Oh, well. It doesn't matter -- they seem to have packed it in." It was true. Forest noises, after a digestive lull wre notching up to full strength, but threre was. no. sound of beaters breaking through the undergrowth. Atan said, "That was. close. We shouldn't hang around. You okay?" "That's relative. Compared to when?" "Discounting wear and tear, you look fine. Exercise brings color to that alabaster skin." Ava reckoned that the human situation was fraught with caprice. From being a human clam, Atan had switched to being an. unseasonable talker. Also she was being gotten at by a pushy twig. "There could be others. Shouldn't we get on?" "Ruthless female logic at its best. Allow me," Before she could say anything he had picked her up and lifted her clear to open ground. Contact reminded her that she still had a confession to make. "Atan I was telling you. It's all my fault." "Save it. Tell me tonight and I'll fix a suitable background of erotic music. Now I'm not too clear about the direction. I reckon we should find the river and follow the bank. That way we can't miss." He was right. But it took longer than either of them had believed possible. When they stumbled hand in hand around the last bend, wading in half a meter of water on the uneven river bed as a poor alternative to thigh deep undergrowth, the sun had set and the small boat was a dark blur on their private beach. Atan stopped dead and Ava, programed to keep moving, went ahead until she was brought up short at the end of his arm. 'What is it now?" "The screen. We're on the wrong side of the screen." Truth has its place. But Ava, a tired wet nude wanting a bed, found it the last straw. Her knees buckled and she dropped neatly into the river, disappearing as though by sleight of hand. gasid Three looked at the main scanner without any enthusiasm. Vectors were right for a quick move out of the gravisphere and would not be right again for a period of weeks. With three more pickups to make he could not afford the time. Latest reports from the home base made this mission a pointless exercise. Research teams from other ships had already reported in with better results nearer home. Any information from the blueand-white watery sphere below was strictly for the archives. Tough on the two researchers who had spent a year down there. Tough on them all, for that matter -- nobody handed out medals for a survey staff that found nothing. Atan's hectare of cultivated ground was centered on the screen and looked deserted. The communications exec made no friends by putting it into words. "I've been calling for the last hour. Commander. The signal is being received. How long do I go on?" "Give me the link." Javeh watched the screen. "Javeh calling Atan. Prepare to beam out. Acknowledge." IF Nothing intelligent moved below. A slight breeze rolled an empty can from where it had lodged at the foot of the dome and trundled it across the clearing. In its way it made the point. The ship was wasting time. The camp was deserted. Any one of a hundred things could have happened. On one station a freak magnetic field that had not shown up on the first survey had drifted over the site, deranged the protective barrier and left the team wide open to attack. One sight of the wreckage and he had known that search was useless. Here trouble looked like the survey team's own fault. In some way these two had ignored the safety rules and gotten themselves chopped. One thing was for sure -- Javeh couldn't leave all the gear there. It could last for centuries and would  upset the locals. He said, "Range about a bit. Show me across the river." At first there was nothing. Then the operator picked up movement among the trees and zoomed down for a close up. He found a busy group. Twenty or more lightly furred, advanced hominids -- men, women and children on a corporate chore -- were building a large frame structure. Two were taller, whiter, more erect. Javeh said, "Hold it there. Get closer." "That's as far as I can go. Commander." "It's enough. By God, they've gone native. Building a rustic bower. I'd never have believed it possible. That settles it. Give me a voice beam to that area and call the gunner." The duty gunner in his pod above the command dome had seen the action on his duplicate screen and knew what to expect. Javeh said, "Stand by. Destroy every item at the campsite as soon as I've finished." On his outside circuit he addressed the working party in a voice that boomed from the tree tops and stopped the action. There was a scurry for cover. Only two remained, hand in hand looking at the empty sky. "Atan and Ava this is Javeh. You have put yourselves outside Jhe law. I ought to kill you, but I should have to destroy innocent people near you. As it is you will have to make what you can of your choice. It is likely to be brutish and short. If you have any thought for the future you will see that you leave no children. Goodbye." A zigzag of eye-aching light played on the campsite and the crown of the low hill seemed to burn without fire. For a brief hypnotic spell nothing changed. Then every item folded silently in on itself and there was only fine ash spiraling in the gently moving air and water boiling at the river's edge. A VA was crying silently, tears running unheeded down her cheeks and going into free fall. Mainly it was for Atan. He had worked like a dog on the mission and all his careful records were turned to dust. Partly it was for a situation where he and she could be written off without appeal by a snap decision. Partly also it was because they were so near success. Atan had reckoned that the best chance was to build a tower on the river side of the screen, so that he could drop over into two meters of water to break his fall. Making friendly contact with the family clan had been tricky enough, but he had done it, working against time. Another twentyfour hours and they would have been home and dry. Now they were on their own and it was her fault. Which reminded her that she had never gotten around to telling him what she had done. She said,"Atan. It's all my fault. Don't blame yourself. Nobody could have done a better job than you did. What's happened is unfair to you, not to nie. I deserve it." She was marshaling the story line to tell him from the beginning, but he turned her towards him, hands on her shoulders, bent his arms until she had to move her feet and close up. "Don't torment yourself, Ava. Relax. What do we have? So much time either here or on Bromius. What does it matter when you get right down to it? We have ourselves and that's all there is. Not many people get to start over. It's a rebirth. Naked we come into the world. Believe me, I have everything I want right here. Whatever you did, I don't want to know. You did me a favor. If you feel about me the way I feel about you we don't have a problem -- we have the ingredients for a new golden age. Curious hominids were edging cautiously back out of the bush, their attention divided between the gray-capped empty knoll and the couple by the frame tower. Ava had linked her fingers behind his head. She said, "Atan." It was an amen, a benediction, an affirmation, a prophesy that the wilderness could be made to flower like any lotus.  IF (continued from page # have little in common, except, I guess, artistic creativeness. Nothing to compare to the unifying basis for the life arts. Life arts could be a subdivision of fine arts. The definition of art (or life art) is then plain: Art equals direct and indirect Dramatic Illusion, or any combination of these. (See IF, Oct. #, p. #). I also now have derived the definition for ars poetica from the previous analysis of "bad fiction' ( God forgive you!). Poem: A verbally symmetrical, audio-metrical Indirect Dramatic Illusion. That is to say: it is a literary work that accentuates verbal symmetry (strictly to loosely metrically proportioned) to a degree inconsistent with the natural dramatic requirements of the story or account, thereby attempting to inject or create esthetically pleasing sound patterns to enhance the value of the work or performance. And it can be pleasing to the senses and intellect. Henry Bitman Azusa, Cal. Fiction, which has been my sole source of livelihood for thirty-five years, has a hard and graspable reality of its own. Good fiction is art and simulates nothing -- it simply is its own valid self. Bad fiction may pretend to simulate other things -- and is a lie. Let fiction create illusions for you if you enjoy them, but I think you will enhance your appreciation if you can bring yourself also to view it on its own merits. Dear If: Last year I appealed to readers of a number of magazines, pro and fan, for help in locating, for have written or called to inform us that the story To Kill A Venusian, which appeqred in the September-October issue of IF, is in fact a plagiarism. We have confirmed that the original was published by the title being Nine-finger Jack. The author was the late Anthony Boucher. IF purchqied the story in good faith from one Irwin Ross of been turned over to Company Counsel for appropriate action. biographical purposes, unpublished letters by H. P. Lovecraft. Thanks in part to these readers' generous assistance,  am now #V pp of photocopies and notes on additional letters). I am still, however, trying to run down unpublished letters by Robert E. Howard (other than those in possession of my colleague Glenn Lord) and Clark Ashton Smith. Any information as to the whereabouts of such letters will be much appreciated. Kaor, L. Sprague de Camp # Hothorpe Lane Villanova, Pa. # Dear Sir: I have two strong complaints regarding the A ugust issue o I f: ( I ) you say in Hue and Cry that Bode bindery mishap, a small numdated September-October #I or November-December I #I , were placed on sale with pages missing or repeated. If you received one of these defective copies, mail us the cover plus your name and address, and we will send you a proper replacement gratis. has not been appearing in Galaxy because readers did not like his comic strip; does that mean he shouldn't illustrate covers and stories as he did so well previously? (#) Please stop cluttering Galaxy and IF with fantasy by people like Davidson. How can a science-fiction magazine publish a story with a name like Arnten of Ultima Thule? Worlds of Fantasy was created to take care of this kind of complaint. So what happened? Jonathan Raz Berkeley, Cal. The comment to which you refer Hue and Cry, August '#) read: "... reader reaction did not encourage us to continue featuring a cartoon strip." It was intended to convey precisely what it said, no more, no less. Worlds of Fantasy did not come into being to take care of complaints but to publish fantasy. In the recent poll conducted in Galaxy a substantial majority of readers expressed a liking for occasional fantasy in their sf fare. My personal feeling is that it should be extremely occasional and should have merits beyond its category -- express some validities found in the world of realities. The phrasing of your letter suggests I ought to have changed Avram Davidson's title for the story. I don't agree. heGbiidiCa rUyr-::: by F. Marion Crawford # by James Branch Cabell #i # # # Merry Christmas from Ballantine! D #I Fifth Avenue, New York, N . Y. # Ape you slpesi)y s victim of future shocK? The acceleration started with Hiroshima. Without warning, we switched to mechanized lives, disposable goods, impermanent allegiances. We entered the plug-in, throw-away, rent-a-thing, forget-a-person age. We began using up products, ideas, people at a dizzying rate. Some people thrive on the pace. Others find it terrifying. Some simply refuse to recognize it, abruptly colliding with the future and suffering an adaptive breakdown. Alvin Toffler calls it "future shock." What's the preventative? Start with the Science Fiction Book Club. Science Fiction predicts future change long before it becomes with trial membership reality: the Atomic Bomb, the UN, computers, vision phones, organ transplants, moon landings, test tube babies... you name it. Eventually Science "Fiction" comes true! It leaps to life from the pages of some of the most provocative, stimulating, imaginative literature you can find. If you'd like to be prepared to meet tomorrow, we invite you to share the excitement with us today. Choose any # books for just #, plus shipping and handling. Best of all, you can make one of them Future Shock, "the best single rendering of what the future may hold." Psychology Today. It's easy to join. The coupon tells how. Science Fiction Book Club #-S#A  Please accept my application for membership In i the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the # I books whose numbers I have written in the boxes I below. Bill me Just # (to help cover shippinR) for ! all #. About every # weeks, send me the club's  bulletin, Thlnfs to Come, describing the # coming . Selections and a variety of Alternate choices. If I I wish to receive both Selections, I need do nothing; i they will be shipped to me automatically. When ever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an I Alternate, or no book at all, I will notify you by . the date specified by returning the convenient I form always provided. I I need take only # Selections or Alternates during  the coming year, and may resign any time there after. Most books are only #, plus a modest  charge for shipping and handling. Occasionally, I extra-value Selections are slightly higher. j return the entire introductory package within #  days. Membership will be canceled. I owe nothing.  If under #, parent must sign above. I Office use only #. Futnrc Shock by Alvin Toffler. National Best Seller. "Essential reading for those... committed to controlling their destinies." Psychology Today. Pub. ed. # #. Childhood's End by Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth. "Wildly fantastic! Atlantic. Pub. ed. # #. A Treasary of Great Science Fiction, ed . by Anthony Boucher. # Volume set. # pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # #. Drlftglass by Samuel R. Delaney. # short stories, including # Nebula winners, probe remote corners of the galaxy. #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners." chosen by Sci-Pi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. # #. A Time of Changes by Robert Sllverberg. of strange planet where human beings must despise themselves and "I" and "Me" become filthy obscenities. #. Slaughterhouse-Five by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. The incredible odyssey of Billy Pilgrim lost in the hideous moments of existence. An extraordinary tale of time travel. Pub. ed. # #. Beyond the Beyond by Poul Anderson. Six novellas by Hugo Award winner. About scientists, pirates, loners. #. The Robot Novels by Isaac Asimov. Two of his greatest creations, the emotionally charged "The Caves of Steel" and "The Naked Sun." Pub. ed. # #. Sturgeon Is AUve and Well... #I Nebula Award novelette "Slow Sculpture" plus # other gripping stories by Theodore Sturgeon. Pub. ed. # #. Stand on Zanxibar by John Brunner. Stunning novel, # Hugo winner, of life in U.S. # years from now. # pages. Pub. ed. # #. I Sing The Body Electric! by Ray Bradbury. # major pieces -- Bradbury's first collection in five years. Pub. ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in si:e, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly'different in Canad. Printed in U.S.A.  is better than ever in his first novel in # years -- a masterpiece! (Part Two) Just Published Lester del Key's first new adult Science Fiction novel in ten years! O nly the author of Nerves could have conceived this gripping story of a down-to-earth engineer who regards all psychic phenomena as claptrap -- until he discovers, to his horror, that he himself is a born telepath and clairvoyant. # Madison Avenue, New York, N. Y. # Ask your bookseller today for -- the Science Fiction event of the year. # Science and Public Affairs such areas as: with respect to: cinating articles by today's foremost scientists, in language any intelligent reader can understand! The Bulletin Clock Symbolizing the threat of nuclear doomsday, it stands now at ten minutes to midnight! (A Journal of Science and Public Affairs) Enclosed please find remittance for my subscription as checked below.  I year, #  # years, #  # years, # (The regular single-copy price of the Bulletin is I .#) The above subscription rates apply to the United States and Canada. For Pan-America, add #c per year. For other foreign, add I .# per year. March-April # Vol. #, No. # Issue I # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Lester del Rey. Feature Editor JudyLynn Benjamin , Managing Editor Jack Gaughan, Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director L. C. Murphy , Subscription Director Harry Harrison # Isaac Asimov # Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President . Main Offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #c per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. #-pc Screwdriver  Tool Set ith Interchangeable Blades complete with Pouch I #-pc  Hex Key Set i its own Pooch #-pe Cold Chisel Set I #-pc Chrome Socket Set -- tw  Driven (tmm "df  WiQ-pc Chron Sr? #-pc. Chrome I Socket Set -- Drive## # #  t #-pc Nut Driv Set with its # wn Pooch #-pc Ignition Wrench Set. w on this Mechanics All-Purpose PI' The Complete Workshop That Yoo've Always Wanted! Makes Any Job Go Quicker... Easier Reversible Ratchet, "l-Handle" and Adapter.  #-pc. Vk" drive Socket Wrench Se, including # Sockets, "L-Handle" and Adapter.  #-pc. 'A" drive Socket Wrench Set, including # Sockets and "L-Handle".  Handy Metal Tray for three Socket Sets.  #-pc. Screw Driver Set  #-pc. Nut Driver Set.  #-pc. Open End Wrench Set.  #-pc. Cold Chisel Set.  #-pc. Ignition Wrench Set.  #-pc. Hex Key Set.  #-pc. Drill Bit Set with fined Case. Metal Tote Box. and Readers write -- and wrong I Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Michael Glyer states in the October, #I , issue of If, in so many words, that science fiction is not art. This is a point I have often discussed with friends, who have mostly taken the same attitude. My answer to this is that art in writing shows itself rarely anyway (let's assume for the moment that we know what we mean by art) and that if you single out any special category of writing, e.g. sf or detective stories or westerns, the proportion that we recognize as artistic will always be rather small -- simply because the proportion of art in all writing is small. I believe that sf has produced quite a bit of art -- such stuff as Miller s "Canticle for Leibowitz" and the best of Sturgeons work come immediately to my mind -- and it's not realistic to expect all sf to measure up to these standards. This argument applies to all artistic endeavours, incidentally -- for the same reasons it is not fair to declare, say, modern music, jazz, pop-music, modern painting, etc etc, as non-art. While T m at it, some comments on If and Galaxy. I find your serials uniformly boring lately -- the authors all seem to run out of steam shortly after ( mostly ) promising beginnings. Examples: I Will Fear No Evil, the Dune series and that Laumer story about a year back, whose name I've forgotten. I think Laumer should drop Retief -- he's played out and will never again rise to such heights as in the beautiful "Retiefs War." While I'm an enthusiastic Australian ( with reservations in the field of politics ), I consider Chandler s stories also uniformly boring -- a pity. Otherwise, I'm happy with your editing. Dieter Britz Germany Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Science fiction people have always prided themselves in their belief that their genre alone is concerned with future extrapolation and possibilities. Yet who has written the most significant and important book of many, many years concerning the future? Future Shock is by Alvin Toffler, a sociologist -- and blessed be his insight. Why weren't all the probabilities ( Please turn to page #) That is the prediction of the celebrated writer Colin Wilson, who bases his revolutionary ideas on an intensive study of all aspects of spiritualism and its important The Occult: A History, he discusses them all -- the lives and mysterious powers of Nostradamus, Dr. John Dee, Cagliostro Anton Mesmer, Aleister Crowley, Gurdjieff, Ouspensky, Rasputin, and Edgar Cayce, as well as the occult theories and experiences of Yeats, Wordsworth, Freud, Jung, T. S. Eliot, George Bernard Shaw, Bertrand Russell, Robert Graves, and Bishop Pike. Also covered are telepathy; prophecy; the  Ching; the Tarot pack; the Kaballah; astrology; mysticism; satanism; witchcraft; ghosts, vampires, and werewolves; and reincarnation. The Occult is a fascinating work -- an exciting journey into the strangest and most powerful regions of man's mind and soul. Magic science future! Illustrated; #, now at your bookstore, or mail this coupon with remittance for #-day examination. (Please include applicable sales tax.) To your bookstore, or Random House Mail Service, Inc., Dept.I# P.O. Box #, Lynbrook, N. Y. # I enclose check or money order for # (plus applicable sales tax). I may, if I wish, return the book within # days for full refund. Name Address State (Galaxy, March, #) Plutonium#, an "impossible" isotope, is nevertheless discovered on Earth. It develops that alien intelligence in a parallel Universe is exchanging the substance for our ordinary tungsten. Here the unstable P-# breaks down to tungsten while there the tungsten breaks down to P-#. This releases atomic particles that soon furnish limitless pollution-free energy, at no cost, to both Universes -- contributing immensely to human welfare and presumably that of the aliens. But one Earth scientist warns that continually "pumping" electrons out of our Universe into the "paraUniverse" will alter both with ultimately disastrous consequences. He finds his career blasted by a scientific establishment committed to material posterity... (Part II of The Gods Themselves, is set entirely in the alternate of paraUniverse devoid of humankind. Belonging in The Magazine of Alternatives on several counts, it can be read and enjoyed for its own sake. For fullest appreciation of this wise and significant novel, of course, you may wish to take advantage of the offer on page #I and read the entire work upon its first publication anywhere.) la D UA did not have much trouble leaving the others. She .always expected trouble, but somehow it never came. Never real trouble. But then, why should it? Odeen objected in his lofty way. "Stay put," he would say. "You know you annoy Tritt." He never spoke of his own annoyance -- Rationals did not become annoyed over trifles. Still, Odeen hovered over Tritt almost as persistently as Tritt hovered over the children. But Odeen always let Dua have her way if she were persistent enough. He would even intercede in her favor wijth Tritt. , Sometimes he went so far as to admit he was proud of her ability, of her independence. He was not a bad Left-ling, she thought with absent affection. Tritt was harder to handle and had a sour way of looking at her when she was -- well, when she was as she wished to be. But Rightlings were like that. He was a Right-ling to her, but a Parental to the children' and the latter took precedence always. Which was good because she could always count on one child or another taking him away when things became uncomfortable. Still, Dua did not mind Tritt very much. Except for melting, she tended to, ignore him. Odeen was something else. He had been exciting at first -- his presence alone had made her outlines shimmer and fade. And the fact that he was a Rational made him somehow all the more exciting. She didn't understand her reaction to what he was -- it was part of her queerness. She had grown used to her queerness -- almost. Dua sighed. As a child, when she still had thought of herself as an individual -- a single being and not a part of a triad -- she had been much more' aware of the strangeness. As little a thing as the surface at evening. She had loved the surface at evening. The other Emotionals had called it cold and gloomy and had uivered and coalesced when she escribed it for them. They were ready enough to emerge in the warmth of midday and stretch and feed -- but they were exactly what made the midday dull. Dua did not like to be around the twitter ing lot of them. She had to eat, of course, but she liked it much better in the evening when there was very little food but everything was a dijrn deep red and she was alone. Of course, she had described it as colder and more wistful than it was when she had talked to the others. She had liked to watch them arow hard-edged as they imagined the chill -- or as hard-edged as young Emotionals could. And after a while they had begun to whisper about her and laugh at her -- and leave her alone. -- The small Sun was at the horizon now, with the secret ruddiness that she alone was there to see. She spread herself out laterally and thickened dorso-ventrally, absorbing the traces of thin warmth. She munched at it idly, savoring the slightly sour, substanceless taste of the long wavelengths. (She had never met another Emotional who would admit to liking it. But she could never explain that she associated it with freedom -- freedom from the others, a time she could spend alone.). ft IF Even now the loneliness, the chill and the deep, deep red, brought back those old days before the triad -- and even more, quite sharply, the memory of her own Parental who would come lumbering after her, forever fearful that she would hurt herself. He had been carefully devoted to her, as Parentals always were to their Little-mids. His devotion had annoyed her and she had dreamed of the day when he would leave her -- Parentals always did eventually. But how she had missed him when one day he finally left. v He had come to tell her just as carefully as he could, despite the difficulty Parentals had in putting, their feelings into words. She had run from him that day -- not in malice and not because she suspected what he had to tell her -- only out of joy. She had managed to find a special place at midday and had gorged herself in unexpected isolation and had been filled with a queer, itching sensation that demanded motion and activity. She had slithered over the rocks and had let her edges overlap theirs. She had known it was a grossly improper action for anyone but a baby and yet it had been something at once exciting and soothing. And her Parental had caught her at last and had stood before her, silent for a long time, making his eyes small and dense as though to stop every bit of light reflected from her -- to see as much as he could of her and for as long as possible. So vividly did that earlier time return that suddenly she could see it as if it were now... xV. back at her Parental with the confused thought that he had seen her rub through the rocks and was ashamed of her. But she caught no shame aupa and finally asked subduedly, "What is it. Daddy?" "Why, Dua, it's the time. I've been expecting it. Surely yoir have." "What time?" Now that the moment was here, Dua stubbornly would not let herself know. If she refused to know, there would be nothing to know. (She never quite got out ofthat habit. Odeen said all Emotionals were like (hat, speaking in the lofty voice he used sometimes when he was particularly overcome with the importance of being a Rational.) Her Parental said, "I must pass on. I will not be with you any more." Then he just stood and looked at her and she could say nothing. He said, "You will tell the others." "Why?" Dua turned away rebelliously, her outlines vague and growing vaguer -- she tried to dissipate. She wanted to dissipate altogether and of course she couldn't. After a while the effort hurt and cramped and she hardened again. Her Parental didn't even bother to scold her and tell her that it would be shameful if anyone saw her stretched out so. She said, "They won't care -- " and immediately felt sorrowful that her Parental would be hurt by the words. He still called her brothers "Little-left" and "Little-right," but Little-left was all involved with his studies and Little-right kept talking about forming a triad. Dua was the only one of the three who stiH felt... Well, she was the youngest. Emotionals always were apd with them everything was different. Her Parental merely said, "You will tell them anyway." And he and she again stood looking at each other. She didn't want to tell her brothers. They weren't close any more. It had been different when they were all little. They could hardly tell themselves apart in those days -- Left-brother from Right-brother from Mid-sister. They were all wispy and would tangle with each other and roll through each other and hide in the walls. No one ever minded their games when they were little -- none of the grownups. But then the brothers grew thick and sober and drew away. And when she complained to her Parental he would only say gently, "You are too old to thin, Dua' She tried not to listen, but Leftbrother kept drawing away and would say, "Don't snuggle -- I have no time for you." And Rightbrother began to stay quite hard all the time and became glum and silent. She did not understand it yet and Daddy had not been able to make it clear. He would say every once in a while as though giving her a lesson he had once learned, "Lefts are Rationals, Dua. Rights are Parentals. They grow up their own way." She didn't like their way. They were no longer children and she still was, so she flocked with the other Emotionals. They all had the same complaints about their brothers. They all talked of coming triads. They all spread in the Sun and fed. They all grew more and more the same and every day the same things were said. And she began to detest them and went off by herself whenever she could, so that they took to calling her "Left-Em." (It had been a long time now since she had heard that call, but she never thought of the phrase without remembering perfectly the thin ragged voices that had sent it after her with a kind of half-wit persistence because the owners of the voices knew it hurt.) But her Parental had retained his interest in her even when it jnust have seemed to him that everyone else laughed at her. He had tried in his clumsy way to shield her from the others. He had followed her to the surface sometimes -- even though he hated it himself -- in order to make sure she was safe. She had come upon him once when he was talking to a Hard One. It was hard for a Parental to talk to a Hard One -- even though she was quite young, she knew that much. Hard Ones talked only to Rationals. She had been quite frightened and had wisped away, but not before she had heard her Parental say, "I take good care of her, Hard-Sir." Could the Hard One have inIF quired about her? About her queerness, perhaps? But her Parental had not been apologetic. Even to the Hard One he had spoken of his concern for her. Dua had felt an obscure pride. But now he was leaving and suddenly all the independence that Dua had been looking forward to lost its fine shape and hardened into the pointed crag of loneliness. She asked, "But why must you pass on?" "I must, little Mid-dear." He must. She knew that. Everyone, sooner or later, must. The day would come when she would have to sigh and say,  must. "But what makes you know when you have to pass on? If you can choose your time why don't you choose a different time and stay longer?" He said, "Your Left-father has decided. TTie triad must do as he says." "Why must you do as he says?" She hardly ever saw her Left-father or her Mid-mother. They did not count any more. Only her Rightfather, her Parental, her daddy, who stood there squat and flatsurfaced. He was not all smoothly curved like a Rational or shuddery uneven like an Emotional and she could always tell what he was going to say. Almost always. She was sure he would say,  cant Explain to a little Emotional. He said it. Dua said in a burst of woe, "I'll miss you, I know you think I pay you no attention and that I don't like you because you always tell me not to do things. But I would rather not like you for telling me not to do things than not have you around to tell me not to do things." And Daddy just stood there. There was no way he could handle an outburst like that except to come closer and pinch out a hand. That action cost him a visible effort, but he held his hand out trembling and its outlines were ever so slightly soft Dua said, "Oh, Daddy -- " and let her own hand flow about his so that it looked misfy and shimmery through her substance, but she was careful not to touch itfor that would have-embarrassed him so. Then he withdrew his hand and left hers enclosing nothing. He said, "Remember the Hard Ones, Dua. They will help you. I -- I will go now." He went and she never saw him again. Now she sat remembering in the Sunset, rebelliously aware that pretty soon Tritt would grow petulant over her absence and nag Odeen. And then Odeen might lecture her on her duties. She didn't care. lb that Dua was off on the surface. Without really thinking about it he could judge her direction and even something of her distance. If he had stopped to think of it he might have felt displeasure, for this inter-awareness sense had been steadily deadening for a long time now ahd, without really being certain why, he had a sense of gathering fulfillment about it. It was the way things were supposed to be -- the sign of the continuing development of the body with age. Tritt v s inter-awareness sense did not decrease, but it shifted more and more toward the children. That was clearly the line of useful development. But the role of the Parental was a simple one, in a manner of speaking, however important. The Rational was far more complex and Odeen took a bleak satisfaction in that thought. ' Of course, Dua was the real puzzle. She was so unlike all the other Emotionals. Her oddness perplexed aifd frustrated Tritt and reduced him to even more pronounced inarticulateness. Dua baffled" and frustrated Odeen at times, too, but he was also aware of her infinite capacity to induce satisfaction with life and it did not seem likely that one quality was independent of the other. The occasional exasperation she caused was a small price to pay for intense happiness. And maybe Dua's strange way of life was part of what ought to. be, too. The Hard Ones seemed interested in her and ordinarily they paid attention only to Rationals. He felt pride in that -- so much the better for the triad that even the Emotional was worth attention. Odeen was pleased. Things were as they were supposed to be. That was bedrock and what he wanted most to feci -- even to the end. Some day he would even know when it was time to pass on and he would want to. The Hard Ones assured him of that, as they assured all Rationals, but they also told him that it was his own inner consciousness that would mark the time unmistakably and without any advice from outside. "When you tell yourself," Losten had told him in the clear, careful way in which a Hard One always talked to a Soft One, as though the Hard One were laboring to make himself understood, "that you know why you must pass on -- then you will pass on, and your triad will pass on with you." And Odeen had said, "I cannot say I wish to pass on now, HardSir. There is so much to learn." "Of course. Left-dear. You feel this because you are not yet ready." Odeen thought, How can  ever feel ready when I will never feel there isn't much to learn . But he did not say so. He was quite certain the time would come ,and he would then understand. He looked down at himself, almost forgetting and thrusting out an eye to do so -- always some childish impulses remained in the most adult of the most Rational. He did not have to use an eye, of course. He could sense quite well with his eye solidly in place, and he found himself satisfactorily solid -- in nice, sharp outline, smooth, and curved into gracefully conjoined ovoids. His body lacked the strangely attractive shimmer of Dua's and the comforting stockiness of Tritt's. He loved them both, but he would not change his own body for either's. Or, of course, his mind. IF He would never say so, for he would not want to hurt their feelings, but he never ceased being thankful that he didnot have Tritt's limited understanding or (even more) Dita's erratic one. He supposed they did not mind -- for they knew nothing else. Dua again and deliberately dulled the sense. At the moment he felt no need for her. It was not that he wanted her less, merely that he had increasing drives elsewhere. It was part of the growing maturity of a Rational to find more and more satisfaction in the exercise of a mind that could be exerted to capacity only alone -- and with the Hard Ones. He grew constantly more accustomed to the Hard Ones,.constantly more attached to them. He felt that this, too, was right and proper, for he was a Rational, and in a way the Hard Ones were superRational. (He had once said that to Losten, the friendliest of the Hard Ones aad, it seemed to Odeen in some vague way, the youngest. Losten had radiated amusement but had said nothing. He had not denied it, however.) Odeen's earliest memories were filled with Hard Ones. His Parental more and more concentrated his attention on the last child, the baby-Emotional. That was only natural. (Tritt would do the same when the last child came, if it ever did. Odeen had picked up that last qualification from Tritt, who used it constantly as a reproach to Dua.) But with his Parental busy so ,much of the time Odeen had begun his education early. He was losing his baby ways and he had learned a great deal even before he met Tritt. That meeting, though, was surely something he would never forget. It might as well have been yesterday as more than half a lifetime ago. He had seen Parentals of his own generation, of course -- young ones who, long before they incubated the children that made true Parentals of them, showed few signs of the stolidity to come. As a child he had played with his own right-brother and was scarcely aware of any intellectual difference between them (though, looking back on those days, he recognized that the difference was there, even then.) He knew also vaguely the role of a Parental in a triad. Even as a child he had heard whispered tales of melting. When Tritt first appeared -- when Odeen saw him first -- everything changed. For, the first time in his life Odeen felt an inner warmth and began to think that there was something he wanted that was utterly divorced from thought. Even now he could remember the sense of embarrassment that had accompanied this discovery. Tritt was not embarrassed, of course. Parentals were never embarrassed about the activities of the triad, and Emotionals were almost ' never embarrassed. Only Rationals had that problem. "Too much thinking," a Hard One had said when Odeen had discussed the problem with him and that left Odeen dissatisfied. In what way would thinking be "too much?" Tritt was young when they first met. He was still so childish as to be uncertain in his blockishness so that his reaction to the meeting wasEmbarrassingly clear. He grew almost translucent along his edges. Odeen said hesitantly, "I haven't seen you before, have I, Rightfellow?" Tritt said, "I have never been here. I have been brought here-" They both knew exactly vhat had happened to them. The meeting had been arranged because someone (some Parental, Odeen had thought at the time, but later he .-knew it was some Hard One) thought they would suit each other and the thought was correct. There was no intellectual rapport between the two. How could there be when Odeen wanted to learn with an intensity that superseded anything but the existence of the triad itself and Tritt lacked the very concept of learning? What Tritt had to know he already knew beyond either learning or unlearning. Odeen, out of the excitement of finding out about the world and its Sun -- about the history and mechanism of life, about all the abouts in the Universe -- sometimes (in those early days together) found over to Tritt. Tritt listened placidly, clearly understanding nothing, but content to be listening while Odeen, transmitting nothing, was as dearly content to be lecturing. first move, driven by his special . needs. Odeen was chattering about what he had learned that day after the brief midday meal. (Their thicker substance absorbed food so rapidly that they were satisfied with a simple walk in the Sun, while Emotionals basked for hours at a time, curling and thinning as though deliberately to lengthen the task.) Odeen, who always ignored the Emotionals, was quite happy to be talking. Tritt, who stared wordlessly at them day after day, was now visibly restless. Abruptly he came close to Odeen, formed an appendage so hastily as to clash most disagreeably with Odeen's form-sense. He placed the outcropping upon a portion of Odeen's upper ovoid where a slight shimmer was allowing for a welcome draft of warm air as dessert. Tritt's appendage thinned with a visible effort and sank into the superficies of Odeen's skin before the latter darted away, horribly embarrassed. He had done such things as a baby, of course, but never since his adolescence. "Don't do that, Tritt," he said sharply. Tritt's appendage remained out, groping a little. "I want to." Odeen held himself as compactly as he could, striving to harden the surface to bar entry. "I don't want to." "Why not?" asked Tritt urgently. "There's nothing wrong." Odeen said the first thing that came into his mind. "It hurt." (It didn't really. Not physically. But IF the Hard Ones always avoided the touch of the Soft Ones. A careless interpenetration did hurt Hard Ones, but they were constructed differently from Soft Ones -- completely differently.) Tritt was not fooled. His instinct could not possibly mislead him in this respect. He said, "It didn't hurt." "Well, it isn't right this way. We need an Emotional." And Tritt could only say stubbornly, "I want to, anyway." It was bound to continue happening and Odeen was bound to give in. It always came about so -- even with the most self-conscious Rational. As the old saying had it -- Everyone either admitted doing it or lied about it. Tritt was at him at each meeting after that -- if not with an appendage, then rim to rim. And finally Odeen, seduced by the pleasure of it, began to help and tried to thin. He was better at that tlian Tritt. Poor Tritt, infinitely more eager, huffed and strained and could achieve only the barest shimmer here and there, patchily and raggedly. Odeen, however, could turn translucent all over his surface and fought down his embarrassment in order to let himself flow against Tritt. There was skin-deep penetration and Odeen could feel the pulsing of Trrtt's hard surface under the skin. There was enjoyment, riddled with guilt. Tritt, as often as not, was tired and vaguely angry when it was over. Odeen said, "Now, Tritt, I've told you we need an Emotional to do this properly. You can't be angry at something that jus is." And Tritt said, "Let's get an Emotional." Let's get an Emotional! Tritt's simple drives never led him to anything but direct action. Odeen was not sure he could explain the complexities of life to the other. "It's not that easy, Right-ling -- " he began gently. Tritt said abruptly. "The Hard Ones can get us one. You're friendly with them. Ask them." Odeen was horrified. "I can't ask. The time," he continued, unconsciously falling into his lecturing voice, "has not yet come -- or I would certainly know it. Until -- " Tritt was not listening. He said, "I'll ask." "No," said Odeen, horrified. "You stay out of it. I tell you it's not time. I have an education to worry about. It's very easy to be a Parental and not to have to know anything but -- " He was sorry the instant he had spoken, and it was a lie anyway. He just didn't want to do anything at all that might offend the Hard Ones and impede his useful relationship with them. Tritt, however, showed no signs of minding, and Odeen began to think that the other saw no point or merit in knowing anything he did not already know and would not consider the statement of the fact an insult. The problenrf of the Emotional kept coming up, though. Occasionally they tried interpenetration. In fact, the impulse grew stronger with time. It was never truly satisfying though it had its pleasure and each time Tritt would demand an Emotional. Each time Odeen threw himself deeper into his studies, almost as a defense against the problem. Yet at times he was tempted to speak to Losten ahout the problem. # Odeen knew best, the one who took the greatest personal interest in him. There was a deadly sameness about the Hard Ones, because they did not change. They never changed -- their form w#s fixed. Where their eyes were they always were -- and always in the same place for all of 'them. Their skin was not exactly hard but it was always opaque. It never shimmered, was never vague, never penetrable by another skin of its own type. Hard Ones were not larger in size, particularly, than the Soft Ones, but they were heavier. Their substance was much denser and they had to be careful about the yielding tissues of the Soft Ones. Once when he had been little -- really little -- and his body had flowed almost as freely as his sister's, Odeen had been I approached by a Hard One. He had never known which one it was, but he learned in later life that all of them were curious about babyRationals. Odeen had reached up for the Hard One out of nothing but curfosity. The Hard One had sprung backward, and later Odeen's Parental had scolded him for offering to touch a Hard One. The scolding had been harsh enough for Odeen never to forget. When he was older he learned that the close-packed atoms of the Hard One's tissues felt pain on the forcible penetration of others. Odeen wondered if the Soft One felt pain, too. Another young Rational once told him that he had stumbled against a Hard One and the Hard One had doubled up but that he himself had felt nothing -- but Odeen Wasn't sure this was not just a melodramatic boast. There were other things he was not supposed to do. He liked rubbing against the walls Qf the cavern. There was a pleasant, warm feeling when he allowed himself to penetrate rock. Babies always did it, but it became harder to do as he grew older. Still, he could do it skin-deep and he liked the feeling, but his Parental found him doing it and scolded him. Odeen objected that his sister did it all the time -- he had seen her. "That's different," said the Parental. "She's an Emotional." At another time when Odeen was absorbing a recording -- he was older then -- he had idly formed a couple of projections and made the tips so thin that he could pass one through the other. He began to do it regularly when he listened. There was a pleasant tickling sensation that made it easier to listen and made him nicely sleepy afterward. His Parental caught him at that, too, and what he had said still made Odeen uncomfortable. No one really told him about melting in those days. They fed him knowledge and educated him about everything except about what IF the triad was. Tritt had never been told either, but he was a Parental and knew without being told. Of course, when Dua came at last all was clear, even though she seemed to know less than Odeen. But she did not come to them because of anything Odeen did. It was Tritt who broached the matter -- Tritt, who ordinarily feared the Hard Ones and avoided them mutely -- Tritt, who lacked Odeen's self-assurance in all but this respect -- Tritt, who on this one subject was driven -- Tritt -- Tritt -- Tritt -- Odeen sighed. Tritt was invading his thoughts because Tritt was coming. He could feel him, harsh, demanding, always demanding. Odeen had so little time to himself these days, just when he felt that he needed to think more than ever. "Yes, Tritt," he said. lc blockiness. He did not think it ugly. He did not think about it at all. If he had given it a thought, he would have considered it beautiful. His body was designed for a purpose and designed well. He asked, "Odeen, where is Dua?" "Outside somewhere," mumbled Odeen, almost as though he didn't care. It annoyed Tritt to have the triad made so little of. Dua was so difficult and Odeen didn't care. "Why do you let her go?" "How can I stop her, Tritt? And what harm if she goes outside?" "You know the harm. We have two babies. We need a third. It is so hard to make a little-mid these days. Dua must be properly fed for it to be made. Now she is wandering about at Sunset again. How can she feed fully at Sunset?" "She's just not a great feeder." "And we just don't have a littlemid. Odeen." Tritt's voice was caressing. "How can I love you properly without Dua?" "Now, then," mumbled Odeen and Tritt felt himself once more puzzled by the other's clear embarrassment at the simplest statement of fact. Tritt said, "Remember, I was the one who first got Dua." Did Odeen remember that? Did Odeen ever think of the triad and what  it meant? Sometimes Tritt felt so frustrated he could -- he could -- Actually, he did not know what he could do, but he knew he felt frustrated. As in those old days when he wanted an Emotional and Odeen would do nothing. Tritt knew he didn't have the trick of talkingin big, elaborate sentences. But if Parentals didn't talk, they thought. They thought about important things. Odeen always talked about atoms and energy. Who cared about atoms and energy? Tritt thought about the triad and the babies. Odeen had once told him that the numbers of Soft Ones were gradually growing fewer. Didn't he care? Didn't the Hard Ones care? Did anyone care but the Parentals? Only two forms of life on all the world, the Soft Ones and the Hard Ones. And food shining down on them. Odeen had once told him the Sun was cooling off. There was less food, he said, so there were fewer people. Tritt didn't believe it. The Sun felt no cooler than it had when he was a baby. People were just not worrying about the triads any more. Too many absorbed Rationals -- too many silly Emotionals. What the Soft Ones must do was concentrate on the important things of life. Tritt did. He tended to the business of the triad. The baby-left came, then the baby-right. They were growing and flourishing. They had to have a baby-mid though. That was the hardest to get started and without a baby-mid there would be no new triad. What made Dua as she was? She had always been difficult, but she was growing worse. Tritt felt an obscure anger against Odeen. Odeen always talked with all those hard words. And Dua listened. Odeen would talk to Dua endlessly till they were almost two Rationals. That was bad for the triad. Odeen should know better. It was always Tritt who had to care. It was always Tritt who had to do what had to be done. Odeen was the friend of the Hard Ones and yet he said nothing. They had needed an Emotional and Odeen had done nothing. He talked to the Hard Ones about energy and not of the needs of the triad. It had been Tritt, who had turned the scale. Tritt remembered that proudly. He had seen Odeen talking to a Hard One, and he had approached. Without a shake in his voice, he had interrupted and said, "We need an Emotional." The Hard One had turned to look at him. Tritt had never been so close to aHard One. He was all of a piece. Every part of him had to turn when one part did. He had some projections that could move by themselves, but they never changed in shape. They never flowed and they were irregular and unlovely. Hard Ones did not like to be touched. The Hard One asked, "Is this so, Odeen?" He did not speak to Tritt. Odeen flattened. He flattened close to the ground, became more flattened than Tritt had ever seen him. Odeen said, "My Right-ling is overzealous. My Right-ling is -- is -- " He stuttered and puffed and could not speak. Tritt could speak. He said, "We cannot melt without one." Tritt knew that Odeen was embarrassed into speechlessness but he didn't care. It was time. "Well, Left-dear," said the Hard One to Odeen, "do you feel the same way about it?" Hard Ones spoke as the Soft Ones did, but more harshly and with fewer overtones. The Hard Ones were difficult to listen to. Tritt found them so anyway, though Odeen seemed used to them. "Yes," said Odeen finally. The Hard One turned at last to Tritt. "Remind me, Young-right How long have you and Odeen been together?" "Long enough," said Tritt, "to deserve an Emotional.' He kept his shape firmly at angles. He did IF not allow himself to be frightened. The matter was too important. He added: "And my name is Tritt." The Hard One seemed amused. "Yes, the choice was good. You and Odeen go well "together, but it makes the choice of an Emotional difficult. We have almost made up our minds. Or at least I have long since made up my mind, but the others must be convinced. Be patient, Tritt." "I am tired of patience." "I know, but be patient anyway." He was amused again... quite gone Odeen uplifted himself and thinned out angrily. He asked, "How could you do that, Tritt? Do you know who he is?" "A Hard One." "He is Losten. My special teacher. I don't want him angry with me." "Why should he be angry? I was polite." "Well, never mind." Odeen was settling into normal shape. That meant he was not angry any more. (Tritt was relieved, though he tried not to show it.) "It's very embarrassing for my dumb-right to come up and speak out to my Hard One." "Why didn't you speak out, then?" "There's such a thing as the right time." "But never's the right time for you." But then they rubbed surfaces and stopped arguing and Dua came not long after that. Losten brought her. Tritt did not realize -- he did not look at the Hard One. Only at Dua. But Odeen told him afterward that Losten had brought her. "You see?" said Tritt. "I talked to him. That is why he brought her." "No," said Odeen. "It was time. He would have brought her even if neither of us had talked to him." Tritt didn't believe him. He was quite sure that it was entirely because of his actions that Dua was with them. Surely there had never been anyone like Dua in the world. Tritt had seen many Emotionals. They were all attractive. He would have accepted any of them for proper melting. Once he saw Dua he realized that none of the others would have suited. Only Dua. Only Dua. And Dua knew exactly what to do. Exactly. No one had ever shown her how, she told them afterward. No one had ever talked to her about it. Even other Emotionals had not, for she had avoided them. Yet when all three were together; each knew what to do. Dua thinned. She thinned more than Tritt had ever seen anyone thin. She thinned more than Tritt would ever have thought possible. She became a kind of colored smoke that filled the room and dazzled him. He moved without knowing he was moving. He immersed himself in the air that was Dua. There was no sensation of penetration, none at all. Tritt felt no resistance, no friction. There was just a floating inward and a rapid palpitation. He felt himself beginning to thin in sympathy and without the tremendous effort that had always accompanied his could thin without effort into a thick smoke of his own. Thinning became like flowing -- he became an enormous smooth flow. Dimly he could see Odeen approaching from the other side, from Dua's left. And he, too, was thinning. Then, like all the shocks of contact in all the world, he reached Odeen. But it was not a shock at all. Tritt felt without feeling, knew without knowing. He slid into Odeen and Odeeh slid into him. He could not tell whether he was surrounding Odeen or being surrounded by him or both or neither. He knew only -- pleasure. The senses dimmed with the intensityof that pleasure, and at the point where he thought he could stand no more the senses failed altogether. and stared at each other. They had melted for days. Melting always took time. The better it was the longer it took. When the melting was over, all that time seemed as though it had been an instant and they did not remember it. In later life it rarely took longer than that first time. ' Odeen said, "That was wonderful' Tritt only gazed at Dua, who had made it possible. She was coalescing, swirling, moving tremulously. She seemed most affected of the three. "We'll do it again," she said, hurriedly. "But later, later. Let me go now." She ran away. They did not stop her. They were too overcome to stop her. But that was always the way afterward. She was always gone after melting. No matter how successful it was, she would go. Something in her needed to be alone. It bothered Tritt. In point after point she was different from other Emotionals. She should not be. Odeen felt otherwise. He would say on many occasions, "Why don't you leave her alone, Tritt? She's not like the others and that means she's better than the others. Melting wouldn't be as good if she were like the others. Do you want the benefits without paying the price?" Tritt did not understand that clearly. He knew only that she ought to do what ought to be done. He said, "I want her to do what is right." "I know, Tritt, I know. But leave her alone anyway." Odeen himself often scolded Dua for her queer ways but he was al"You lack tact, Tritt," he would say. Tritt didn't know what tact was exactly. And now -- It had been so long since the first melting and still the babyEmotional was not bom. How much longer? It was already much too long. And Dua, if anything, stayed by herself more, and more as time went on. IF Tritt said, "She doesn't eat enough." "When it's time -- " began Odeen. "You always talk about it's being time or it's not being time. You never found it time to get Dua in the first place. Now you never find it time to have a baby-Emotional. Dua should -- " But Odeen turned away. He said, "She's out there, Tritt. If you want to go out and get her, as though you were her Parental instead of her Right-ling, do so. But I say, leave her alone." Tritt backed away. He had a great deal to say, but he didn't know how to say it. #a D UA was aware of the left-right agitation concerning her in a dim and faraway manner and her rebelliousness grew. If one or the other -- or both -- came to get her, the scene would end in a melting and she raged against the thought. Melting was all Tritt knew and, except for the children, all Tritt wanted -- except for the third and last child. Everything was involved with the children and the still missing child. And when Tritt wanted a melting he got it. Tritt dominated the triad when he grew stubborn. He would hold on to some simple idea and never let go, and in the end Odeen and Dua would have to give in. Yet now she wouldn't give in -- she wouldn't! She did not feel disloyal at the thought. She never expected to feel for either Odeen or Tritt the sheer intensity of longing they felt for each other. She could melt alonethey could melt only through her mediation -- so why didn't that make her the more regarded? She felt intense pleasure at the three-way melting, of course -- she would be stupid to .deny it. The pleasure was akin to what she felt when she passed through a rock wall, as she sometimes secretly did. To Tritt and Odeen the pleasure was like nothing else they had ever experienced or could ever experience. No, wait. Odeen had the pleasure of learning, of what he called intellectual development. Dua felt some of that at times, enough to know what it might mean -- and though it was different from melting it might serve as a substitute at least to the point where Odeen could do without -- sometimes. But not so Tritt. For him there was only melting and the children. Only. And when his small mind bent entirely upon that Odeen would give in and then Dua would have to. Once she had rebelled. "But what happens when we melt? It's hours, days sometimes, before we come out of it. What happens in all that time?" Tritt had looked outraged at that. "It's always that way. It's got to be." "I don't like anything that's got to be. I want to know why." Odeen had looked embarrassed. He spent half his life being embarrassed. He said, "Now, Dua, it does have to be. On account of -- children." He seemed to pulse as he spoke the word. "Well, don't pulse," said Dua sharply. "We're grown now and we've melted I don't know how many times and we all know it's so we can have children. You might as well say so. Why does it take so long? That's all." "Because it's a complicated process," said Odeen, still pulsing. "Because it takes energy. Dua, it takes a long time to get a child started and even when we take a long time a child doesn't always get started. And it's getting worse. Not just with us," he added hastily. "Worse?" Tritt asked anxiously, but Odeen would say no more. They had a child eventually, a baby-Rational, a Left-ling, that flitted and thinned so that all three were in raptures and even Odeen would hold it and let it change shape in his hands for as long as Tritt would allow him. For it was Tritt, of course, who had actually incubated it through the long preforming. Tritt who had separated from it when it assumed independent existence and Tritt who cared for it at all times. After that Tritt was often not with them and Dua was oddly pleased. Tritt's obsession annoyed her, but Odeen' s -- oddly -- pleased her. She became increasingly aware of his -- importance. There was something to being a Rational that made it possible to answer questions -- and somehow Dua had questions for him constantly. He was readier to answer when Tritt was not present. "Why does it take so long, Odeen? I don't like to melt and then not know what's happening for days at a time." "We're perfectly safe, Dua," said Odeen earnestly. "Come, nothing has ever happened to us, has it? You've never heard of anything ever happening to any other triad, have you? Besides, you shouldn't ask questions." "Because I'm an Emotional? Because other Emotionals don't ask questions? I can't stand other Emotionals -- if you want to know -- and I do want to ask questions." She was perfectly aware that Odeen was looking at her as though he had never seen anyone as attractive and that if Tritt had been present, melting would have taken place at once. She even let herself thin out -- not much, but perceptibly -- in deliberate coquettishness. Odeen said, "But you might not understand the implications, Dua. It takes a great deal of energy to initiate a new spark of life." "You've often mentioned energy. What is it? Exactly?" "Why, what we eat." "Well, then, why don't you say x food?" "Because food and energy aren't quite the same thing. Our food comes from the Sun and that's a kind of energy, but there are other kinds of energy that are not food. When we eat we've got to spread out and absorb the light. It's hardest for Emotionals because they're much more transparent -- that is, the light tends to pass through instead of being absorbed -- " IF How wonderful to have it explained, Dua thought. What she was told she really knew -- but she didn't know the proper words, the long science-words that Odeen knew. And they made sharper and more meaningful everything that happened. O ccasionally now -- in adult life when she no longer feared that childish teasing, when she shared in the prestige of being part of the Odeen-triad -- she tried to swarm with other Emotionals and to withstand the chatter and the crowding. After all, she did occasionally feel like having a more substantial meal than she usually got and it did make for better melting. There was a joy -- sometimes she caught the pleasure the others got out of it -- in slithering and maneuvering for exposure to Sunlight, in the luxurious contraction and condensation to absorb the warmth through greater thickness with greater efficiency. Yet for Dua a little of that went quite a way and the others never seemed to have enough. There was a kind of gluttonous wiggle about them that Dua could not duplicate and that, at length, she could not endure. That was why Rationals and Parentals were so rarely on the surface. Their thickness made it possible for them to eat quickly and leave. Emotionals writhed in the Sun for hours, for though they ate more slowly they actually needed more energy than the others -- at least for melting. The Emotional supplied the energy, Odeen had explained (pulsing so that his signals were barely comprehensible), the Rational the seed, the Parental the incubator. Once Dua understood, a certain amusement began to blend with her disapproval when she watched the other Emotionals virtually slurp up the ruddy Sunlight. Since they never asked questions she was sure they didn't know why they did so and couldn't understand that there was an obscene side to their quivering condensations and to the way they went tittering down below eventually -- on their way to a good melt, of course, with lots of energy to spare. She could also stand Tritt's annoyance when she would come down without that swirling opacity that meant a good gorging. Yet why should Tritt and Odeen complain? The thinness she retained meant a defter melting. Not as sloppy and glutinous as the other triads managed, perhaps, but it was ethereality that counted, she felt sure. And the little-left and little-right came eventually didn't they? Of course, it was the babyEmotional, the little-mid, that was the crux. That took more energy than the other two, and Dua never had enough. Even Odeen was beginning to mention it. "You're not getting enough Sunlight, Dua." "Yes, I am," said Dua hastily. "Genia's triad," said Odeen, "has just initiated an Emotional." Dua did not like Genia. Genia was empty-headed even by Emotional standards. Dua said loftily, " I suppose she's boasting about it. She has no delicacy. I suppose she's saying, 'I shouldn't mention it, my dear, but you'll never guesrwhat my Left-ling and Right-ling have gone and went and done -- Dua imitated Genia's tremulous signaling with deadly accuracy and Odeen was amused. But then he said, "Genia may be a dunder but she has initiated an Emotional, and Tritt is upset about it. We've been at it for much longer than the others have -- " Dua turned away. "I get all the Sun I can stand. I feed till I'm too full to move. I don't know what you want of me." Odeen said, "Don't be angry. I promised Tritt I would talk to you. He thinks you listen to me -- " "Oh, Tritt just thinks it's odd that you explain science to me. He doesn't understand. Do you want a Mid-ling like the others?" "No," said Odeen, seriously. "You're not like the others and I'm glad of it. And if you're interested in Rational talk let me explain something. The Sun doesn't supply the food it used to in ancient times. The light-energy is less and requires longer exposures. The .birth rate has been dropping for ages and the world's population is only a fraction of what it once was." "I can't help it," said Dua rebelliously. "The Hard Ones may be able to. Their numbers have been decreasing, too -- " "Do they pass on?" Dua was suddenly interested. She had always thought the Hard Ones were immortal -- that they weren't born and didn't die. Who had ever seen a baby Hard One, for instance? They didn't have babies. They didn't melt. They didn't eat. Ojdeen said thoughfully, "I imagine they pass on. They never talk about themselves to me. I'm not even sure how they eat, but of course they must. And they have to be born. There's a new one, for instance -- I haven't seen him yet -- But never mind that. The point is that they've been developing an artificial food -- " "I know," said Dua. "I've tasted it." "You have? I didn't know that." "A bunch of the Emotionals talked about it. They said a Hard One was asking for volunteers to afraid. They said it would probably turn them permanently hard and they would never be able to melt again." "That's foolish," said Odeen vehemently. "I know. So I volunteered. That shut them up. They are so difficult to endure, Odeen." "How was it?" "Horrible," said Dua firmly. "Harsh and bitter. Of course I didn't tell the other Emotionals that." Odeen said, "I tasted it. It wasn't that bad." "Rationals and Parentals don't care what food tastes like." But Odeen said, "It's still only experimental. They're working hard on improvements, the Hard Ones are. Especially Estwald -- IF that's the one I mentioned before, the new one I haven't seen -- he's working on it. Losten speaks of him now and then as though he were something special -- a great scientist." "How is it you've never seen him?" "I'm just a Soft One. You don't suppose they show me and tell me everything, do you? Some day I'll see him,. I suppose. He's developed a new source of energy that may yet save us all -- " "I don't want artificial food." said Dua, and left Odeen abruptly. That conversation had taken place not so long ago and Odeen had not mentioned the new food again. But she knew he would and she brooded about it up here in the Sunset. She had seen the artificial food that one time -- a glowing sphere of light like a tiny Sun in a special cavern set up by the Hard Ones. She could taste its bitterness yet. Would they improve it? Would they make it taste better? Even delicious? And would she have to eat it then and fill herself with it till the full sensation gave her an uncontrollable desire to melt? She feared that self-generating desire. It was different when the desire came through the hectic combined stimulation of Left-ling and Right-ling. It was the selfgeneration that meant she would be ripe to bring about the initiation of a little-mid. And -- and she didn't want to start one! A long time passed before she would admit the truth to herself. She did not want to initiate an Emotional. It was after all three children were born that the time would inevitably come to pass on, something she did not want to do. She remembered the day her Parental had left her forever and it was never going to be like that for her. Of that she was fiercely determined. The other Emotionals did not care because they were too empty to think about it, but she was different. She was queer Dua, the Left-Em. That was what they had called her and she would be different. As long as she didn't have that third child she would not pass on -- she would continue to live. So she was not going to have that third child. Never. Never! But how was she going to stave it off? And how would she keep Odeen from finding out? What if Odeen found out? #b something. He was reasonably sure that Tritt would not actually go up to the surface after Dua. It would mean leaving the children and that was always hard for Tritt to do. Tritt waited without speaking for a while and when he left it was in the direction of the children's alcove. Odeen was rather glad to see Tritt go. Not quite, of course, for Tritt had been angry and withdrawn so that interpersonal contact had weakened and the barrier of displeasure had arisen. Odeen could not help but be melancholy at that. It was like the slowing of the life-pulse. He sometimes wondered if Tritt felt it, too. No, the thought was unfair. Tritt had the special relationship with the children. As for Dua -- who could tell what Dua felt? Who could tell what any Emotional felt? They were so different they made left and right seem alike in everything but mind. But even allowing for the erratic way of Emotionals, who could tell what Dua -- especially Dua -- felt? Dua was the problem. The delay in initialing the third child was indeed becoming too long, and Dua was growing less amenable to persuasion, not more. A restlessness was growing in Odeen himself, one he could not quite identify, something he would have to discuss with Losten. He made his way down to the Hard Caverns, hastening his movements into a continuous flow that was not nearly as undignified as the oddly exciting mixture of wavering and rushing that marked the Emotional curve-along or as amusing as the stolid weight-shift of the Parental -- (He had the keen thought-image of Tritt clumping in pursuit of the baby-Rational who, of course, was almost as slippery at his age as an Emotional and of Dua having to block the baby and bring him back and of Tritt cluckingly undecided whether to shake the small lifeobject or enfold him with his substance. From the start, Tritt could thin himself more effectively for the babies than for Odeen and when Odeen railed at him about that Tritt answered gravely, for he had no humor about such things, "Ah, but the children need it more.") Odeen was selfishly pleased with his own flow and thought it graceful and impressive. He had mentioned that once to Losten, to whom as his Hard-teaclier, he confessed everything. Losten had said, "But don't you think Emotionals or Parentals feel the same about their own flowpatterns? If each of you thinks differently and acts differently, ought you not to be pleased differently? A triad doesn't preclude individuality, you know." Odeen was not sure he understood about individuality. Did that mean being alone? A Hard One was alone, of course. There were no triads among them. How did they stand it?  Odeen had been quite young when the matter had come up and his relationship with the Hard Ones had only been beginning. The thought had suddenly struck him that he wasn't sure there were no triads among them. The fact that none existed was common legend among the Soft Ones -- but how correct was the legend? Odeen had thought about that and decided one must ask and not accept matters on faith. Odeen had asked, "Are you a Left or a Right, sir?" (In later times, Odeen pulsed at the memory of that question. How incredibly naive of him to have asked it. It was very little comfort that every Rational asked the question of a Hard One in some fashion sooner IF or later -- usually sooner.) Losten had answered quite calmly, "Neither, Little-left. There are no Lefts or Rights among the Hard Ones." "Or Mid-# -- Emotionals?" "Or Mid-lings?" And the Hard One changed the shape of his permanent sensory region in a fashion that Odeen eventually associated with amusement or pleasure. "No. No Mid-lings either. Just Hard Ones of one kind." Odeen had to ask. It came out involuntarily, quite against his desire. "But how do you stand it?" "It is different with us, Littleleft. We are used to it." Could Odeen become used to such a concept? There was the Parental triad that had filled his life so far and the sure knowledge that he would at some not-toodistant time form a triad of his own. What was life without that T He thought about it hard now and then. He thought about everything hard, as it came up. Sometimes he managed to catch a glimpse of what it might mean. That Hard Ones had only themselves -- not left-brother or right-brother or mid-sister or melting or children or Parentals. They had only the mind, only the inquiry into the Universe. Perhaps that was enough for them. As Odeen grew older he caught bits of understanding as to the joys of inquiry. They were almost enough -- almost enough -- and then he would think of Tritt and of Dua and decide that all the Universe besides was not quite enough. Unless -- It was odd, but every once in a while it seemed to him that there might come a time, a situation, a condition, when -- Then he would lose the momentary glimpse -- or, rather, glimpse of a glimpse -- and miss it all. Yet in time it would return, and lately he thought the concept grew stronger and would remain almost long enough to be caught. B UT none of that was what should involve him now. He had to see about Dua. He made his way along the familiar route, along which he had first been taken by his Parental (as Tritt would soon take their own young Rational, their own baby-left.) And he was instantly lost in memory again. The occasion had been frightening. There had been other young Rationals, all pulsing and shimmering and changing shape despite the Parental signals on every side to stay firm and smooth and not disgrace the triad. One small Left, a playmate of Odeen's, had, in fact, flattened out baby-fashion and would not unflatten, despite all the efforts of his horribly embarrassed Parental. The youngster had since become a perfectly normal student -- Though no Odeen, as Odeen himself could not help realizing with considerable complacency.) They met a number of Hard Ones on that first day of school. They paused with each so that each young-Rational vibration pattern might be recorded in several specialized ways and for a decision to be reached as to whether to accept any new Rational for instruction immediately or to wait another interval -- and if immediately, for what kind of instruction. Odeen, in a desperate effort, had drawn himself smooth and held himself unwavering as a Hard One approached. The Hard One said -- and the first sound of the odd tones of his voice almost undid Odeen's determination to be grownup -- "This is quite a firm-held Rational. How do you represent yourself, Left?" It was the first time Odeen had ever been called "left" without some form of diminutive. He felt firmer than ever as he managed to say, "Odeen, Hard-Sir," using the polite address his Parental had carefully taught him. Dimly Odeen remembered being taken through the Hard Caverns, past their equipment, their machinery, their 'libraries, their meaningless, crowding sights and sounds. More than his actual perceptions he remembered his inner feeling of despair. What would they do with him? His Parental had told him that he would learn, but he did not know what was really meant by "learn" and when he asked his Parental it turned out that the older one did not know either. It took Odeen a while to find out and the experience was pleasurable, so pleasurable -- and yet not without its worrisome aspects. The Hard One who had first called him "left" was his first teacher. The Hard One taught him to interpret the wave recordings so that after a while what seemed an incomprehensible code became words -- words just as clear as those he could form with his own vibrations. But then that first mentor failed to appear and another Hard One took over. It was a time before Odeen noticed. It was difficult for him in those early days to tell one Hard One from another, to differentiate among their voices. But then he grew certain. Little by little he grew certain and tie trembled at the change. He did not understand its significance. He gathered courage and finally asked, "Where is my teacher, Hard-Sir?" "Gamaldan? He will no longer be with you, Left." Odeen was speechless for a moment. Then he asked, "But Hard Ones don't pass on -- " He did not quite finish the phrase. The new Hard One said nothing, volunteered nothing. It was always to be like that, Odeen found out. They never talked about themselves. On every other subject they discoursed freely. Concerning themselves -- nothing. From dozens of pieces of evidence Odeen could not help but decide that Hard Ones passed on, that they were not immortal (something so many Soft Ones took for granted). Yet no Hard One ever confirmed his conclusion in words. Odeen and the other student Rational sometimes discussed it hesitantly, uneasily. Each brought in some small item that pointed inexorably to the mortality of the Hard IF Ones and wondered and did not like to conclude the obvious and let it go. The Hard Ones did not seem to mind that hints of mortality existed. They did nothing to mask them. But they never mentioned them either. And if the question was asked directly (sometimes it inevitably was) they never answered -- neither denying nor affirming. If they passed on they had to be born also -- yet they said nothing of that and Odeen never saw a young Hard One. Ones received their energy from rocks instead of from the Sun -- at least that they incorporated a powdered black rock into their bodies. Some of the other students thought so, too. Others, rather vehemently, refused to accept the theory. But no one could come to a conclusion, for no one ever saw a Hard One feeding in any manner and the Hard Ones never spoke of that either. In the end Odeen took their reticence for granted -- as part of them. Perhaps, he thought, it was their individuality, the fact that they formed no triads. It built a shell about them. And then, too, Odeen learned things of such grave import that questions concerning the private lives of the Hard Ones turned to trivia. He learned, for instance, that the whole world was shriveling -- dwindling. Losten, his new teacher, told him that. Odeen has asked about the unoccupied caverns that stretched so endlessly into the bowels of the world and Losten had seemed pleased. "Are you afraid to ask about them, Odeen?" (He was Odeen now -- not merely identified by some reference to his lefthood. It was always a source, of pride to him to hear a Hard One address him by name. Many did so. Odeen was a prodigy of understanding and the use of his name seemed a recognition of the fact. More than once Losten had expressed satisfaction at having him as a pupil.) Odeen was indeed afraid and, after some hesitation, said so. It was always easier to confess shortcomings to the Hard Ones than to fellow Rationals -- much easier than to confess them to Tritt, unthinkable to confess them to Tritt. "Then why do you ask?" Odeen hesitated again. Then said slowly, "I'm afraid of the unoccupied caverns because when I was youqg I was told they had all sorts of monstrous things in them. But I know nothing of that directly -- I only know what I have been told by other young ones who couldn't have known directly either. I want to find out the truth about them and the wanting has grown until there is more curiosity in me than fear." Losten looked pleased. "Good. The curiosity is useful, the fear useless. Your inner development is excellent, Odeen, and remember it is only your inner development that counts in the important things. Our help to you is marginal. Since you want to know it is easy to tell you that the unoccupied caverns are truly unoccupied. They are empty. There is nothing in them but the unimportant things left behind from times past." "Left behind by whom, HardSir?" Odeen felt uneasily compelled to use the honorific whenever he was too obviously in the presence of knowledge he. lacked that the other had. "By those who occupied them in times past. There was a time thousands of cycles ago when there were many thousands of Hard Ones and fewer of us now than there were in the past, Odeen. Nowadays there are not quite three hundred Hard Ones and fewer than ten thousand Soft Ones." "Why?" asked Odeen, shocked. (Only three hundred Hard Ones left -- surely an open admission that Hard Ones, passed on, but this was not the time to think of that.) "Because energy is diminishing. The Sun is cooling. It becomes harder in every cycle to give birth and to live." (Well, then, did not the words mean the Hard Ones gave birth, too? And did it mean that the HardOnes depended on the Sun for food, too, and not on rocks? Odeen filed the thought for later reference and dismissed it for now.) "Will this continue?" Odeen asked. "The Sun must dwindle to an end, Odeen, and some day give no food." "Does that mean that all of us, the Hard Ones and the Soft Ones, too, ultimately will pass on?" "What else can it mean?" "We can't all pass on. If we need energy and theJSun is coming to an end we must find other sources. Other stars." "But, Odeen, all the stars are coming to an end. The Universe is coming to an end." "If the stars come to an end, is there no food elsewhere? No other source of energy?" "No, all the sources of energy in the Universe are coming to an end." Odeen considered that rebelliously, then said, "Then other Universes. We can't give ' up just because the Universe does." He was palpitating as he said it. He had expanded with quite unforgivable discourtesy until he had swelled translucently into a size distinctly larger than the Hard One. But Losten merely expressed extreme pleasure. He said, "Wonderful, my Left-dear. The others must hear of this." Odeen had collapsed to normal size in mingled embarrassment and pleasure at hearing himself addressed as "Left-dear." Not very long after that conversation Losten himself had brought them Dua. Odeen had wondered idly if there had been any connection, but after a while his wonder burned itself out. Tritt had repeated so often that it was his own approach to Losten that had brought them Dua that Odeen had given up thinking about it. But now he was coming to Losten again. A long time had passed since those earlier days when he first learned that the Universe was comIF ing to an end and that (as it turned out) the Hard Ones were resolutely laboring to live on anyway. He had become an adept in many fields and Losten himself confessed that in physics there was little he could any longer teach Odeen that a Soft One could profitably learn. And there were other young Rationals to take in hand, so he did not see Losten as frequently as he once did. half-grown Rationals in the Radiation Chamber. Losten saw him at once through the glass and came out, closing the door carefully about him. "My Left-dear," he said, holding out his limbs in a gesture of friendship (so that Odeen, as so often in the past, experienced a perverse desire to touch, but controlled it.) "How are ybu?" "I did not mean to interrupt, Losten-Sir." "Interrupt? Those two will get along perfectly well by themselves for a time. They are probably glad to see me go, for I am sure I wegry them with too much talk." "Nonsense," said Odeen. "You always fascinated me and I'm sure you fascinate them." "Well, well. It is good of you to say so. I see you frequently in the library and I hear from others that you do well in your advanced courses -- and I miss my best student. How is Tritt? Is he as Parentally stubborn in his ways as ever?" "More stubborn every day. He gives strength to the triad." "And Dua?" "Dua? I have come -- She is very unusual, you know." Losten nodded, "Yes, I know that." His expression was one that Odeen had grown to associate with melancholy. Odeen waited a moment, then decided to tackle the matter directly. He asked, "Losten-Sir, was she brought to us, to Tritt and myself, just because she was unusual?" Losten said, "Would you be surprised? You are quite unusual yourself, Odeen, and you have told me on a number of occasions that Tritt is." "Yes," said Odeen with conviction. "He is." '"Then ought not your triad include an unusual Emotional?" . "There are many ways of being unusual," said Odeen thoughtfully. "In some ways Dua's oddness displeases Tritt and worries me. May I consult you?" "Always." "She is not fond of -- of melting." Losten listened gravely, to all appearances unembarrassed. Odeen went on: "She is fond of melting when we melt, that is, but it is not always easy to persuade her to do so." Losten said, "How does Tritt feel about melting? I mean, aside from the immediate pleasure of the act? What does it mean to him besides pleasure?" "Children, of course," said Odeen. "I like them and Dua likes them, too, but Tritt is the Parental. Do you understand that?" (It suddenly seemed to Odeen that Losten could not possibly understand all the subtleties of the triad.) "I try to understand," said Losten. "It seems to me, then, that Tritt gets more out of melting than melting alone. And how about you? What do you get out of it besides the pleasure?" Odeen considered. "I think you know. A kind of mental stimulation." "Yes, I know -- but I want to make sure you know. I want to make sure you haven't forgotten. You have told me often that when you came out of a period of melting and its odd loss of time -- during which. I admit I sometimes didn't see you for rather long periods -- you suddenly found yourself understanding many things that had seemed obscure before." "It was as though my mind remained active in the interval," said Odeen. "It was as though the time spent -- even though I was unaware of its passing and unconscious of my existence -- were necessary to me. During melting I could apparently think more deeply and intensely -- without the distraction of the less intellectual side of life." "Yes," agreed Losten, "and you'd, come back with a quantumjump in understanding. It is a common thing among you Rational, though I must admit no one improved in such great leaps as you. I honestly think that no Rational in history has done so." "Really?" Odeen tried not to seem unduly elated. "On the other hand, I may be wrong." Losten seemed slightly amused at Odeen's sudden loss of shimmer. "But never mind that. The point is that you, like Tritt, get something out of the melt beside the melt itself." "Yes. Most certainly." "And what does Dua get out of the melt besides the melt?" There was a long pause. "I don't know," said Odeen. "Have you never asked her?" "Never." "But then," said Losten, "if all she gets out of a melt is the melt and if you and Tritt get out of it the melt plus something else -- why should she be as eager for it as you two are?" "Other Emotionals don't seem to require -- " began Odeen defensively. "Other Emotionals are not like Dua. You've ' told me that often enough and, I think, with satisfaction." thought it might be something else." "What might that be?" "It's hard to explain. We know each other in the triad -- we sense each other. In some ways all three of us are part of a single individual. A misty individual that comes and goes. Mostly the feeling is subconscious. If we think about it with too great a concentration we lose it, so we can never get real detail. We -- " Odeen stopped rather hopelessly. "It's hard to explain the triad to someone -- " "I am trying to understand. You think you have caught a portion of Dua's inner mind, something she has tried to keep secret -- is that it?" "I'm not sure. It is the vaguest impression, sensed with a corner of IF my mind just now and then." "Well?" "I sometimes think Dua doesn't want to start a baby-Emotional." Losten looked at him gravely. "You only have two children so far, I think. A little-left and a littleright." "Yes, only two. The Emotional is difficult to initiate, you know." "I know." "And Dua will not trouble to absorb the necessary energy. Or even try to. She has any number of reasons but I can't believe any of them. It seems to me that for some reason she just doesn't want an Emotional. For myself -- if Dua really didn't want one for a while -- well, I would let her have her Way. But Tritt is a Parental and he wants one. He must have one and somehow I can't disappoint Tritt, not even for Dua," "If Dua had some rational cause for not wanting to initiate an Emotional, would that make a difference with you?" "With me, certainly, but not with Tritt. He doesn't understand such things." "But would you labor to keep him patient?" "Yes, I would -- for as long as I could." Losten said, "Has it occurred to you that hardly any Soft Ones -- " he hesitated as though searching for. a word and then used the customary Soft-One phrase -- "ever pass on before the children are born -- all three, with the baby-Emotional last?" "Yes, I know." Odeen wondered how Losten could possibly think him ignorant of so elementary a bit of knowledge. "Then the birth of a babyEmotional is equivalent to the coming of time to pass on." "Usually not till the Emotional is old enough -- " "But the time for passing on will be coming. Might it not be that Dua does not want to pass on?" "How can that be, Losten?" When the time comes to pass on, it is as when the time comes to melt. How can you not want to?" (Hard Ones did not melt -- perhaps they did not understand.) "Suppose Dua simply wants never to pass on? What would you then say?" "Why, that we must pass on eventually. If Dua merely wants to delay the last baby I might humor her and even persuade Tritt to -- perhaps. If she wants never to have it -- that simply cannot be allowed." "Why so?" Odeen paused to think it out. "I can't say, Losten-Sir, but I know we must pass on. I know it more and feel it more with each cycle, and sometimes I almost think I understand why." "You are a philosopher I sometimes think, Odeen," said Losten dryly. '"'Let's consider. By the time the third baby comes and grows, Tritt will have had all his children and can look forward to passing on after a fulfilled life. You yourself will have had the satisfaction of much learning and you, too, can pass on after a fulfilled life. But Dua?" "I don't know," said Odeen wretchedly. "Other Emotionals cling together and seem to get some pleasure out of chattering with each other. Dua, however, will not do so." "Well, she is unusual. Is there nothing she likes?" "She likes to listen to me talk about my work," mumbled Odeen. Losten said, "Well, don't be ashamed of that, Odeen. Every Rational talks about his work to his right and his mid. You all pretend you don't but you all do." Odeen said, "But Dua listens, Losten-Sir." "I'm quite sure she does. Not like other Emotionals. And does it ever seem to you that she understands rather better after a melt?" "Yes, I have noticed that at times. I didn't pay any particular attention, though -- " "Because you are sure Emotionals can't really understand these things. But there seems to be much of the Rational in Dua." (Odeen looked up at Losten with sudden consternation. Once Du had told him of her childhood unhappiness -- only once -- of the shrill calls of the other Emotionals and of the filthy name they had called her -- Left-Em. Had Losten heard of that, somehow? But he vyas merely looking calmly at Odeen.) Odeen said, "I have sometimes thought that, too." Then he burst out with: "I am proud of her for that." "Nothing wrong with that," said Losten. "Why not tell her so? And if she likes to pamper the Rationalness in herself -- why not let her? Teach her what you know more intensively. Answer her questions. Will it disgrace your triad to do that?" "I don't care if it does. And why should it? Tritt will think it a waste of time, but I'll handle him." "Explain to him that if Dua gets more out of life and a truer sense of fulfillment she might not have the fear of passing on that she now has and might be more ready to have a baby-Emotional." It was as though an enormous feeling of impending disaster had been lifted from Odeen. He said hurriedly, "You're right. I feel you're right. Losten-Sir, you understand so much. With you leading the Hard Ones, how can we fail to continue succeeding in the otherUniverse project?" "With me?" Losten was amused. "You forget it is Estwald who is guiding us now. He is the real hero of the project. It would be nowhere without him." "Oh, yes # " said Odeen, momentarily discomfited. He had never yet seen Estwald. In fact, he had not yet met a Soft One who had actually met him, though some reported having seen him in the distance now and then. Estwald was a new Hard One -- new, at least, in the sense that when Odeen had been young he had never heard Estwald mentioned. Did that mean that Estwald was a young Hard One, had been a child Hard One when Odeen had been a child Soft One? But never mind that. Right now, Odeen wanted to get back home. He could not touch Losten in gratitude, but he dould thank him again and then hasten away joyfully. IF His joy had a selfish component. It was not put there merely by the distant prospect of th babyEmotional and the thought of Tritt's pleasure. It was not even caused by the thought of Dua's fulfillment. What counted with him at this very moment was the immediate gleeful prospect ahead. He was going to be able to teach. No other Rational could feel the pleasure of so doing, he was sure, for no other Rational could possibly have an Emotional like Dua as part of the triad. It would be wonderful, if only Tritt could be made to understand the necessity. He would have to talk to Tritt, somehow persuade him to be patient. #c tient. He did not pretend to understand why Dua acted as she did. He did not want to try. He did not care. He never knew why Emotionals did what they did. And Dua did not even act like the other Emotionals. She never thought about the important thing. She would look at the Sun. But then she would thin out so that the light and food would simply pass through her. Then she would say it was beautiful. That was not the important thing. The important thing was to eat. What was beautiful about eating? What wasjbeautiful? She always wanted to melt dif ferently. Once she said, "Let's talk first. We never talk about it... We never think about it." Odeen would always say, "Let her have ter way, Tritt. It makes the melting better." Odeen was always patient. He always thought things would be better after a wait. Or else he would want to think matters out. Tritt was not sure he knew what Odeen meant by "thinking out." It seemed to him it just meant that Odeen did nothing. Like getting Dua in the first place. Odeen would stll be thinking it out. Tritt had gone right up to a Hard One and asked. That was the way to act. Now Odeen would do nothing about Dua. What about the babyEmotional? Well, Tritt would do something about it, if Odeen didn't. In fact, he v was doing something. He was edging down the long corridor even as all this was going, through his mind. He was hardly aware he had come this far. Was, this "thinking out?" Well -- he would not let himself be frightened. He would not back away. He looked about him stolidly. This was the way to the Hard Caverns. He knew he would be going that way with his little-left before very long. He had been shown the way by Odeen once. He did not know what he would do when he got there this time. Still, he felt no fright at all. He wanted a baby-Emotional. It was his right to have a baby-Emotional. Nothing was more important than that. The Hard Ones would see he got oner Had they not brought Dua when he had asked? But whom would he ask? Could he speak to any Hard One? Dimly he had made up his mind not to ask just any Hard One. There was the name of one he would ask for. He remembered the name. He even remembered when he had first heard the name. It was the time when the little-left had grown old enough to begin changing shape voluntarily. (What a great day! "Come, Odeen, quickly! Annis is all oval and hard. All by himself, too. Dua, look!" And they had rushed in. Annis had been the only child then. They had had to wait so long for the second. So they rushed in and he was just plastered in the corner. He was curling at himself and flowing over his resting place like wet clay. Odeen had left because he was busy. But Dua had said, "Oh, he'll do it again, Tritt." They had watched for hours and he didn't.) Tritt was hurt that Odeen hadn't waited. He would have scolded but Odeen had looked so weary. There had been definite wrinkles in his ovoid. And he had made no effort to smooth 'them out. Tri k tt had asked anxiously, "Is anything wrong, Odeen?" "A hard day and I'm not sure I'm going to get differential equations before the next melting." (Tritt did not remeiqber the exact hard words. Odeen always used hard words.) "Do you want to melt now?" "Oh, no. I just saw Dua heading topside and you know how she is if we try to interrupt that. There's no rush, really. There's a new Hard One, too." "A new Hard One?" Tritt had known a distinct lack of interest. Odeen found sharp interest in associating with Hard Ones, but Tritt wished the interest did not exist. Odeen was more intent on what he called his education than any other Rational in. the area. That was unfair. Odeen was too wrapped up in that. Dua was too wrapped up in roaming the surface alone. No one was properly interested in the triad but Tritt. "He's called Estwald." "Estwald?" Tritt had begun to feel a twinge of interest, perhaps because he was anxiously sensing Odeen's feelings. "I've never seen him, but they all talk about him." Odeen's eyes had flattened out as they usually did when he turned introspective. "He's responsible for that new thing they've got." "What new thing?" "The positron Pu -- You wouldn't understand, Tritt. It's a new thing they have. It's going to revolutionize the whole world." "What's revolutionize?" "Make everything different." Tritt had been at once alarmed. "They mustn't make everything different." "They'll make everything better. Different isn't always worse. Anyway, Estwald is responsible. He's very bright, I get the feeling." "Then why don't you like him?" "I didn't say I didn't like him." "You feel as though you don't like him." "Oh, nothing of the sort, Tritt. It's just that somehow -- somehow -- " Odeen had laughed. "I'm jealous. Hard Ones are so intelligent that a Soft One is nothing in IF comparison -- but I got used to that because Losten was always telling me how bright I was -- for a Soft One, I suppose. But now this Estwald comes along and even Losten seems lost in admiration. And I'm really nothing." Tritt had bellied out his foreplane until it had made contact with Odeen, who had looked up and smiled. "But that's just stupidity on my part. Who cares how smart a Hard One is? Not one of them has a tritt." Then they both had gone looking for Dua, after all. For a wonder she had finished wandering about -- they had met her as she was heading down again. It had been a very good melting, though the timelapse had been only a day or so. Tritt had worried about meltings then. With Annis so small even a short absence had been risky, though there were always other Parentals who would take over if necessary. After that Odeen had mentioned Estwald now and then. He always called him "the New One" even after considerable time had passed. He still had never seen him. "I think I'm avoiding him," he had said once when Dua was with them, "because he knows so much about the new device. I don't want to find out too soon. It's too much fun to learn." "The Positron Pump?" Dua had asked. That was another funny thing about Dua, Tritt thought. It annoyed him. She could say the hard words almost as well as Odeen could. Strange behavior for an Emotional! ask Estwald because Odeen had said he was smart. Besides, Odeen had never seen him. Estwald could not say, "I've talked to Odeen about it, Tritt, and you mustn't worry." Everyone thought that if you talked to the Rational you were talking to the triad. Nobody paid attention to the Parentals. But they would have to this time. He was in the Hard Caverns and everything seemed different. Nothing here looked like anything Tritt could understand. It was all wrong and frightening. Still, he was too anxious to see Estwald to let himself really be frightened. He said to himself, "I want my littlemid." That made him feel firm enough to walk forward. He saw a Hard One finally. There was just this one, doing something, bending over something. Odeen had once told Tritt that Hard Ones were always working at their -- whatever-it-was. Tritt did not remember and did not care. He moved smoothly up and stopped. "Hard-Sir," he said. The Hard One looked up at him and the air vibrated about him, the way Odeen said it did when two Hard Ones talked to each other sometimes. Then the Hard One seemed really to see Tritt and said, "Why, it's a Right. What is your business here? Do you have your little-left with you? Is today the start of asemester?" Tritt ignored it all. He said, "Where can I find Estwald, HardSir?" "Find whom?" "Estwald." The Hard One was silent for a long moment. Then he said, "What is your business with Estwald, Right?" Tritt felt stubborn. "It is important I speak to him. Are you Estwald, Hard-Sir?" "No, I am not. What is your name. Right?" "Tritt, Hard-Sir." "I see. You're the Right of Odeen's triad, aren't you?" "Yes." The Hard One's voice seemed to soften. "I'm afraid you can't see Estwald at the moment. He's not here. If anyone else can help you -- " Tritt didn't know what to say. He simply stood there. The Hard One said, "You go home now. Talk to Odeen. He'll help you. Yes? Go home, Right." The Hard One turned away. He seemed very concerned in matters other than Tritt and Tritt still stood, there, uncertain. Then he moved into another section quietly, flowing noiselessly. The Hard One did not look up. Tritt was not certain why he had moved in that particular direction. At first he felt only that it was good to dp so. Then the reason became clear. There was a thin warmth of food about him and he was nibbling at it. He had not been conscious of hunger, yet now he was eating and enjoying. The Sun was nowhere. Instinctively he looked up, but of course he was in a cavern. Yet the food was better than he had ever found it to be on the surface. He looked about, wondering. He wondered most of all that he should be wondering. He had sometimes been impatient with Odeen because Odeen wondered about so many things that did not matter. Now he himself -- Tritt -- was wondering. But what he was wondering about did matter. Suddenly, with an almost blinding flash, he realized that he would not wonder unless something in him told him the subject did matter. He acted quickly, marveling at his own bravery. After a while he retraced his steps. He moved past the Hard One again, the one to whom he had earlier spoken. He said, "I am going home, Hard-Sir." The Hard One merely said something incoherent. He was still doing something, bending over something, doing silly things andnot seeing the important thing. If Hard Ones were so great and powerful and smart, Tritt thought, how could they be so stupid? #a D U A found herself drifting toward the Hard Caverns. Partly she wanted something to do now that the Sun had set, something to keep her from returning home for an additional period of time, something to delay her having to listen to the importunities of Tritt and the half-embarrassed, half-resigned suggestions of Odeen. Partly, too, the Hard Caverns held an attraction for her. She had felt the last for a long IF time, ever since she was little in fact and had given up trying to pretend it wasn't so. Emotionals were not supposed to feel such temptations. Sometimes little Emotionals did -- Dua was old enough and experienced enough to know that -- but such young whims quickly faded or were discouraged. She herself, though, had continued stubbornly curious about the world and the Sun and the caverns -- anything at all -- till her Parental had said, "You're a queer one, Dua, dear. You're a funny little-midling. What will become of you?" She hadn't the vaguest notion at first of what was so queer and so funny about wanting to know. She had found out quickly enough that her Parental could not answer her questions. Once she had tried her Left-father, but he had shown none of her Parental's soft puzzlement. He had snapped, "Why do you ask, Dua?" his look harshly inquiring. She had run away frightened, and had not asked him again. One day another Emotional of her own age had shrieked "LeftEm" at her after she had said -- she no longer remembered what -- something that had seemed natural to her at the tinrfe. Dua had been abashed without knowing why and had asked her considerably older Left-brother, what a Left-Em was. He had withdrawn, embarrassed and mumbling, "I don't know -- " when it was obvious he did. After some thought she had gone to her Parental and asked, "Am I a Left-Em, daddy?" And he had said, "Who called you that, Dua? You must not repeat such words." She flowed herself about his near corner, thought about it a while and asked, "Is it bad?" He said, "You'll grow out of it -- " and let himself bulge a bit to make her swing outward and vibrate in the game she had always loved. She did not love it now, for it was quite clear that he hadn't answered her, really. She moved away thoughtfully. He had said, you'll grow out of it, so she was in it now, but in what ? Even then, she had had few real friends among the other Emotionals. They liked to whisper and giggle together, but she preferred flowing over the crumbled rocks, and enjoying the sensation of their roughness. Some mids, however, were more friendly than others and less provoking. There was Doral, as silly as the rest, really, but who would sometimes chatter amusingly. (Doral had grown up to join a triad with Dua's Right-brother and a young Left from another cavern complex, a Left whom Dua did not particularly like... Doral had then gone on to initiate a baby-left and baby-right in rapid succession and a baby-mid not too long after that. She had also grown so dense that the triad looked as though it had two Parentals and Dua wondered if they could still melt. Tritt was. always telling her pointedly what a good triad Doral helped make up.) She and Doral had sat alone one day and Dua had whispered, "Doral, do you know what a LeftEm is?" Doral had tittered and compressed herself, as though to avoid being seen. She had said, " It's an Emotional that acts like a Rational -- you know, like a Left. Get it? Left-Emotional -- Left-Em. Get it?" Of course Dua understood. It was obvious once explained. She would have seen it for herself at once if she had been able to bring herself to imagine such a state of affairs. Dua asked, "How do you know?" "The older girls told me." Doral's substance swirled and Dua found the motion unpleasant. "It's dirty," Doral said. "Why?" asked Dua. "Because it's dirty. Emotionals shouldn't act like Rationals." Dua had never thought about the possibility, but now she did. She said, "Why shouldn't they?" "Because. You want to know something else that's dirty?" Dua couldn't help being intrigued. "What?" Doral didn't say anything, but a portion of herself expanded suddenly and brushed against the unsuspecting Dua before the latter could form a concavity to elude the touch. Dua didn't like it. She shrank away and said, "Don't do that." "You know what else is dirty? You can go into a rock." "No, you can't," said Dua. It had been a silly thing to say for Dua had often moved through the outer surface of the rock and liked it. But now in the context of Doral' s snickering she felt revolted and denied the whole thing even to herself. "Yes, you can. It's called rockrubbing. Emotionals can do it easy. Lefts and Rights can only do it as babies. When they grow up, they do it with each other." "I don't believe you. You're making it up." "They do, I tell you. Do you know Dimit?" "No." "Sure you do. She's the one with the thick corner from Cavern C." "Is she the one who flows funny?" "Yes. On account of the thick corner. That's the one. She got into a rock all the way once -- except for the thick corner. She let her Leftbrother watch her do it and he told their Parental and what she got for that, She never did it again," Dua left then, quite upset. She didn't talk to Doral again for a long time and never really grew friendly with Doral again. Yet her curiosity had been aroused. Her curiosity? Why not say her Left-Emishness? O NE day when she was quite sure her Parental was not in the vicinity she let herself melt into a rock, slowly. It had been the first time she had tried it since she was quite young. There was a warmness about the sensation, but when she emerged she felt as though everyone could tell, as though the rock had left a stain on her. She tried it again now and then, more boldly, and let herself enjoy it more. She never sank in really deeply, of course. Eventually she was caught by her Parental who clucked in displeasure and she was more careful after that. She was older now and knew for IF certain fact that, despite Doral's snickering, the practice was not uncommon. Practically every Emotional indulged in it now and then and some quite openly admitted the fact. Such practices happened less frequently as Emotionals grew older and Dua did not think that any Emotional she knew ever indulged after joining a triad and beginning the proper meltings. It was one of her secrets (she never told anybody) that she had kept it up and that once or twice she had tried it even after triad-formation. (Those few times she had thought: What if Tritt finds out? Somehow the prospect seemed to present formidable consequences and rather spoiled the fun.) She found excuses for herself in her ordeals with the others. The cry of "Left-Em" drove her into an almost hermitlike isolation at one point and, being alone, she found consolation in the rocks. Rockrubbing, whether it was dirty or not, was a solitary act and they were forcing, her to be solitary. Or soshe told herself. She had tried to strike back once. She had cried out, "You're abunch of Right-Ems, a bunch of dirty Right-Ems," at the taunting mids. They had only laughed and Dua had run away in confusion and frustration. But she had been right. Almost every Emotional, when she reached the age of triad-formation, became interested in babies, fluttering about them in Parental imitation Dua had found repulsive. She herself had never felt such interest. Babies were only babies -- they were for right-brothers to worry about. The name-calling died as Dua grew older. It helped that she retained a girlishly rarefied structure and could flow with a smoky curl no others could duplicate. And when, increasingly, Lefts and Rights showed interest in her, the other Emotionals found it difficult to sneer. And yet -- and yet -- now that no one ever dared speak disrespectfully to Dua (for it was well known through all the caverns that Odeen was the most prominent Rational of the generation and Dua was his Mid-ling), she herself knew that she was a Left-Em past all redemption. She did not think that being one was dirty -- not really -- but occasionally she caught herself wishing she were a Rational and then she was abashed. She wondered if -- partly -- she didn't want a babyEmotional because she was not a real Emotional herself and did not fill her triad role properly. Odeen had not minded her being a Left-Em. He never called her one -- but he liked her interest in his life, liked her questions and the way she could understand. He even defended her when Tritt grew jealous -- well, not jealous, really -- but overwhelmed with a feeling that the situation did not fit his stubborn and limited outlook. Hard Caverns occasionally, eager to posture before Dua and openly pleased that Dua was impressed. And she was impressed, not so much with the clear fact of his knowledge and intelligence, but with the fact that he did not resent sharing it. (She remembered her left-father's harsh response that one time she had questioned him.) She never loved Odeen as much as when he let her share his life -- yet even that was part of her LeftEmishness. Perhaps (this had occurred to her over and over) by being Left-Emish, she moved closer to Odeen and farther from Tritt and this was another reason Tritt's importunities repelled her. Her first time in a Hard Cavern she heard two Hard Ones talking. She did not know they were talking, of course. There was air vibration, rapid and changing, that made an unpleasant buzz deep inside her. She had to rarefy and let it through. Odeen said, "They're talking." Then, hastily, anticipating her objection: "Their kind of talk. They understand each other." Dua managed to grasp the concept. It was all the more delightful to understand quickly because that pleased Odeen so. (He once said, "None of the other Rationals I've ever met have anything but an empty-head for an Emotional. I'm lucky." She had said, "But the other Rationals seem to like emptyheads. Why are you different from them, Odeen?" Odeen did not deny that the other Rationals liked empty-heads. He simply said, "I've never figured it out and I don't think it's important that I do. I'm pleased with you and I'm pleased that I'm pleased.") She said, "Can you understand Hard-One talk?"  "Not really," said Odeen. "I can't sense the changes fast enough. Sometimes I can get a feel for what they're saying, even without understanding, especially after we've melted. Just sometimes, though. Getting feels like that is really an Emotional trick, except even if an Emotional does it, she can never make real sense out of what she's feeling. You might, though." Dua demurred. "I'd be afraid to. They might not like it." "Oh, go on. I'm curious. See if you can tell what they're talking about." "Shall I? Really?" "Go ahead. If they catch you and are annoyed. I'll say I made you do it." "Promise?" "I promise." Feeling rather fluttery, Dua let herself reach out to the Hard Ones and adopted the total passivity that allowed the influx of feelings. She said, "Excitement. They're excited. Someone new." Odeen said, "Maybe that's Estwald." It was the first time Dua had hard the name. She said, "That's funny." "What's funny?" "I have the feeling of a big Sun. A really big Sun." Odeen looked thoughtful. "They might be talking about that." "But how can that be?" them, approached and greeted IF them in Soft-One fashion of speech. Dua' was horribly embarrassed and wondered if they knew she had been sensing them. If they did, though, they said nothing. (Odeen told her afterward that it was quite rare to come upon Hard Ones talking among themselves in their own fashion. They always deferred to the Soft Ones and seemed always to suspend their own talk when Soft Ones were there. "They like us so much," said Odeen. "They are very kind.") Once in a while he would take her deep into the Hard Caverns -- usually when Tritt was entirely wrapped up in the children. Odeen did not go out of his way to tell Tritt that he had taken Dua down -- to do so would have been sure to evoke some response to the effect that Odeen's coddling simply encouraged DuaY reluctance to Sun herself and just made the melting that much more ineffective. It was hard to talk to Tritt for more than five minutes without melting coming into the conversation. She had even gone down alone once or twice. Doing so had always frightened her a little, though the Hard Ones she met were always friendly, always "very kind" as Odeen said. But they did not seem to take her seriously. They were pleased, but somehow amused -- she could feel that definitely -- when she asked questions. And when they answered it was in some Simple way that carried no information. "Just a machine, Dua," they would say. "Odeen might be able to tell you." She wondered if she had met Estwald. She never quite dared to try to discover the names of the Hard Ones she met (except Losten's, to whom Odeen had introduced her and of whom she heard a great deal.) Sometimes it seemed to her that this Hard One or that might be Estwald. Odeen talked about him with great awe and with some resentment. She gathered that Estwald was too deeply engaged in work of the profoundest importance to be in the caverns readily accessible to the Soft Ones. She pieced together what Odeen told her and, little by little, discovered, that the world needed food badly... Odeen hardly ever called it "food." He said "energy" instead and said it was the Hard-One word for it. The Sun was fading and dying but Estwald had discovered how to find energy far away, far beyond the Sun, far beyond the seven stars that shone in the dark night sky. (Odeen said the seven stars were seven Suns that were very distant and that there were many other stars that were even more distant and were too dim to be seen. Tritt had heard him say that and had asked what use it was for stars to exist if they coyld not be seen and had said he didn't believe a word of what Odeen was saying.) It looked now as though there would be.plenty of energy forever -- at least as soon as Estwald and the other Hard Ones learned to make the new energy taste right. Only a few days ago she had asked Odeen, "Do you remember, long ago, when you took me to the Hard Caverns and I sensed the Hard Ones and said I caught the feeling of a big Sun?" Odeen had looked puzzled for a moment. "I'm not sure. But go ahead, Dua. What about it?" "I've been thinking. Is the big Sun the source of the new energy?" Odeen had said happily, 'That's good, Dua. It's not quite right, but that's such good intuition for an Emotional." D UA had been moving slowly, rather moodily, during her reveries. Without particularly noting the passage of either time or space she found herself in the Hard Caverns and was just beginning to wonder if she had not really delayed as long as she safely could and whether she had not best turn home and face the inevitable annoyance of Tritt when -- almost as though the thought of Tritt had brought it about -- she sensed Tritt. The sensation was so strong that she knew only one confused moment of thinking that somehow she was picking up his feelings far away in the home cavern. No -- he was here, down here in the Hard Caverns with her. But what could he be doing here? Was he pursuing her? Was he going to quarrel with her here? Was he foolishly going to appeal to the Hard Ones? Dua did not think she could endure that. And then the feeling of cold horror left her and was replaced by astonishment. Tritt was not thinking of her at all. He had to be unaware of her presence. All she could sense about him was an overwhelming feeling of some sort of determination, mixed with fear and apprehension at something he would do. Dua might have penetrated farther and found out something, at least, about why he was here -- but nothing was further from her thoughts. Since Tritt did not know she was in the vicinity she wanted to make sure of only one thing -- that he continued not to know. She did, then almost in pure reflex, something that a moment before she would not have dreamed of doing under any circumstances. Perhaps it was (she later thought) because of her idle reminiscences of that little-girl talk with Doral or because of her memories of her own experiments with rockrubbing. (There was a complicated adult word for it but she found that word infinitely more embarrassing than the one all the children had used.) In any case, without quite knowing what she was doing or, for a short while afterward, what she had done, she simply flowed hastily into the nearest wall. Into it! Every bit of her! The horror of what she had done was mitigated by the perfect manner in which it accomplished its purpose. Tritt passed by within touching distance and remained completely unaware that at one point he might have reached out and felt his Mid-ling. By that time Dua had no room to wonder what Tritt might be doing in the Hard Caverns if he had not come in pursuit of her. She forgot Tritt completely. IF What filled her instead was pure astonishment at her position. Even in childhood she had never melted completely into rock or met anyone who admitted doing so (though there were invariably tales of someone else who had). Certainly no adult Emotional ever had or could have acted as Dua had. She was unusually rarefied even For an Emotional (Odeen was fond of telling her that) and her avoidance of food accentuated this (as Tritt often said). What she had just done indicated the extent of her rarefaction more than any amount of Right-ling scolding could have managed and for a moment she was ashamed and sorry for Tritt. xV deeper shame. What if she were caught? What if a Hard One passed and lingered? She could not possibly bring herself to emerge if anyone were watching -- but how long could she stay in the rock? She sensed the Hard Ones and realized they were far away. She paused, strove to calm herself. The rock, permeating and surrounding her, lent a grayness to her perceptions but did not dim them. Indeed, she sensed more sharply. She could still feel Tritt's steady motion downward as keenly as though he were by her side and she was aware of the Hard Ones, though they were in a cavern complex far away. She saw the Hard Ones, every single one of them, each in his place, and caught their vibratory speech to the fullest detail. She even absorbed bits of what they were saying. She was sensing as never before. So, though she could now leave the rock, secure in the knowledge she was both alone and unobserved, she did not -- partly out of amazement, partly because of the curious exultation she felt at a new understanding. She desired to experience it further.  Her sensitivity was such that she even knew why she was sensitive. Odeen had frequently remarked how well he understood something after a period of melting, even though he had not understood it at all before. Something about the melted state increased sensitivity incredibly -- more was absorbed, more used. The reason was the greater atomic density during melting, Odeen had said. Even though Dua was not sure what "greater atomic density" meant, it came with melting and wasn't this present situation rather like melting? Hadn't Dua melted with rock? When the triad melted, all the sensitivity went to Odeen's benefit. The Rational absorbed it, gained understanding and retained that understanding after separation. But now Dua was the only consciousness in the melt, which consisted of herself and the rock. There was "greater atomic density" (surely?) with only herself to benefit. (Was this why rock-rubbing was considered a perversion? Was this why Emotionals were warned off? Or was her experience unique because she was so rarefied? Or because she was a LeftEm?) And then Dua stopped all speculation and simply sensed -- in fascination. She was only mechanically aware of Tritt returning, moving past her, passing in the direction from which he had come. She was only mechanically aware -- scarcely feeling the vaguest surprise -- that Odeen, too, was coming up from the Hard Caverns. She concentrated on the Hard Ones, trying to make the most of her perceptions. It was a long time before she flowed out of the rock. And when that time came she was not concerned overmuch about whether she would be observed. She was confident enough of her sensing ability to know she would not be. She went home deep in thought. #b Tritt waiting for him. Dua still had not come back. Tritt did not seem disturbed at that, though he was upset about something else. His emotions were strong enough for Odeen to sense them clearly, but he let them be without probing. Dua's absence made him restless. He found himself annoyed at Tritt's presence simply because Tritt was not Dua. In this he surprised himself. He could not deny to himself that it was Tritt who, of the two, was the dearer to him. Ideally all members of the triad were one and each member should treat the other two exactly on a par. Just the same, Odeen had never known a triad in which this was so. One of the three was always a bit on the outside and generally knew it, too. It was rarely the Emotional, though. Emotionals supported each other cross-triad to an extent that Rationals and Parentals never did. The Rational had his teacher, the saying went, and the Parental his children -- but the Emotional had all the other Emotionals. Emotionals compared notes and if one claimed neglect or could be made to claim it she was sent back with a thin patter of instructions to stand firm, to demand! And because melting depended so much on the Emotional and her attitude she was usually pampered by both left and right. But Dua was so non-Emotional an Emotional. She did not seem to care that Odeen and Tritt were so close and she had no close friendships among the Emotionals to make her care. Odeen loved having her so interested in hi work, loved having her so concerned and so amazingly ready of comprehension -- but that was an intellectual love. The deeper feeling went to steady, stupid Tritt who knew his place so well and who could offer so little other than exactly what counted -- the security of assured routine. But now Odeen felt petulant. He asked, "Have you heard from Dua, Tritt?" Tritt did not answer directly. He said, "I am busy. I will see you later. I have been doing things." "Where are the children? Have you been gone, too? There is a ,# IF definite been-gone feel to you." A note of annoyance made itself plain in Tritt's voice. "The children are well trained. They know enough to place themselves in community care. Really, Odeen, they are not babies." But he did not deny the "been-gone" aura that he faintly exuded. "I'm sorry. I'm just anxious to see Dua." "You should feel so more often," Tritt said. "You always tell me to leave her alone. You look for her." And he went on into the deeper recesses of the home cavern. Odeen looked after his Rightling with some surprise. On almost any other occasion he would have followed in an attempt to probe the unusual uneasiness that was making itself quite evident through the ingrained stolidity of a Parental. What had Tritt done? But Odeen was waiting for Dua and growing more anxious by the moment. He let Tritt go. Anxiety keened Odeen's sensitivity. Rationals knew a perverse pride in their relative poverty of perception. Such perception was not a thing of the mind -- it was most characteristic of Emotionals. Odeen was a Rational of Rationals, proud of reasoning rather than feeling, yet now he flung out the imperfect net of his emotional perception as far as he could and wished, for just a moment, that he were an Emotional and could send it out farther and better. Yet it eventually served his purpose. He could detect Dua's approach finally at an unusual distance -- for him -- and hastened out to meet her. And because he made her out at such a distance, Jie was more aware of her rarefaction than he ordinarily was. She was a delicate mist, no more. Tritt was right, Odeen thought with sudden, sharp concern. Dua must be made to eat and to melt. Her interest in life must be increased. cessity of this that when she flung herself flowingly toward him and virtually engulfed him -- in utter disregard of the fact that they were not itf private and might be observed -- and said, "Odeen, I must know -- I must know so much -- " he accepted it as the completion of his own thought and did not even consider it strange. Carefully he slipped away, trying to adopt a more seemly union without making it seem he was repulsing her. "Come," he said. "I've been waiting for you. Tell me what you want to krfow. I will explain all I can." They were moving quickly homeward now, with Odeen adapting himself eagerly to the characteristic waver of the Emotional flow. Dua said, "Tell me about the other-Universe. Why is it different? How is it different? Tell me all about it." t It did not occur to Dua that she was asking too much. It did occur to Odeen. She felt to him rich with an astonishing quantity of knowledge and he was on the point of asking, How do you come to know enough about the otherUniverse to be so curious about it? He repressed the question. Dua was coming from the direction of the Hard Caverns. Perhaps Losten had been talking to her, suspecting that despite everything Odeen would be tQO proud of his status to help his Mid-ling. Not so, thought Odeen gravely. And he would not ask. He would simply explain. Tritt bustled about them when they returned home. "If you two are going to talk go into Dua's chamber. I will be busy out here. I must see to it that the children are cleaned and exercised. No time for melting now. No melting. Neither Odeen nor Dua had any thought of disobeying the command. The Parental's home was his castle. The Rational had his Hard Caverns below and the Emotional her meeting places above. The Parental had only his home. Odeen therefore said, "Yes, Tritt. We'll be out of your way." And Dua extended a briefly loving part of herself and said, "It's good to see you, Right-dear." (Odeen wondered if her gesture were relief over the fact that there was no pressure to melt. Tritt did tend to overdo that a bit -- even more than Parentals generally.) In her chamber Dua stared at her private feeding place. Ordinarily she ignored it. It had been Odeen's idea. He knew that such things did exist and, as he explained to Tritt, if Dua did not like to swarm with the other Emotionals it was perfectly possible to lead Solar energy down into the cavern so that Dua might feed there. Tritt had been horrified. It wasn't done. The others would laugh. The triad would be disgraced. Why didn't Dua behave as she should? "Yes, Tritt," Odeen had said, "but she doesn't behave as she should, so why not accommodate her? Is it so terrible? She will eat privately, gain substance, make us happier, become happier herself and maybe learn to swarm in the end." Tritt allowed it and even Dua allowed it -- after some argument -- but insisted that it be a simple design. So the arrangement consisted of the two rods that served as electrodes powered by Solar energy, with room for Dua in between. Bare essentials. Dua rarely used the accommodation, but this time she stared at it and said, "Tritt has decorated it. Unless you did, Odeen." "I? Of course not." A pattern of colored clay designs was at the base of each electrode. "I suppose it's his way of saying he wishes I would use it," Dua said, "and I am hungry. Besides, if I'm eating, Tritt wouldn't dream of interrupting us, would he?" "No," said Odeen, gravely. "Tritt would stop the world if he thought its motion might disturb you while you were eating." Dua said, "Well -- I am hungry." Odeen caught a trace of guilt in her. Guilt over Tritt? Over being hungry? Why should Dua feel IF guilty about being hungry? Or had she done something that had consumed energy? He wrenched his mind away from that course impatiently. There were times when a Rational could be too Rational and chase down the track of every stray thought to the detriment of what was important. Right now it was important for him to talk to Dua. S HE seated herself between electrodes and when she compressed herself to do so, her small size became only too painfully evident. Odeen was hungry himself -- he could tell because the electrodes seemed brighter than they ordinarily did and he could taste the food even at the distance and the savor was delicious. But he would eat later. Dua said, "Don't just sit silent, Left-dear. Tell me. I want to know." She had adopted (unconsciously?) the ovoid character of a Rational, as though to make it clearer that she wanted to be accepted as one. Odeen said, "I can't explain it all -- all the science, I mean -- because you haven't had the background. I will try to make it simple and you just listen. You tell me later what you don't  understand and I'll try to explain further. You do know by now that everything is made up of tiny particles called atoms and that these are made up of still tinier subatomic particles." "Yes, yes," said Dua. "That's why we can melt." "Exactly. Because actually we are mostly empty space. All the particles are far apart and your i particles and mine and Tritt's can all melt together because each set fits into the empty spaces around the other set. The reason matter doesn't fly apart altogether is that the tiny particles do manage to cling together across the space that separates them. There are attractive forces holding them to- gether, the strongest being one we call the nuclear force. It holds the chief subatomic particles tightly together in bunches that are spread widely apart and that are held together by weaker forces. Do you understand that?" "Only a little bit," said Dua. "Well, never mind -- we caa go back later. Matter can exist in different states. It can be especially spread out, as in Emotionals -- as in you, Dua. It can be a little less spread out, as in Rationals and in Parentals. Or still less so, as in rock. It can be very compressed or thick, as in the Hard Ones. That's why they're hard. They are filled with particles." "You mean there's no empty space in them?" "No, that's not quite what I mean," said Odeen, puzzled as to how to make matter clearer. "They still have a great deal of empty space, but not as much as we do. Particles need a certain amount of empty space and if all they have is that much -- just as much as they must have -- then other particles can't squeeze in. If particles are forced in pain occurs. That's why the Hard Ones don't like to be touched by us. We Soft Ones have more space between the particles than is actually needed, so other particles can fit in without hurting." Dua did not look at all convinced. Odeen hastened on. "In the otherUniverse the rules are different. The nuclear force isn't as strong as in ours. That means the particles need more room." "Why?" Odeen shook his head. "Because -- because -- the particles spread out their wave forms more. I can't explain better than that. With a weaker nuclear force, the particles need more room and two pieces of matter can't melt together as easily as they can in our Universe." "Can we see the other-Universe?" "Oh, no. That isn't possible. We can deduce its nature from its basic laws. The Hard Ones can do a great many things, though. We can send material across and get material from the other-Universe creatures. We can study their material, you see. And we can set up the Positron Pump. You know about that, don't you?" "Well, you've told me we get energy out of it. I didn't know there was a different Universe involved. What is the other-Universe like? Does it have stars and worlds?" "That's an excellent question, Dua." Odeen was enjoying his role as teacher much more intensely than usual now that he had official encouragement to speak. (Earlier he had always felt a kind of sneaking perversion in trying to explain things to an Emotional.) other-Universe, but we can calculate what it must be like from its laws. You see, what makes the stars shine is the gradual combination of simple particle combinations into more complicated ones. We call it nuclear fusion." "Do they have that in the otherUniverse?" "Yes, but because the nuclear force is weaker, fusion is much slower. This means that the stars must be much, much bigger in the other-Universe -- or not enough fusion would take place to make them shine. Stars of the otherUniverse that were no bigger than our Sun would be cold and dead. On the other hand, if stars in our Universe were bigger than they are the amount of fusion would be so great it would blow them tip. That means that in our Universe there must be thousands of times as many small stars as there are large stars in theirs -- " "We only have seven -- " began Dua. Then she added, "Oh, I forgot something -- " Odeen smiled indulgently. It was so easy to forget the uncounted stars that could not be seen except by special instruments. "That's all right. You don't mind my boring you with all this?" "You're not boring me," said Dua. "I love it. It even makes food taste good." And she wavered between the electrodes with a kind of luxurious tremor. Odeen, who had never before heard Dua say anything complimentary about food, was greatly heartened. He said, "Of course, our Universe doesn't last as long as theirs. Fusion goes so fast that all IF the particles are combined after a "But there.are many other stars." "Ah, but you see, they're all going at once. The whole Universe is dying. In the other-Universe, with so many fewer and larger stars, the fusion goes so slowly that the stars last thousands and millions of times as long as ours. It's hard to compare because it may be that time moves at different rates in the two Universes." He added with some reluctance. "I don't understand that part myself. That's part of the Estwald Theory and I haven't got to that very much so far." "Did Estwald work out all of this?" "A great deal of it." Dua said, "It's wonderful that we're getting the food from the other-Universe. I mean, it doesn't matter if our Sun dies out, then. We can get all the food we want from there." "That's right." "But does nothing bad happen? I have the -- the feeling that something bad happens." "Well," said Odeen. "We transfer matter back and forth to work the Positron Pump and that means the two Universes mix together a little. Our nuclear force gets a tiny bit weaker, so fusion in our Sun slows up a little and. the Sun cools down a little faster. But just a little, and we don't need it any more anyway." "That's not the something-bad feeling I have. If the nuclear force gets a tiny bit weaker the atoms take up more room -- is that right? Then what happens to melting?" "That gets more difficult but times before it would get difficult enough to notice. Even if some day melting became impossible and Soft Ones died oixt -- that would happen long, long after we would all have died for lack of food if we weren't using the other-Universe." "That's still not the somethingbad -- feeling -- " Dua's words were beginning to slur. She wriggled between her electrodes and to Odeen's gratified eyes she seemed noticeably larger and compacted It was as though his words as well as the food were nourishing her. Losten was right. Education made her more nearly satisfied with life. Odeen could sense a kind of sensual joy in Dua that he had scarcely ever felt before. She said, "It is so kind of you to explain, Odeen. You are a good Left-ling." "Do you want me to go on?" asked Odeen, flattered and more pleased than he could easily say. "Is there anything else you want to ask?" "A great deal, Odeen, but -- but not now. Not now, Odeen. Oh, Odeen, do you know what I want to do?" Odeen guessed at once, but was too cautious to say it openly. Dua's moments of erotic advance were too few to treat with anything but care. He hoped desperately that Tritt had not involved himself with the children to the point where they could not take advantage of this. But Tritt was already in the chamber. Had he been outside the door, waiting? Odeen did not care. There was no time to think. Dua had flowed out from between the electrodes and Odeen' s senses were filled with her beauty. She was between them now and through her Tritt shimmered, his outlines flaming in incredible color. It had never been like this. Never. Odeen held himself back desperately, letting his own substance flow through Dua and into Tritt an atom at a time, holding away from the overpowering penetrance of Dua with evry bit of strength, not giving himself up to the ecstasy, but letting it be wrenched from him -- hanging on to his consciousness to the last possible moment and then blanking out in one final transport so intense it felt like an explosion echoing and reverberating endlessly within him. Never in the lifetime of the triad had the period of melting unconsciousness lasted so long. #c ing had been satisfactory. All previous occasions seemed skimpy and hollow in comparison. He was utterly delighted with what had happened. Yet he kept quiet. He felt it better not to speak. Odeen and Dua were happy, too. Tritt could tell. Even the children seemed to be glowing. But Tritt was happiest of all -- naturally. He listened to Odeen and Dua talk. That he understood none of it did not matter. He didn't mind that they seemed so pleased with each other. He had his own pleasure and was content to listen. Dua said on one occasion. "And do they really try to communicate with us?" (Tritt never got it quite clear who "they" might be. He gathered that "communicate" was a fancy word for "talk." So why didn't they say "talk?" Sometimes he wondered if he should interrupt. But if he asked questions Odeen would only say, "Now, Tritt -- " and Dua would swirl impatiently.) "Oh, yes," said Odeen. "The Hard Ones are quite sure of that. The other-beings have put markings on the material that is sent us sometimes and the Hard Ones say that it is perfectly possible to communicate by such markings. Long ago, in fact, they used markings, in reverse, when it was necessary to explain to the other-beings how to set up their part of the Positron Pump -- in their Universe it is an Electron Pump." "I wonder what the other-beings look like. What do you suppose?" "From the laws we can work out the nature of the stars because that is simple. But how can we work out the nature of the beings? We can never know." "Couldn't they communicate what they look like?" "If we understood what they communicated, perhaps we could make out something. But we don't understand." Dua seemed aggrieved. "Don't the Hard Ones understand?" v "I don't know. If they do they haven't told me. Losten once said it didn't matter what they were like as IF long as the Pump worked and was enlarged." "Maybe he just didn't want you bothering him." Odeen said huffily. "I don't bother him." "Oh, you know what I mean. He just didn't want to get into those details." By that time Tritt could no longer listen. They went on arguing for quite a while over whether the Hard Ones should let Dua look at the markings or not. Dua said that she might sense what they said, perhaps. Her remark made Tritt a little angry. After ail, Dua was only a Soft One and not even a Rational. He began to wonder if Odeen were right to tell her all he did. It gave Dua funny ideas. Dua could see Odeen was angry, too. First he laughed. Then he said that an Emotional could not handle such complicated ideas. Then he refused to talk at all. Dua had to be very pleasant to him till he came around. who was angry -- absolutely furious. The moment began quietly. In fact, it was on one of the times when the two children were with them. Odeen was letting them play with him. He didn't even mind when Little-right Torun pulled at him. In fact, he let himself go in most undignified fashion. He didn't seem to mind that he was all out of shape. It was a sure sign he was pleased. Tritt remained in a corner, resting, he was so satisfied with what was happening. Dua laughed at Odeen's misshapenness. She let her own substance touch Odeen's knobbishness flirtatiously. She knew very well that the leftish surface was sensitive when out of ovoid. Dua said, "I've been thinking, Odeen. If the otherUniverse gets its laws into ours just a bit through the Pump, doesn't our own Universe get its laws into theirs the same little bit?" Odeen howled at Dua's touch and tried to avoid her without upsetting the little ones. He gasped, "I can't answer unless you stop, you Midling wretch." She stopped and he said, "That's a good thought, Dua. You're an amazing creature. It's true, of course. The mixture goes both ways. Tritt, take out the little ones, will you?" But they scurried off by themselves. They were not such little ones. They were quite grown. Annis would soon be starting his education and Torun was already quite Parentally blockish. Tritt stayed and thought Dua looked very beautiful when Odeen talked to her in this way. Dua said, "If the other laws slow down our Suns and cool them down -- don't our laws speed up theirs and heat them up?" "Exactly right, Dua. A Rational couldn't do better." "How hot do their Suns get?" "Just slightly hotter, very slightly." Dua said, "But that's where I keep getting the something-bad feeling." "Oh, well, the trouble is that their Suns are so huge. If our little Suns get a littler cooler it doesn't matter. Even if they turned off altogether it wouldn ? t matter as long as we have the Positron Pump. With great, huge stars, though -- getting them even a little hotter is troublesome. There so much material in one of those stars that turning up the nuclear fusion even a little way will make it explode." "Explode? But then what happens to the beings?" "What beings?" "The beings in the otherUniverse." For a moment Odeen looked blank. Then he said, "I don't know." "Well, what would happen if our own Sun exploded?" "It couldn't explode." (Tritt wondered what all the excitement was about. How could a Sun explode? Dua seemed angrier and Odeen looked confused.) Dua said, "But if it did? Would it get very hot?" "I suppose so." "Wouldn't it kill us all?" Odeen hesitated and then said in clear annoyance. "What difference does it make, Dua? Our Sun isn't exploding. Don't ask silly questions." "You told me to ask questions, Odeen, and it does make a difference, because the Pump works both ways. We need their end as much as they need ours." Odeen stared at her. "I never told you that." "I feel it." Odeen said, "You feel a great many things. Dua -- " But Dua was shouting now. She was quite beside herself. Tritt had never seen her like that. She Said, "Don't change the subject, Odeen. And don't withdraw and try to make me put a complete fool -- just another Emotional. You said I wasalmost like a Rational and I'm enough like one to see that our Positron Pump won't work without the other-beings. If the beings in the Other-Universe are destroyed, their end of the Pump will stop and our Sun will be colder than ever and we'll all starve. Don't you think that's important?" Odeen, too, was shouting now. "That shows what you know. We need their help because the energy supply is in low concentration and we have to switch matter. If the Sun in the other-Universe explodes there'll be an enormous flood of energy -- a huge flood that will last so much energy, we could tap it directly without any matter-shift either way -- so we don't need them. And it doesn't matter what happens -- " They were almost touching now. Tritt was horrified. He had better say something, make them get apart, talk to them. He couldn't think of anything to say. Then it turned out he didn't have to. ' There was a Hard One just outside the cavern. No, three of them. They had been trying to talk and hadn't made themselves heard. Tritt shrieked, "Odeen! Dua!" Then he remained quiet, trembling. He had a frightened notion of what the Hard Ones had come to talk about. He decided to leave. But a Hard One put out one of IF his permanent, opaque appendages and said, "Don't go." The words sounded harsh, unfriendly. Tritt was more frightened than ever. #a D U A was filled with anger, so filled she could scarcely sense the Hard Ones. She seemed stifled under the components of the anger, separately. She knew a sense of wrongness that Odeen should try to lie to her. Anothpr sense of wrongness that a whole world of beings should die. A third sense of wrongness that it was so easy for her to learn and that she had never been allowed to.  Since that time in the rock she had gone twice more to the Hard Caverns. Twice more, unnoticed, she had buried herself in rock, and each time she sensed and knew -- so that when Odeen would explain matters to her she knew in advance what he would explain. Why couldn't they teach her, then, as they had taught Odeen? Why only the Rationals? Did she possess the capacity to learn only because she was a LeftEm, a perverted Mid-ling? Then let them teach her, perversion and all. It was wrong to leave her ignorant. Finally the words of the Hard One were breaking through to her. Losten was there, but he was not speaking. A strange Hard One spoke. She did not know him. The Hard One asked, "Which of you has been in the lower caverns recently -- the Hard Caverns?" Dua was defiant. They had found her rock-rubbing and she didn't care. Let them tell everybody. She would do so herself. She said, "I have. Many times." "Alone?" asked the Hard One calmly. "Alone. Many times," snapped Dua.; Odeen muttered, "I have, of course, been to the lower caverns on occasion." The Hard One ignored Odeen. He turned to Tritt instead and asked sharply. "And you, Right?" Tritt quavered, "Yes, Hard-Sir." "Alone?" "Yes, Hard-Sir." "How often?" "Once." Dua was annoyed. Poor Tritt was in such a panic over nothing. She was ready for a confrontation. "Leave him alone," she said. "I'm the one you want." The Hard One turned slowly toward her. "For what?" he asked. "For -- whatever it is." And faced with the prospect directly, she could not bring herself to describe what she had done after all. Not in front of Odeen. "Well, we'll get to you. First, the Right. Your name is Tritt, isn't it? Why did you go to the lower caverns alone?" "To speak to Hard One Estwald, Hard-sir." Dua interrupted eagerly: "Are you Estwald?" The Hard One said briefly, "No." Odeen looked annoyed, as though it embarrassed him that Dua did not recognize the Hard One. The  Hard One asked Tritt, "What did you take from the lower caverns?" Tritt was. silent. The Hard One said without emotion. "We know you took something. We want to know if you know what it was. It could be very dangerous." Tritt was still silent and Losten interposed, saying more kindly, "Please tell us, Tritt. We know now it was you and we don't want to have to be harsh." Tritt mumbled. "I took a food-ball." "Ah." It was the first Hard One speaking. "What did you do with it?" And Tritt burst out. "It was for Dua. She wouldn't eat. It was for Dua." Dua jumped and coalesced in astonishment. The Hard One turned on her at once. "You did not know about ii?" "No." "Nor you?" To Odeen. Odeen, so motionless as to seem frozen, said, "No, Hard-Sir." For a moment the air was full of unpleasant vibration as the Hard Ones spoke to each other, ignoring the triad. Whether her sessions at rockrubbing had made her more sensitive or whether her recent storm of emotions had increased her awareness Dua could not tell, but she was catching hints -- not of words -- but of meanings. The Hard Ones had detected the loss some time ago. They had been searching quietly. They had turned to the Soft Ones as possible culprits with reluctance. They had investigated and finally focused on Odeen's triad with even greater reluctance. (Why? Dua missed that.) They had not seen how Odeen could have had the foolishness to take the thing -- or Dua the inclination. They had not thought of Tritt at all. Then the Hard One who had so far not said a word to the Soft Ones had recalled seeing Tritt in the Hard Caverns. (Of course, thought Dua -- Tritt had been there on the day she had first entered the rock. She had sensed him then. She had forgotten.) All this Dua sensed and now she turned toward Tritt, feeling mingled wonder and outrage. Losten was anxiously vibrating that no harm had been done, that Dua looked well, that what had happened was actually a useful experiment. The Hard One to whom Tritt had spoken was agreeing -- the other still exuded concern. Dua was looking at Tritt. The first Hard One said, "Where is the food-ball now, Tritt?" Tritt showed them. It was hidden effectively and the connections were clumsy but serviceable. The Hard One said, "Did you do this yourself, Tritt?" "Yes, Hard-Sir." "How did you know the method?" "I looked at how it was done in the Hard Caverns. I did it exactly the way I saw it done there." "Didn't you know you might have harmed your Mid-ling?" "I didn't -- I wouldn't -- I -- " IF Tritt seemed unable to say more for a moment. Then he managed: "It was not to hurt her. It was to feed her. I let it pour into her feeder and I decorated her feeder. I wanted her to try it and she did. She ate! For the first time in a long while she ate well. We melted." He paused, then said in a huge, tumultuous cry, "She had enough energy at last to initiate a baby-Emotional. She took Odeen's seed and passed it to me. I have it growing inside me." Dua could not speak. She withdrew and then rushed for the exit in so pell-mell a fashion that the Hard Ones could not get out of the way in time. She struck the appendage of the one in front, passing deep into it, then pulled free with a harsh sound. The Hard One's appendage fell limp and he seemed contorted with pain. Odeen tried to dodge around him to follow Dua,but the Hard One said with apparent difficulty, "Let her go for now. There is enough harm done. We will take care." #b through a nightmare. Dua was gone. The Hard Ones were gone. Only Tritt was still here -- silent. How could it have happened? How could Tritt have found his way alone to the Hard Caverns? How could he have taken a storage cell charged at the Pump and designed to yield radiation in much more concentrated form than Sunlight and dared -- Odeen would not have had the courage to chance it. How could Tritt, stumbling, ignorant Tritt have found it? Was he unusual, too? Odeen, the clever Rational -- Dua, the curious Emotional -- and Tritt, the daring Parental? He said, "How could you do it, Tritt?" Tritt retorted hotly, "What did I do? I fed her. I fed her better than she hadever been fed before. Now we have a baby-Emotional initiated at last. Haven't we waited long enough? We would have waited forever if we had waited for Dua." "But don't you understand, Tritt? You might have hurt her. It wasn't ordinary Sunlight. It was an experimental radiation formula that could have been too concentrated to be safe." "I don't understand what you're saying, Odeen. How could it do harm? I tasted the kind of food the Hard Ones made before. It tasted bad. You've tasted it, too. It tasted just awful and it never hurt us. It tasted so bad, Dua wouldn't touch it. Then I came on the food-ball. It tasted good. I ate some and it was delicious. How can anything delicious hurt? Dua ate it. She liked it. And it started the baby-Emotional. How can I have done wrong?" Odeen despaired of explaining. He said, "Dua is going to be very angry." "She'll get over it." "I wonder. Tritt, she's not like ordinary Emotionals. That's what makes her so hard to live with, but so wonderful when we can live with her. She may never want to melt with us again. And then what?" Tritt's outline was sturdily planesurfaced. He asked, "Well, what of it?" "What of it? Do you want to give up melting?" "No, but if she won't she won't. I have my third baby and I don't care any more. I know all about the Soft Ones in the old days. They used to have two triad-births sometimes. But I don't care. One is plenty." "But, Tritt, babies aren't all there is to melting." "What else? I heard you say once you learned faster after you melted. Then learn slower. I don't care. I have my third baby." Odeen turned away trembling and flowed jerkily out of the chamber. What was the use of scolding Tritt? Tritt wouldn't understand. He wasn't sure he himself understood. Once the third baby was born and grown a little, the time would come to pass on. He, Odeen, would have to give the signal, would have to say when -- and it would have to be done without fear. Anything else would be a disgrace -- or worse -- yet he would not be able to face the event without melting even when all three children had been formed. Melting would eliminate the fear -- maybe because melting was like passing on. There was a period of time when you were not conscious, yet it did not hurt. It was like not existing and yet it was desirable. With, enough melting he could gain the courage to pass on without fear and without... Oh, Sun and all the stars, it wasn't "passing on." Why use that phrase so solemnly? He knew the other word that was never used except by children who wanted to shock their elders. The word wa dying. He had to get ready to die without fear and to have Dua and Tritt die with him. And he did not know how. Not without melting. #c room, frightened, but sturdily resolved to remain unmoved. He had his third baby. He could feel it within him. That was what counted. That was all that counted. Why, then, deep inside, did he have a stubborn, faint feeling that it was not all that counted? #a  D UA was ashamed almost beyond endurance. It took a long time for her to battle down that shame -- battle it down enough to give herself room to think. She had hastened -- moving blindly -- away from the horror of the home cavern, scarcely caring that she did not know where she was going or even where she was. It was night, a time when no decent Soft One would be on the surface, not even the most frivolous Emotional. It would be quite a while before the Sun rose. Dua was glad. The Sun was food and at the moment she hated food and what had been done to her. IF It was cold, too, but Dua was only distantly aware of it. Why should she care about cold, she wondered, when she had been fattened in order that she might do her duty -- fattened, mind and body? After that, cold and starvation had become her friends. She saw through Tritt. Poor thing -- his actions were motivated by pure instinct and he was to be praised that he had followed through so bravely. He had come back so daringly from the Hard Caverns with the food-ball (and she had sensed him and would have known what was happening if Tritt had not been so paralyzed at what he was doing that he had not dared to think of it -- and if she had nQt been so paralyzed at what she was doing that she had been unable to sense what she most needed to know.) Tritt had brought the food-ball back undetected and had arranged the pitiful booby-trap, decorating her feeder to entice her. And she had come back, flushed with awareness of her rock-probing thinness, filled with the shame of it and with pity for Tritt. With all that shame and pity she had eaten and had helped to intiate conception. Clever Odeen, she thought, must have seen through Tritt's plan, must have spied the new connections to the electrodes, must have understood Tritt's purpose. Probably he had said nothing to Tritt. To do so would have embarrassed and frightened the poor Right-ling and Odeen always watched over Tritt with loving care. Odeen had needed to say nothing. He needed only to fill in the gaps in Tritt's clumsy plan to make it work. Dua was under no illusions now. She would have detected the taste of the food-ball, noticed its extraordinary tang, caught the rapidity with which it had begun to satisfy her while giving her no sensations of fullness -- had it not been for Odeen's occupying her with talk. It had been a conspiracy between the two of them, whether Tritt had been consciously part of it or not. How could she have believed that Odeen was suddenly a careful, painstaking teacher? How could she have failed to see the ulterior motive? Their concern for her was their concern for the completion of the new triad -- and that in itself was an indication of how little they thought of her. S HE paused long enough to feel her own weariness and worked herself into a crevice in the rock that would shield her from the thin, cold wind. Two of the seven stars were in her field of vision and she watched them absently, occupying her outer senses with trivia so that she might concentrate the more in internal thought. "Betrayed," she whispered to herself. "Betrayed!" Could Odeen and Tritt not see beyond themselves? see all destroyed if he were but secure in his babies was comprehensible. He was a creature of instinct. But what of Odeen? Odeen reasoned. Did his talent mean that for the purpose of exercising his reason he would sacrifice all else? Was its own excuse for being -- at any cost -- the sole product of reason? Because Estwald had devised that so-called Positron Pump, did it have to be used in order that the beings of a whole world, Hard and Soft alike, be placed at its mercy -- and at that of the beings of the other-Universe? What if the other-beings stopped and the world was left without the Pump and with a dangerously cooled Sun? No, they wouldn't stop, those other-beings. They had been persuaded to start and they would be persuaded to keep going until they were destroyed -- and then they would be needed no longer by the Rationals, Hard or Soft -- just as she, Dua, would have to pass on (be destroyed) now that she was needed no longer. She and the other-beings were both being betrayed. Almost without being aware of doing so, she was cushioning deeper and deeper into the rock. She buried herself out of sight of the stars, out of touch with the wind, unaware of the world. She was pure thought. Estwald was the one she hated. He was the personification of all that was selfish and hard. He had devised the Pump and would destroy a whole world of perhaps tens of thousands without conscience. He was so withdrawn that he never made his appearance and so powerful that even the other Hard Ones seemed afraid of him. Well, then, she would fight him. She would stop him. The beings of the other-Universe had assisted in setting up the Positron Pump through communications of some sort. Odeen had mentioned those. Where would such communications be kept? What would they be like? How could they be used for further communication? It was remarkable how clearly she could think. Remarkable. There was fierce enjoyment in this, that she would use reason to overcome the cruel reasoners. They would not be able to stop her for she could go where no Hard One could go, where no Rational or Parental could -- and where no other Emotional would. She might be caught eventually, but at the moment she didn't care. She was going to fight to have her way -- at any price -- though to do so meant she would have to go through rock, live in rock, skirt the Hard Caverns, steal food from their stored energy cells when she had to, flock with the other Emotionals and feed on Sunlight when she could. But in the end she would teach them all a lesson and after that they could do as they wished. She would even be ready to pass on then -- but only then. #b new baby-Emotional was born, perfect in every way, but he had not been able to feel enthusiasm over it. Even Tritt, who cared for it perfectly, as a Parental must, seemed subdued in his ecstasies. IF A long time had passed and it was as though Dua had vanished. She had not passed on... A Soft One could not pass on except when the whole triad did -- but she was not with the triad either. It was as though she had passed on without passing on. Odeen had seen her once, only once, not very long after her wild flight on the news that she had initiated the new baby. He had passed a cluster of Emotionals Sunning themselves when he had been moving over the surface with some foolish notion that he might find her. They had tittered at the rare sight of a Rational moving in the vicinity of an Emotional cluster and had thinned in mass provocation, with no thought among the foolish lot of them but to advertise the fact that they were Emotionals. Odeen felt only contempt for them and there was no answering stir along his own smooth curves at all. He thought of Dua instead and of how different she was from all of them. Dua never thinned for any reason other than her own inner needs. She had never tried to attract anyone and was the more attractive for that. If she could have brought herself to join the flock of empty-heads she would be easily recognized (he felt sure) by the fact that she alone would not thin -- but would probably thicken precisely because the others thinned. As the thought struck him Odeen scanned the Sunning Emotionals and noted that one indeed had not thinned. He stopped, then hastened toward her, oblivious to the Emotionals in his way, disregarding their wild screeching as they flicked smokily out of his path and chattered desperately in their attempts to avoid coalescing one with the other right out in the open and with a Rational watching. It was Dua. She did not try to leave. She kept her ground and said nothing. "Dua," he said humbly, "aren't you coming home?" "I have no home, Odeen," she said. Not angrily, not in hate -- and all the more dreadfully for that reason. "How can you blame Tritt for what he did, Dua? You know the poor fellow can't reason." "But you can, Odeen, And you occupied my mind while he arranged to feed my body, didn't you? Your reason told you that I was much more likely to be trapped by you, than by him." "Dua, no!" "No, what? Didn't you make a big show of teaching me, of educating me?" "I did, but it wasn't a show -- it was real. And it was not because of what Tritt had done. I didn't know what Tritt had done." "I can't believe that." She flowed away without haste. He followed her. They were alone now, the Sun shining redly down upon them. She turned to him. "Let me ask you one question, Odeen? Why did you want to teach me?" Odeen said, "Because I wanted to. Because I enjoy teaching and because I would rather teach than do anything else -- but learn." "And melt, of course. Never mind," she added to ward him off. "Don't explain that you are talking of reason and not of instinct. If you really mean what you say about enjoying teaching -- if I can really believe what you say -- then perhaps you can understand something I'm going to tell you. I've been learning a great deal since I left you, Odeen. Never mind how. I have. There's no Emotional left in me at all, except physiologically. Inside, where it counts, I'm all Rational, except that I hope I have more feeling for others than Rational have. And one thing I've learned is what ' we really are, Odeen -- you and I and Tritt and all the other triads on this planet -- what we really are and always "What is that?" asked Odeen. as long as might be necessary -- and as quietly -- if only she would come back with him when she had said her say. He would perform any penance, do anything that might be required. Only she must come back -- and something dim and dark inside him knew that she had to come back voluntarily. "What we are? Why, nothing, really, Odeen," she said lightly, almost laughing. "Isn't that strange? The Hard Ones are the only living species on the face of the world. Haven't they taught you that? There is only one species because you and I, the Soft Ones, are not really alive. We're machines, Odeen. We must be because only the Hard Ones are alive. Haven't they taught you that, Odeen?" "But, Dua, that's nonsense," said Odeen, nonplused. Dua's voice grew harsher. "Machines, Odeen! Made by the Hard Ones! Destroyed by the Hard Ones! They are alive, the Hard Ones. Only they. They don't talk about it much. They don't have to. They all know it. But I've learned to think, Odeen, and I've worked it out from the small clues I've found. They live tremendously long lives, but die eventually. They no longer give birth -- the Sun yields too little energy for that. And since they die very infrequently, but don't give birth at all, their numbers are very slowly declining. And there are no young ones to provide new blood and new thoughts so the old, longlived Hard Ones get terribly bored. So what do you suppose they do, Odeen?" "What?" There, was a kind of fascination about this. A repulsive fascination. "They manufacture mechanical children whom they can teach. You said it yourself, Odeen. You would rather teach than do anything else but learn. And melt, of course. The Rationals are made in the mental image of the Hard Ones. The Hard Ones don't melt and learning is terribly complex for them since they already know so much. What is left for them but the fun of teaching? Rationals were created for no purpose but to be taught. Emotionals and Parentals were created because they were necessary for the self-perpetuating machinery that made new Rationals. And new Rationals were needed IF constantly because the old ones were used up, were taught all they could be taught. And when old Rationals had absorbed what they could they were destroyed and were taught, in advance, to call the destruction process "passing on" to spare their feelings. And of course, Emotronals and Parentals passed on with them. As long as they had helped form a new triad there was no further use for them." "But that's all wrong, Dua," Odeen managed to say. He had no arguments to pose against her nightmare scheme, but he knew with a certainty past argument that she was wrong. (Or did a little pang of doubt deep inside him suggest that the certainty might have been implanted in him to begin with? No, surely no -- for then, would not Dua be implanted with a certainty, too, that this was wrong? Or was she an imperfect Emotional without the proper implantations and without -- Oh, what was he thinking? He was as crazy as she.) Dua said, "You look upset, Odeen. Are you sure I'm all wrong? Of course, now the Hard Ones have the Pump and all the energy they need. Soon they will be giving birth again. Maybe they are doing so already. And they won't need any Soft-One machines at all and we will all be destroyed -- I beg pardon, we will all pass on." "No, Dua," said Odeen strenuously as much to himself as to her. "I don't know how you got those notions, but the Hard Ones aren't like that. We are not destroyed." "Don't lie to yourself, Odeen. They are like that. They are prepared to destroy a whole world of other-beings for their benefit, a whole Universe if they have to. Would they stop at destroying a few Soft Ones for their comfort? But they made one mistake. Somehow the machinery went wrong and a Rational mind got into an Emotional body. I'm a Left-Em, do you know that? They called me that when I was a child and they were right. I can reason like a Rational and I can feel like an Emotional. And I will fight the Hard Ones with that combination." Odeen felt wild. Dua must surely be mad, yet he dared not say so. He had to cajole her somehow and bring her back. He said with sincerity, "Dua, we're not destroyed when we pass on." "No? What does happen then?" "I -- I don't know. I think we enter another world, a better and happier world and become like -- like -- well, much better than we are." Dua laughed. "Where did you hear that? Did the Hard Ones tell you that?" "No, Dua. I'm sure that this must be so out of my own thoughts. I've been thinking a great deal since you left." Dua said, "Then think less and you'll be less foolish. Poor Odeen! Goodbye." She flowed away once more, thinly. There was an air of weariness about her. Odeen called out, "But wait, Dua. Surely you want to see your new baby-mid." She did not answer. He cried out, "When will you come home?" She did not answer. And he followed no more, but looked after her in deepest misery as she dwindled. seen Dua. What was the use? Nor did he see her again. He began haunting the favored Sunning sites of the Emotionals of the region, doing so even though occasional Parentals emerged to watch him in stupid suspicion (Tritt was a mental giant compared to most Parentals). The lack of her hurt more with each passing day. And with each passing day he realized that there was a gathering fright inside himself over her absence. He didn't know why. He came back to the home cavern one day to find Losten waiting for him. Losten was standing, grave and polite, while Tritt was showing him the new baby and striving to keep the handful of mist from touching the Hard One. Losten said, "It is indeed a beauty, Tritt. Derala is its name?" "Derola," Tritt corrected. "I don't know when Odeen will be back. He wanders about a lot." "Here I am, Losten," said Odeen hastily. "Tritt, take the baby away, there's a good fellow." Tritt did so and Losten turned to Odeen with quite obvious relief, saying, "You must be very happy to have completed the triad." Odeen tried to answer with some polite inconsequence, but could maintain only a miserable silence. He had recently been developing a kind of comradeship, a vague sense of equality with the Hard Ones that enabled them to talk together on a leyel. Somehow Dua's madness had spoiled it. Odeen knew she was wrong and yet he approached Losten once more as stiffly as in the long-gone days when he had thought of himself as a creature far inferior to them -- as a machine? Losten asked, "Have you seen Dua?" The question was real, not mere politeness, Odeen could tell. "Only once, H -- " (He almost said "Hard-Sir" as though he were a child again or a Parental). "Only once, Losten. She won't come home." "She must come home," said Losten softly." "I don't know how to arrange that." Losten regarded him somberly. "Do you know what she is doing?" Odeen did not dare to look at the Hard One. Had Losten discovered Dua's wild theories? What would be done about that? He made a negative sign without speaking. Losten said, "She is a most unusual Emotional, Odeen. We have spoken of that." "Yes." Odeen sighed. "As unusual as you are in your way and Tritt in his. I doubt that any other Parental in the world would have had either the courage or the initiative to steal an energy storage cell or the perverse ingenuity to put it to use as he did. The three of you make up the most unique triad of which we have any record." "Thank you." IF "But there are uncomfortable aspects to the triad, too, things we didn't count on. We wanted you to teach her by way of cajoling her into performing her function in the triad. We did not count on Tritt's quixotic action at just that moment. Nor, to tell you the truth, did we count on her wild reaction to the fact that the world in the other-Universe must be destroyed." "I ought to have been careful how I answered her questions," said Odeen miserably. "Caution would not have helped. She was finding out for herself. We didn't count on that either. Odeen, I am sorry, but I must tell you this -- Dua has become a deadly danger. She is trying to stop the Positron Pump." "But how can she? She can't reach it -- and even if she could she lacks the knowledge to do, anything about it." "Oh, but she can reach it." Losten hesitated, then said, "She remains infused in; the rock of the world where she is safe from us." It took a while for Odeen to grasp the clear meaning of the words. He said, "No grown Emotional would -- Dua would never -- " "She would. She does. Don't waste time arguing the point. She can penetrate anywhere in the caverns. Nothing is hidden from her. She has studied those communications we have received from the other-Universe. There is no other way of explaining what is happening." "Oh, oh, oh." Odeen rocked back and forth, his surface opaque with shame and grief. "Does Estwald know anything of all this?" Losten said, grimly, "Not yet, though he must know some day." "But what will she do with those communications?" "She is ifsing them to work out a method for sending some of her own in the other direction." "But she cannot know how to translate or transmit." "She is learning both. She knows more about those communications than Estwald himself. She is a frightening phenomenon, an Emotional who can reason and who is out of control." Odeen shivered. Out of control? How machinelike a reference? He said, "It can't be that bad." v "It can. She has communicated already and I fear she is advising the other-Universe creatures to stop their half of the Pump. If they do so before their Sun explodes we will be helpless at this end." "But then -- " "She must be stopped, Odeen." "But, how? Are you going to blast -- " His voice failed. Dimly he knew that the Hard One had devices for digging caverns out of the world's rock, devices scarcely used since the world's population had begun declining ages ago. Would they locate Dua in the rock and blast it and her? "No," said Losten forcefully. "We cannot harm Dua." "Estwald might -- " "Estwald cannot harm her either." "Then what's to be done?" "It's you, Odeen. Only you. We're helpless, so we must depend oh you." . #  "On me? But what can I do?" "Think about it," said Losten urgently. "Think about it." "Think about what?" "I can't say more than that," said Losten in apparent agony. "Think! There is so little time." He turned and left, moving rapidly for a Hard One, moving as though he did not trust himself to stay and perhaps say too much. And Odeen could only look after him, dismayed, confused -- lost. #c Tritt to do. Babies required much care, but two you.ng lefts and two young rights together did not make up the sum of a single babymid -- particularly not a mid as perfect as Derola. She had to be exercised and soothed, protected from percolating into whatever she touched, cajoled into condensing and resting. It was a long time before he saw Odeen again and actually he didn't care. Derola took up all his time. But' then he came across Odeen in the corner of his own alcove, iridescent with thought. Tritt remembered suddenly. He asked, "Was Losten angry about Dua?" Odeen came to himself with a start "Losten? Yes, he was angry. Dua is doing great harm." "She should come home,shouldn't she?" Odeen was staring at Tritt. He said, "We're going to have to persuade Dua to come home. We must find her first. You can do it. With a new baby your Parental sensitivity is very high. You can use it to find Dua." "No," said Tritt, shocked. "It's used for Derola. It would be wrong to use it for Dua. Besides, if she wants to stay away so long when a baby-mid is longing for her -- and she once a baby-mid herself -- maybe we might just learn to do without her." "But, Tritt, don't you ever want to melt again?" "Well, the triad is now complete." "That's not all there is to melting." Tritt said, "But, where do we have to go to find her? Little Derola needs me. She's a tiny baby. I don't want to leave her." "The Hard Ones will arrange to have Derola taken care of. You and I will go to the Hard Caverns and find Dua.' Tritt thought about that. He didn't care about Dua. He didn't even care about Odeen, somehow. Only Derola mattered. He said, "Some day when Derola is older. Not till then." "Tritt," Odeen pressed urgently, "we must find Dua. Otherwise -- otherwise the babies will be taken away from us." "By whom?" "By the Hard Ones." Tritt was silent. He could find nothing to say. He had never heard of such a thing. He douid not conceive of such a thing. Odeen said, "Tritt, we must pass on. I know why at last. I've been thinking about it ever since Losten -- but never mind that. Dua and you must pass on, too. Now that I IF know why, you will feel you must and I hope -- I think -- Dua will feel she must, too. And we must pass on soon, for Dua is destroying the world." Tritt was backing away. "Don't look at me like that, Odeen. You're forcing me. You're making me -- " "I'm not forcing you, Tritt," said Odeen sadly. "It's just that I know now and so you must. But we must find Dua." "No, no." Tritt was in agony, trying to resist. There was something terribly new about Odeen and existence was approaching an end inexorably. There would be no Tritt and no baby-mid. Where every other Parental had his babymid for a long time, Tritt would have lost his almost at once. It wasn't fair. Oh, it wasn't fair. Tritt panted. "It's Dua's fault. Let her pass on first." Odeen said, with deadening calm. "There's no other way but for all of us -- " And Tritt knew that was so -- that was so -- that was so -- #a D UA felt thin and cold. Her attempts to rest in the open and absorb Sunlight had ended after Odeen had found her that time. Her feeding at the Hard Ones' energy cells was erratic. She dared not remain too long outside the safety of rock, so she ate quickly and never got enough. She was continuously conscious of hunger. To remain in the rock seemed to tire her. It was as though she were being punished for all that long time when she had haunted tne Sunset and eaten so skimpily. If it were not for the work she was doing she could not have borne the weariness and hunger. Sometimes she hoped that the Hard Ones would destroy her -- but only after she had finished. The Hard Ones were helpless as long as she was in the rock. Sometimes she sensed them in the open outside the rock. They were afraid. Sometimes she thought their fear was for her, but that couldn't be. How could they be afraid for her? Were they afraid that she would pass on out of sheer lack of food, out of sheer exhaustion? It had to be that they were afraid of her -- afraid of a machine that did not work as they had designed it to work, appalled at so great a prodigy, struck helpless with terror of it. She avoided them carefully. She always knew where they were, so they could not catch her or stop her. They could not watch all places always. She thought she couid even blank what little perception they had. She swirled out of the rock and studied the recorded duplicates of the communications they had received from the other-Universe. Jhey did not know what she was after. If they hid them, she would find them in whatever new place. If they destroyed them, it didn't matter. Dua could remember them. She did not understand them at first, but her senses grew steadily sharper -- more and more she seemed to understand without understanding. Without knowing what the symbols meant, they inspired feelings within her. She picked out markings and placed them where they would be sent to the otherUniverse. The markings were F-E-E-R. What that could possibly mean she had no idea, but its shape inspired her with a feeling of fear and she did her best to impress that feeling upon the markings. Perhaps the othercreatures, studying the markings, would also feel fear. When the answers came Dua could sense excitement in them. She did not always get the answers that were sent. Sometimes the Hard Ones found them first. Surely, they must be finding out what she was doing. Still, they could not read the messages, could not even sense the emotions that went along with them. Sq she didn't care. She would not be stopped before she finished, no matter what the Hard Ones found out. She waited for a message that would carry the feeling she wanted It came: P-U-M-P B-A-D. It carried the fear and hatred she wanted. She sent it back in extended form -- more fear -- more hatred. Now the other-beings would understand. Now they would stop the Pump. The Hard Ones would have to find some other way, some other source of energy -- they must not obtain it through the death of all those thousands of otherUniverse creatures. She was resting too much, declining into a kind of stupor within the rock. She craved food desperately and waited for a chance to crawl out. Even more desperately than she wanted the food in a storage cell she wanted that storage cell to be dead. She wanted to suck the last bit of energy out of it and know that no more would come and that her task was done. She emerged at last and remained recklessly long, sucking in the contents of one of the cells. She wanted to empty it, see that no more was entering -- but it was an endless source -- endless -- endless. She stirred and drew away in disgust. The Pump action in the Other-Universe was still going, then. Had her messages not persuaded the other-beings to stop the Pump? Had they not received her signals? Had they not sensed their meaning? She had to try again. She had to make matters plain beyond plain. She would include every combination of symbols that to her seemed to carry the feeling of danger; every combination that would put across the plea to stop. Desperately she began to fuse the symbols into metal; drawing without reserve on the energy she had just absorbed -- drawing on it till it was all gone and she was more It was all she could do. There was IF nothing left in her but a racking pain. She placed the message where it could be transferred and she did not wait for Hard Ones to send the message unwittingly. Through an agonizing haze she manipulated the controls as she had seen them do, finding the energy for it somehow. The message disappeared and so did the cavern in a purple shimmer of vertigo. She was -- passing onout of sheer -- exhaustion. Odeen -- Tri -- #bc flowing faster than he had ever flowed before. He had been following Tritt's new-baby sharpened sense perception, but pow he was close enough for his own blunter senses to detect her nearness. He could on his own account feel the flickering and fading consciousness of Dua and he raced forward while Tritt did his best to clump along, gasping and calling, "Faster -- faster -- " Odeen found her in a State of collapse, scarcely alive, smaller than he had ever seen an adult Emotional. "Tritt," he said, "Bring the foodball here. Np, don't try to carry her. She's too thin to carry. Hurry. If she sinks into the floor -- " The Hard Ones began to gather. They were late, of course, with their inability to sense other life forms at a distance. If saving Dua had depended only on them she would have perished. She would not have passed on -- she would truly have been destroyed and more than she knew would have been destroyed with her. Now, as she was slowly gathering life, the Hard Ones stood silently near them. Odeen rose, a new Odeen who knew exactly what was happening. Imperiously he ordered them away with an angry gesture -- and they left. Silently. Without objection. Dua stirred. Tritt said, "Is she all right, Odeen?" "Quiet, Tritt," said Odeen. "Dua?" "Odeen?" She stirred, spoke in a whisper. "I thought I had passed on." "Not yet, Dua. Not yet. But first you must eat and rest." "Is Tritt here, too?" "Here I am, Dua," said Tritt. "Don't try to bring me back," said Dua. "It's over. I've done what I wanted to do. All Pump action in the otherUniverse will stop soon, I'm sure -- making useless our end of the Pump. The Hard Ones will continue to need Soft Ones and they will take care of you two -- or at least the children." Odeen said nothing. He kept Tritt, too, from speaking. He let the radiation pour slowly into Dua. He stopped at times to let her rest a bit, then started again. She began to mutter, "Enough. Enough." Her substance was writhing more strongly. Still he fed her. Finally lie spoke. "Dua, you were wrong. We are not machines. I know exactly what we are. I would have come to you sooner if I had found out earlier, but I didn't know till Losten begged me to think. And I did -- very hard." Dua moaned and Odeen stopped for a while. He said, "Listen, Dua. There is a single species of life. The Hard Ones are the only living things in the world. You gathered that, and so far you were right. But that doesn't mean the Soft Ones aren't alive -- it merely means they are part of the same single species. The Soft Ones are the immature forms of the Hard Ones. We are first children as Soft Ones, then adults as Soft Ones, then Hard Ones. Do you understand?" Tritt muttered in soft confusion, "What? What?" Odeen said, "Not now, Tritt. Not now. You'll understand, too, but this is for Dua." He kept watching Dua, who was gaining opalescence. He said, "Listen, Dua, whenever we melt, whenever the triad melts, we become a Hard One. The Hard One is three-in-one, which is why he is hard. During the time of unconsciousness in melting we are a Hard One. But it is only temporary and we can never remember the period afterward. We can never stay a Hard One long -- we must come back. But all through our life we keep developing, with certain key stages marking off our growth. Each baby born marks a key stage. With the birth of the third, the Emotional, there comes the possibility of the final stage, where the Rational's mind by itself, without the other two, can remember those flashes of Hard One existence. Then, "and only then, can he guide a perfect melt that will form the Hard One forever, so that the triad can live a new and unified life of learning and intellect. I told you that passing on was like being born again. I was groping then for something I did not quite understand -- but now I know." Dua was looking at him, trying to smile. She asked, "How can you pretend to believe that,Odeen? If that were so, wouldn't the Hard Ones have told you long ago -- told all of us?" "They couldn't, Dua. There was a time, long ages ago, when melting was just a putting together of the atoms of bodies. But evolution slowly developed minds. Listen to me, Dua. Melting is a putting together of the minds, too, and that's a much harder, a much more delicate process. To put them together properly and permanently, just so, the Rational must reach a certain pitch in development. That pitch is reached when he finds out for himself what it's all about -- when his mind is finally keen enough to remember what has happened in all those temporary unions during melting. If the Rational were told, that development would be aborted and the time of the perfect melt could not be determined. The Hard One would form imperfectly. When Losten pleaded with me to think he was taking a great chance. Even that may have been -- I hope not what I'm thinking. For its especially true in our case, Dua. For many generations, the Hard Ones IF have ben combining triads with great care to form particularly advanced Hard Ones and our triad was the best they'd ever obtained. Especially you, Dua. Especially you. Losten was once the Rational of the triad whose baby-mid you were. He knew you. He brought you to Tritt and me." Dua sat up. Her voice was almost normal. "Odeen -- are you making all this up to soothe me?" Tritt broke in. "No, Dua. I feel it, too. I feel it, too. I don't know what exactly -- but I feel it." "He does, Dua," said Odeen. "You will, too. Aren't you beginning to recall being a Hard One during our melt? Don't you want to melt now? One last time?" ' He lifted her. There was a feverishness about her and, though she struggled a bit, she was thinning. "If what you say is true, Odeen," she gasped. "If we are to be a Hard One -- then it seems to me you are saying we'll be an important one. Is that so?" "The most important. The best who was ever formed. I mean that. Tritt; it's not goodbye. We'll be together as we always wanted to be. Dua, too. You, too, Dua." Dua said. "Then we can make Estwald understand the Pump can't continue. We'll force -- " The melting was beginning. One by one the Hard Ones were entering again at the crucial moment. Odeen saw them imperfectly, for he was beginning to melt into Dua. It was not like the other times. He was aware of no sharp ecstasy -- just a smooth, cool, utterly peaceful movement. He could feel himself become partly Dua and all the world seemed pouring into his her sharpening senses. The Positron Pumps were still going -- he she could tell -- why were they still going? He was Tritt, too, and a keen sense of bitter loss filled hisher his mind. Oh, my babies... He cried out, uttered one last cry under the consciousness of Odeen, except that somehow it was the cry of Dua. "No, we can't stop Estwald. We are Estwald. We -- " The cry that was Dua's and yet not Dua's stopped and there was no longer any Dua -- nor would there ever be Dua again. Or Odeen. Or Tritt. #abc Estwald stepped forth and said sadly to the waiting Hard Ones by way of vibrating airwaves, "I am permanently with you now and there is much to do -- "  The first installment of The Gods Themselves appears in the March-April issue of The third and concluding installment will which will go on sale March #. The reasons for dividing the novel in such fashion are first installment. If your dealer cannot supply you with any of these copies, you may order directly from us, remitting #c for each. We pay postage on all orders. The Rat would be home safe -- if yesterday he had not died! I in St. Paul's Cathedral in the year # a.d., alone and welded to a steel post and soon to vanish with the world outside -- which had already become nonexistent? Not many people can answer yes to that question -- but I can. I can't really say that I enjoy the distinction. I must further admit that I had never been happier to see my wife. "Angelina, truly named," I said as, light as a falling leaf, she drifted down to the floor. "You descend from above to save me." She opened the faceplate of her spacesuit wider so she could kiss me through the opening, then took an atomic lance from her belt and began to cut away my chains. "Now tell me what all this timetravel nonsense is about. And talk fast. We have only seven minutes -- at least that is what Coypu said." "What else did he tell you?" I asked, wondering just how much she knew. "Stop being mysterious with me, Slippery Jim diGriz! I've had enough of that with Coypu." I jumped back hastily as she waved the atomic lance under my chin. Then I beat out the fire she had started on my garments. An angry Angelina can be quite dangerous. "My love," I said emotionally, attempting to embrace her While keeping an eye on the lance at the same time. "I conceal nothing from you -- nothing! I know better. It is just that my brain is tied in knots and I want to know where your knowledge leaves off before I continue with the complete story." "You know perfectly well that I talked to you last on the phone. Big rush, you said, top priority, get over fast you shouted -- then rang off. So I rushed to Copyu's lab. Everyone was running around playing with the machinery and too busy to tell me anything. Back in time, they shouted when I asked where you were. Nothing else. And that horrid Inskipp was no better. He said you vanished -- just vanished out of his office -- while he was reading the riot act to you. Apparently he found out about that little bit of money you are putting aside for a rainy decade or two. There was a lot of babble about your saving the world or the galaxy or something -- I couldn't understand a word of it. And all of this went on for a very long time -- until they could send me back here." "Well, I did save the world" I said modestly. "Saved you, saved the Corps, saved the whole thing." "I was right. You have been drinking." "Not in entirely too long a time," I muttered petulantly. "If you want to know the truth you all vanished, poof  just like that. Coypu was the last one to go so he can tell you about it. The Corps, everyone, they were never born, never existed except in my memory -- " "My memory is slightly different." "It would be. Since through my efforts He's evil plan was foiled -- " "His not he's. All that drinking has affected your speech." " He is his name -- and I haven't had a drop in hours! Can you possibly listen without interrupting? This story is complicated enough in any case -- " "Complicated and possibly alcoholically inspired." at length and more warmly this time, a distraction we both enjoyed. This softened her a bit so I rushed on before she remembered that she was supposed to be angry at me. "A time attack was launched against the Special Corps, and Professor Coypu whisked me back in time to foil the nefarious scheme. I did all right in nineteen seventyfive but He got away, went back to whenever he came from, then set up an elaborate trap here in eighteen hundred and seven to trap me. Which he did. But his plans didn't work completely because I managed to change the setting on the time helix so he was sent to a different time from where he had intended to go. This must have defeated his plans -- since you IF managed to get here to rescue me' "Oh, darling, how wonderful of you. I knew you could save the world if you really tried." Mercurial, I guess, is the word for my Angelina. She kissed me with what can only be described as true passion and I, clanking my lengths of chain, got my arms around her in happy response. But she squawked and straight-armed me. I reeled back, choking. "The time!" She looked at her watch and gasped. "You made me forget. There is less than a minute left. Where is the time helix?" "Here." Hugging my still painful midriff I showed her the machine. "And the controls?" "These." "How ugly. Where's readout?" "These dials." "This is the setting we must use, down to the thirteenth decimal position, Coypu said -- he was most, insistent about that." I played the keys like a mad pianist and sweated. The dials spun and hesitated, then gyrated wildly. "Thirty seconds," Angelina said sweetly to encourage me. "There!" I gasped as she announced ten seconds. I kicked in the timer and threw the master switch. The time helix glowed greenly at us as we rushed to its protruding end. "Stay close and hug me as hard as you can," I said. "The time field has a surface effect so we must stay close -- " She responded with pleasure. "I only wish I weren't wearing this silly spacesuit," she whispered, nibbling my ear. "It would be so much more fun." "It might be, but it might also be a little embarrassing when we arrived back at the Special Corps in that condition." "Don't worry about that. We're not going back yet." I felt a sudden stab of anxiety just below my sternum. "What do you mean? Where are we going?" "I'm sure I wouldn't know. All Coypu said was that the hop would be about twenty thousand years into the future, to the moment just before this planet is to be destroyed." "He and'his mad mob again," I wailed. "You've just sent us off to tackle an entire planetary insane asylum -- where everyone is against us!" Everything froze as the time helix actuated and I was whipped into time with a pained expression on my face. That expression lasted # years, which was exactly how it felt. steam bath -- and falling was the right word. Hot clouds of vapor rushed past us and the invisible surface could be ten "meters or ten miles below us. "Switch on your grav-chute," I shouted. "Mine's back in the nonexistent nineteenth century." Perhaps I shouldn't have shouted. Angelina turned the thing on at full lift and slithered up out of my fond embrace like an oiled eel. I clutched madly and managed to grab one of her feet with both hands -- whereupon the boot part of the one-piece spacesuit promptly came off her foot. "I wish you wouldn't do that," she called down to me. "I agree with you completely," I answered through clamped and grating teeth. The suit stretched and stretched until the leg was twice its normal length and I bobbed up and on down as though on the end of a rubber band. I took a quick look down, but only fog was visible below. Spacesuit fabric is tough, but it was never designed to take the strain I was putting on Angelina's. Something had to be done. "Cut your lift," I called out and Angelina responded instantly. We were in free fall and as soon as the tension was relieved the leg fabric contracted and snapped me back up to Angelina's waiting arms. "Yum," I said. She looked down and shrieked and hit the grav-chute power again. This time I wasn't ready and I slipped right down and out of her embrace and was falling toward the solid looking landscape that had suddenly appeared below. In the small fraction of a second left to me I did what little I could -- twisting in the air, spreading my arms and legs wide, trying to land square on my back. I had almost succeeded when I hit. Everything went black. I was sure I was dead. Before the darkness overwhelmed my brain my last thought flashed before me -- not only did I not regret anything I had ever done but there were a few things I wished I had done more often, I could not have been unconscious more than a few instants. Foul-tasting mud filled my mouth and I spluttered it out, rubbed more of it from my eyes and looked around. I was floating in a sea of mud and water from which large bubbles rose and broke with slow plops. They stank. Sickly looking reeds and water plants grew on all sides. "Alive!" I shouted, "I am alive." I had struck fiat out on the syrupy surface and felt some aches and bruises, but nothing seemed to be broken. "It looks very nasty down there," Angelina said, hovering a few feet above my head. "It's just as nasty as it looks so, if you don't mind, I would like to get out of it. Can you sort of drop down so I can grab your ankles which will permit ydu to drag me out with a wet sucking sound?" it was as the decaying quagIF mire fought to hold onto me, parting with me only reluctantly and with a slobbering sigh. I hung from my love's ankles as we drifted over an apparently endless swamp which vanished in the fog in all directions. "There -- over to the right," I called out. "Looks like a channel with running water. I think a wash and brush-up is in order." "Since I am upwind of you I couldn't agree more." The current was moving slowly, but still moving; I could tell by a treetrunk that drifted by. Into the middle of the sluggish stream reached a golden sandbar that seemed made for us. I dropped as Angelina came low and even before she had settled down herself I was out of my noisome garb and scrubbing the muck off in the water. When I bobbed up, spluttering, I saw that she had peeled out of her spacesuit and was combing out her long hair, which happened to be blond at the moment. Very lovely, and I was thinking the most romantic thoughts when fierce fire pierced my gluteus maximus and I shot straight up out of the water, yiping like a dog whose tail has been caught in the door. As attractive and feminine as she was, Angelina was still Angelina and the comb vanished to be replaced by a gun and, almost before I touched the sand, she had fired a single, precisely aimed shot. While she was applying a bandage to the double row of toothmarks in my derriere I looked at the fish, somewhat blown apart but still twitching, that had mistaken me for lunch. Its gaping mouth had more teeth than a dental supply house and there was a definitely evil look in its rapidly clouding eye. Grabbing it by the tail to evade its still gnashing jaws, I threw it far out into the water. This started a tremendous flurry of action under the surface and from the size of some of the things that leaped ojjt and smacked back down I saw that I had been attacked by one of the smaller ones. "Twenty thousand years has done no good at all to this planet," I said. "Finish rinsing off that mud and I'll stand guard. Then we'll have some lunch." Ever the practical woman. While I scrubbed she shot up the piscatorial predators who came after me, including one large fish with fat flanks and rudimentary legs that waddled out of the water in an attempt to have me for lunch. We had it#nstead. The flanks concealed some fine thick filets that roasted well over a low-set heat projector. Angelina had had the foresight to bring a flask of my favorite wine and the meal became a memorable one. I sighed, eructated and wiped my lips with satisfaction. "You have saved my life more than once in the last twenty thousand years," I said. "So I no longer am brimful of anger for being whisked to this steam-bath world rather than back to the Corps. But can you at least tell me what happened and what Coypu told you?" "He tends to mumble a good deal, but I got the gist of it. He has been working on his time-tracker or whatever he calls it and followed your jumps through time as well as those of someone he referred to as the enemy -- the one you call He. The enemy did something with time, created a probability loop that lasted about five years, then terminated. He left this collapsing loop -- and you didn't. That's why Coypu sent me back to the minutes just before it ended -- to bring you out. He gave me the setting for the time helix that would enable us to follow He to this time. I asked him what we were supposed to 'do here but he kept muttering, Paradox , paradox... and wouldn't tell me. Do you have any idea of what is supposed to happen." "Simple enough. Find He and kill him. That should put paid to the entire operation. I've had two tries at him -- shooting once and using thermite bombs the second time -- and haven't succeeded. Maybe this will be lucky three." "Perhaps you ought to let me take care of him," Angelina offered kindly. "A fine idea. We'll blast him together. I have had just about enough of this temporal paper chase." "How do we find him?" "Simplicity itself, if you have a time-energy detector with you." She had one through Coypu' s foresight and passed it over. "A simple flick of this switch and the moving needle points to our man." The switch flicked but did nothing more than release a little condensed water that ran out into my palm. "It doesn't seem to be working," Angelina said, smiling sweetly. "Either that or He is not using the time helix at this particular moment." I rummaged in my equipment. "I had to leave my spacesuit and some other things back in eighteen-oh-seven, but Slippery Jim is never without his snooper." had designed it myself and it was one of the few things He hadn't taken from me. Rugged, it could resist almost anything except being dropped into molten metal. Compact, no bigger than my hand. And it could detect the weakest flickerings of radiation across a tremendous range of frequencies. I turned it on and ran my fingers over the familiar controls. "Most interesting," I said and tried the radio frequencies. "If you don't enlighten me quickly I'll never save your life again." IF "You have to because you love me with an undying passion. I get two sources, one weak and very distant. The other can't be too far and is putting out on a number of frequencies, including atomic radiation and energy transmission, as well as a lot of radio. And something of more pressing urgency. Get out the sunburn cream -- solar ultraviolet radiation is right up at the top of the scale. You can bet I've been well cooked already." We creamed and, despite the heat, put on enough clothing to shield us from the invisible radiation that was pouring out of the clouded sky. "Strange things have ' happened to the Earth," I said. "The radiation, this soggy climate, the wildlife in this river. I wonder -- " "I don't. After completing the mission you can do your paleogeologic research. Let's kill He first." "Spoken like a pro. I hope you don't mind if I rig a harness so we can share the benefit of the gravchute equally this time?" "Sounds like fun," she said, loosening the straps. The airborne Siamese Jwin arrangement lifted and took us low over the sea of gunk in the direction of all the activity. Mud and swamp continued for a boringly long time and I was beginning to chafe in the straps and worry about the power supply when the higher larid finally appearedr First some rocks sticking out of the water, then sheer cliffs greeted us. It took more juice to lift us up the side of these and the indicator on the power pack dropped quickly. "We are going to have to walk soon," I said, "which is at least better than swimming." "Not if the land animals match those in the water." Ever optimistic my Angelina. As I was phrasing a witty and scathing reply there was a flash of light from the rampart of rocks ahead, followed instantly by an intense pain in my leg. "I've been shot!" I shouted, more in surprise than pain, reaching for the grav-chute controls and finding that Angelina had already killed the power. We dropped toward a wicked jumple of rocks, slowing and stopping only at the last minute. I hopped on one leg to the shelter of an overhanging slab and was thinking of digging out my medikit when Angelina sprayed antiseptic on the wound tore half of my pants leg away, injected instant painkiller in my thigh and probed the gory opening. She was ahead of me with everything and I didn't mind in the slightest. "A neat penetrating wound," she announced, spraying on surgifoam. "Should heal quickly, no problem. Keep your weight off it. Now I have to kill whoever did it." XX down and before I could answer she had her gun in her hand and had faded silently into the rocky landscape. There is nothing like having a loving and tender wife who is a cool and accomplished killer. Maybe I wore the pants in the family, but we both wore guns. Not too long after this came the sound of explosions, a great clattering in the rocks above and, soon after that, some hoarse screams that soon ended in silence. It is a tribute to Angelina's prowess that I never for a second was concerned about her safety. In fact, I dozed off under the assault of the drugs coursing through my bloodstream and awoke only when I was aware of tugging on the grav-chute harness. I yawned and blinked at her as she buckled in beside me. "Am I allowed to ask what happened?" I said. She frowned. "Just one man up there. I couldn't find any others. I saw a farm building of sorts, some machinery, crops growing. I must be slipping. I knocked him out, then could not bring myself to shoot him while he was lying there unconscious." I kissed her as we rose. "A conscience, my sweet. Some of us are born with them, yours was surgically implanted. The results are the same." "I'm not really sure I like it. There was a certain freedom in the old days." "We all have to be civilized some time." She sighed and nodded, then gave me a quick peck on the cheek. "I suppose you are right. But it would have been so satisfying to blow him into small pieces." We were over the last of the tumbled scree now and ascending a small cliff. We came to a plateau, on which was a low building made of stones cemented together. The door was open and I hobbled through it, leaning on Angelina's shoulder. Dim light through the small windows revealed a large and cluttered room with two bunks against the far wall. On one of them lay a bound man twisting, and turning, mumbling and growling into a gag that sealed his mouth. "You get into the other bed," Angelina told me, "while I see if I can get any intelligence out of this awful creature." I had actually taken the first steps toward the bunk before reason penetrated my soggy thoughts and I stopped dead. "Beds. Two of them? There must be someone else around the place." Whatever answer was on her lips was never spoken because a man appeared in the doorway behind us, shouting noisily and firing an even noisier weapon. II because the weapon was blown from his hands even as he IF triggered it, and an instant later he was blown back out of the doorway. I saw all this as I dived and rolled. I had my gun out just an Angelina was putting hers away. "Now that is more like it," she sakl, apparently addressing the silent pair of boots in the doorway. "Civilized conscience or no, I find that shooting in self-defense still comes easily. I .saw this one out among the rocks, stalking us as we came in, but I never had a clear shot. Everything should be quietef now. I'll make some warm soup and you take a nice nap -- " "No." I doubt if a firmer no had ever been spoken. I popped out a pair of stimtabs and chewed them as I continued my monologue in the same tone of voice. "There is a certain retrogressive pleasure in being cared for and treated like an idiot child, but I think I have had enough of it. I have tackled He before this and chased him out of two of his lairs and I intend now to finish him off. I know his ways. I'm in charge of this expedition. You will follow, not lead. And you will obey orders." "Yes, sir," she answered with lowered eyelids and bowed head. Did this cover a mocking smile? I did not care. Me boss. "Me boss." It sounded even better said aloud in a firm and declaratory tone. "Yes, boss," she said and giggled prettily while the man on the bed writhed and chomped and the boots in the doorway were silent. We went to work. Our prisoner slavered noisily in an unknown tongue when I took out the gag. He tried to bite my fingers when I restored it. A rough-looking radio on a shelf produced only grating broadcasts in the same alien language when I turned it on. Angelina's outdoor investigations were far more productive than mine and she pulled up by the door in an impossibly ugly conveyance that looked like a scratched, purple, plastic bathtub slung between four sets of wheels. It burbled and hissed at me when I hobbled up to examine it. "Very simple to operate," Angelina said, showing off her technical skill. "There is only one switch and that turns it on. And two handles, one for the bank of wheels on each side. Forward to speed them up, back to brake them -- " "And neutral in the middle," I said to demonstrate my technical skill as well as the fact that I was a male chauvinist pig and this was my show. "And this lead-covered lump in the rear must be a nuclear generator. Unshield a chunk of radioactive material, heat up the surrounding liquid -- a heatexchanger here, secondary liquid to turn this electric generator, motors in each wheel, ugly and crude but practical. Where do we go in it?" She pointed. "There seems to be a road or trail of sorts going off through that cultivated field there. And unless memory fails -- I know you will be quick to correct me -- that seems to be the direction indicated by the radio signals you detected earlier." A mild blow struck for femlib and I ignored it. Particularly since she was right as the snooper soon confirmed. "Off we go then," I said, in command once again. "Going to kill the prisoner?" she asked hopefully. "Thank you, no. But I'll take his clothes, since mine have reached the old rag stage. If we break up the radio he'll have a hard job telling anyone we're coming. He'll chew through his gag and ropes in a couple of hours so we can leave the burial arrangements of his associate to him. We will load our gear and be on our way." The firmness of my authority was dimmed slightly by the rapid, redblooming growth of my sunburn. While Angelina stomped the radio I put on more cream. A few minutes later we were bumping along the worn trail that twisted across the high plateau. T HE fog and haze were less at this altitude -- not that there was anything more to see. The rough landscape was slashed with gullies that carried away the water from the frequent rainstorms, which also removed what little topsoil still remained in the area. Tough-looking plants clung to the rocks for protection and scant shelter. Occasionally we passed branching side trails but the direction finder on the snooper kept us on the right track. The hard bucket seats were hideously uncomfortable and I welcomed the gathering darkness of dusk -- though of course I didn't say this aloud -- and turned off behind a jumbled hill of great rocks for the night. In the morning I was stiff but. feeling more fit. The drugs had whipped my cells into a frenzy of growth that had nearly healed my various wounds and given me a raging appetite. We breakfasted from the meager supplies that Angelina had brought, eked out by some coarse bread and dried meat liberated from the homicidal farmers. Angelina took the wheel and I rode shotgun, not liking the look of the decomposing landscape at all. The track now wandered down from the hills as the highlands turned into a vertical escarpment of rock. Then there were more swamps and some very nasty looking jungle into which the road dipped. Creepers hung low enough to brush our heads, and the soggy trees touched overhead. The air became more humid and hotter. "I don't like this place," Angelina said, steering around a boggy spot that slopped across the track. IF "I like it even less," I said, gun in hand and a clip of explosive cartridges in the butt. "If the wildlife here is anything like that in the river we may have some fun and games in store." I looked ahead, behind, right and left and wished my eyeballs grew on stalks. I saw countless suspicious dark shapes among the trees and heard occasional heavy crashings, but nothing appeared to threaten us. Nothing that I could see. Of course the one spot I wasn't watching was the surface of the road and that is where the imminent danger lay. "That tree has fallen right across the road," Angelina said. "Just bump over it -- " "I wouldn't," I said, just a little too late as our wheels trundled over the green trunk that lay across the track and vanished into the jungle on both sides. Our center wheels were on it when it shuddered and heaved upward in a great loop. The vehicle turned over. Angelina and I were hurled clear, but not clear enough. I hit the ground, tucked my head in, rolled and came up with the gun ready. A good thing, too. The fallen pseudo-tree was writhing nicely, while out of the foliage across the track appeared the front end of the thing. A snake. With a head as big as a barrel, gaping mouth, flicking tongue, beady eyes and a hiss like a boiler about to explode. Right under those wide-spread jaws was Angelina, sitting up and shaking her head dizzily and totally unaware of what was happening. There was time for one shot and I wanted it to be a good one. As that demonic head came down I held my wrist with my left hand to steady the gun and squeezed off a round right into the thing's mouth. Its head was blown off. That should have been the end of it -- but a gigantic spasm went through the entire length of that muscular body. Before I could get out of the way a thrashing loop struck me and hurled me into the trees. This time there was no fancy roll and dive but a simple splintery bang as I crashed through the branches and one got me on the side of the head. A nice white explosion of pain and that was that. aware of. The ache in my head drew me back to reluctant consciousness and the discovery of a new and sharper pain in my leg. I opened a bleary eye and saw something small and brown with a lot of claws and teeth that was tearing an opening in my pants leg in order to make lunch out of my thigh. I kicked it with my boot. It growled and screeched and showed me all its teeth but reluctantly slipped away into the foliage when I attempted another weak kick in its direction. Weak was the word for everything I felt. It took me some time to do more than lie there and gasp and try to remember what had happened. The road, the snake, the wreck... "Angelina!" I shouted hoarsely and struggled to my feet, ignoring the waves of pain that washed through me. "Angelina -- "' There was no answer. I pushed through the shrubbery to witness a singularly nasty sight. A churning row of brown animals, relatives of the one who had nibbled me, was working on the carcass of the snake and had already reduced great sections to a neatly polished rib cage. And my gun was gone. I turned back and searched where I had fallen but it was not there. Something was wrong, seriously wrong, and the shrill voice of panic was beginning to keen in the back of my head. As long as I stayed clear of them the carrion eaters ignored me. I made a wide loop to cross the road. The car was gone -- and so was Angelina. The situation required cogent thought, impossible with the aches and pains that were crippling me. And I had to do something about the insects that were buzzing about the wound in my head. My medikit was still in its pocket and that was next in the order of business. In a few minutes I was soothed, depained, stimulated and ready for action. But where was the action? Wherever the car was, my clicking thoughts responded. Its tracks were clear enough in the muddy ground -- which also revealed the mystery of Angelina's disappearance. I found at least two sets of large, ugly, masculine footprints around the churned area where the vehicle had been righted -- as well as another set of car tracks. Either we had been followed or a chance bunch of tourists had arrived on the scene after the snake incident. Spatters of mud and bent grass showed that both cars had carried' on in the original direction we had been going. I went that way myself at a ground-eating trot, trying not to think about what might have happened to Angelina. The trot didn't last long. Fatigue and heat slowed me to a shambling walk. A stimtab took care of one and I just sweated out the other. The tracks were clear and I followed. In less than an hour the road had wound its way out of the jungle and into some dry hills. Coming around a turn I had' a quick glimpse of one of the cars pulled up ahead and I drew back quickly. A plan was needed. My gun had vanished so shooting  down Angelina's kidnapers was out of the question. The few remaining devices in my clothing were nonlethal, though I did have a wrist holder full of grenades that Angelina had given me. They were the answer. IF I selected a handful of sieepgas bombs to drop the kidnapers before they could shoot me and took a couple of explosive grenades in the other hand just in case any of the enemy were not near Angelina and heeded more dramatic and permanent disposal. Armed and ready, I crept forward from rock to .rock, took a deep breath and jumped into the clearing where both vehicles waited. And caught a wooden club in the side of my head. wrists and ankles to be tied and my weapons to be stripped from me. For this disaster I can blame only myself and my inattention. Fatigue and stimulants mayhave contributed, but my own stupidity had been the cause. I cursed myself under my breath -- which did no good at all -- as I was dragged across the ground and dumped down beside Angelina. "Are you all right?" I asked. "Of course. And in far better shape than you are." Which was true. Her clothing was torn and I saw bruises. She had been knocked around. Someone was going to pay and pay well for that. I could hear my teeth grating together. And she was tied just as I was. "They thought you were dead," she said. "And so did I." Her words held a wealth of unsaid feeling and I tried a smile. It came on a little more twisted than I like. She went on: "I don't know how long we lay there -- I was unconscious, too. When I came to I was like this and they had taken ihe guns and everything and were loading it all into the cars. Then we left. I could do nothing to stop them. All they speak is that same horrible language." They looked as horrible as their language sounded, all scruffy clothing and greasy leather straps, bushels of matted dirty hair and beard. I had an entirely unnecesary closer look at one of them when he came over and twisted my head to one side and the other while he compared my crunched features with a good photograph of me. I snapped my tfceth at the filthy fingers but he pulled them away in time. These must be He's men -- the photo proved that -- though I had no idea where it came from. Taken during one of our tangles in time no doubt and treasured by his crew ever since. At this point I noticed the ugliest and smelliest of the lot ogling Angelina. I snapped at his ankle and was kicked aside for my pains. Angelina is a very direct-minded girl. When she knows what she wants she gets it, no matter what. Now she saw the only way we could get out of this mess and she used it. Woman's wiles. With no hint of disgust at the ugly brute she began to openly to lavish her attention upon him. She could not speak his language but the language she did speak was as old as mankind. Turning away from me she smiled at the hairy beast and gave a twist of her head to call him over. Her shoulders were back, her charming figure prominent, hips tilted coyly.' Of course it worked: There was a bit of lively dicussion with the other two, but Hairiest knocked one of them down and that was that. They looked on with burning jealousy as he stalked over to her. She smiled her warmest and held out her slim, bound wrists. What man could resist that unspoken appeal? Certainly not this shambling hulk. He cut the thongs on her wrists and put his knife away as she bent to free her ankles. When he hauled her to her feet she arose eagerly. He locked her in a bearlike embrace, bending his face to hers. I could have told him that he would have been safer trying to kiss a sabertooth tiger but I did not. What happened next only I could see because the jealous watchers were blocked from sight by the bulk of his body. Who would imagine that those delicate fingers could shape themselves into that hard a point, that the thin wrist could propel the hand so deep into bushy's gut? Lovely. He bent to her and, with only a gentle sigh, kept bending. For. a moment she supported his weight -- then stepped back and screamed as he folded to the ground. A picture of feminine innocence, hands to cheeks, eyes staring, shrieking at the strange occurrence of a strong man collapsing at her feet. Of course the other two ran over, but their faces showed the beginnings of cold suspicion. The first one carried my gun. XI As soon as he was close enough she let fly with bushy's knife, which she had appropriated before she dropped him. I did not see where it hit because the third man was passing me and I had drawn my legs back in hopes that he would. He did. I kicked out, got him below the knees and he went down. Even as he fell I was jack-knifing forward and before he could get up again I let him have it with both boots in the side of the head. And a second time just because I was feeling nasty. That was that. Angelina removed the knife from her unmoving target, wiped it on his clothing, then came to free me. "Will you kill the ones who are still twitching?" she asked demurely. "I should, but cold-blooded revenge is not for me. They are what they are and I suppose that is penalty enough. I think if we took all their supplies and wrecked their wagon it would be revenge enough. You were wonderful." "Of course. That was why you married me." She kissed me IF quickly because she had to turn an instant later to land her heel on the forehead of bushy, who was beginning to twitch. He slept on. We packed and left. Our goal was not too far away. A few hours later we felt a stirring of the air that grew stronger as we continued down the track through the hills. A sudden turn brought us to the brink of a valley with a sharp drop and I kicked the vehicle into a swirling spin and darted it back out of sight again. "Did you see that?" I asked. "I certainly did," Angelina replied as we slipped forward on our bellies and looked around the turn. The wind was stronger here, pouring up the wide valley from some invisible source below. The air was. cooler, too, and though the ever-present clouds hung above, no fog obscured the view in the valley. Across from us the hill rose, turning to a solid cliff that reared up vertically, glossy black stone. Erosion had carved it into a fantasy of towers and turrets -- men had carved these further into a castle city that covered the mountaintop. There were windows and doorways, flags and . pennants, stairs and buttresses. The flags were bright red and inscribed with black characters. Some of the towers had been painted crimson as well and this, with the mad frenzy of the construction, nieant only one thing. "It's not logical, I know,' Angelina said. "But that place sends a definite shiver down my spine. It seems -- hard to describe -- perhaps Insane is the best word." "The absolute best. Which means that since this is the right world and time, a place that looks like that must be where He is." "How do we get to him?" "A very good question," I said in lieu of an intelligent answer. How did we get into this kookycastle? I scratched my head and rubbed my jaw but these infallible aids to thought did not work this time. There was a slight movement at the edge of my vision. I looked and grabbed for my. gun -- and froze the motion. halfway. "Don't make any sudden motions, particularly in the direction of your weapon," I told Angelina in a quiet voice. "Turn around slowly." doing nothing that might produce anxiety in the trigger fingers of the dozen or so men who had appeared silently behind us and stood with leveled and firmly aimed weapons. "Get ready to dive forward when I do," I said and turned back to see another four men who had appeared just as silently in the valley in front of us. "Belay that last command and smile sweetly and surrender. We'll chop them up after we get in among them." This last I meant mostly as a morale booster. Unlike the wildeyed men from whom we had taken our multiwheeled transportation, this lot was cool and able. These men were dressed alike in gray onepiece plastic outfits equipped with hoods. Their weapons were as long as rifles, gape-orificed and lethal looking. We trotted forward obediently when one of them waved that instruction in our direction. Another member of the closing circle stepped closer to look us over, but not close enough for anyone who wasn't suicide prone to attempt to seize his weapon. " Stragitzkruml ?" he said, then continued: "Fidlykreepi? Attentottenpotentaten ?' When we made no response to these incomprehensible requests he turned to a bulky man with a red beard who seemed to be in charge. '# ne parolas konantajn lingvojri," he said in clearly accented Esperanto. "Well that's more like it," I answered in the same tongue. "Might I ask why you gentlemen find it necessary to pull guns on simple travelers like ourselves?" "Who are you?" Redbeard asked, coming forward. "I might ask the same of you." " am pointing the guns," he answered coldly. "A well made point and I bow to your logic. We are tourists from the land across the sea -- " He interrupted with a short and nasty word. "That is impossible as we both know, since this is the only land mass on this planet. The truth now." We both hadn't known, though we did now. A single continent? What had happened to Mother Earth during those twenty millennia? Lying had been no good so perhaps the truth might work. It did on occasion. "Would you believe me if I told you we were time-travelers?" looked startled and there was a stir of movement among the men who had been close enough to hear what I had said. Redbeard glared them into silence before he spoke again. "What is your connection with He and those creatures in his city up there?" A lot depended upon my answer. Truth had worked once and it might turn the trick again. And he had said creatures -- a giveaway. I could not believe this calm and disciplined force could be associated with the enemy. "I have come to kill He and wipe out his operation." This really did produce the right effect. Some of the men even lowered their guns before being growled back into line. Redbeard uttered a command and one of the men hurried away. We remained in silence ' until he returned with a green metal cube about the size IF of his head that he handed to the commander. It must have been hollow because he carried it easily. Redbeard held it up. "We have over a hundred of these. They have been floating down out of the sky for the past month and all of them are identical. A powerful radio source inside leads us ta them -- but we cannot cut or dissolve the metal. On the outside, on five faces of the cube, they are covered with lines of writing in what appear to be different languages and scripts. The ones we can translate all read the same way: 'Bring this to the timetravelers.' On the bottom of the cube are two lines of writing that we cannot read. Can you?" He slowly extended the cube toward me and I took it just as gingerly, while every gun was trained on me. The metal looked like collapsium, the incredibly tough stuff used for atomic rockettube liners. I carefully turned it bottom up and read the lines at a single glance before handing it back. "I can read them." I said, and they were aware of the new tohe in my voice. "The first line says that He and his people will all leave this period in time exactly two point thirty-seven days after my arrival . here." A murmur rose. Angelina beat Redbeard to the punch with the important question. "What was in the second line?" I tried a smile but it didn't seem much good. "Oh, that. It says that the planet will be destroyed by atomic explosions as soon as they go." Ill T I HE tent was made of the same gray plastic as the clothes our captors wore and was a chilled refuge from the steambath atmosphere outside. A squat machine whirred in one corner, dehumidifying and cooling the air. Even cooler drinks had been produced and I drained and brooded over mine, trying to see a way out of this dilemma before the deadly deadline was reached. Though guns were still in evidence an unspoken truce was in effect -- Redbeard decided to formalize it. "I drink with you," he said. "I am Diyan." It seemed very much like a ritual so I repeated the formula and intro- duced myself as did Angelina. After this the weapons vanished and we were all much more chummy. I sat down where I could benefit from the full breeze of the air-cooler and decided to ask some questions. "Do you people have any weapons heavier than these handguns?" "None that are available. The few we brought have been destroyed in battle with He's forces." "Is this continent so big you  can't get more of them here quickly from your country?" "The size of the continent is of no importance. Our space vessels are very small and everything must be brought from our home planet." I blinked rapidly, feeling I was getting out my depth. "You are not from Earth?" I asked.  "Our ancestors were, but we are all native born Martians;" "You wouldn't care to give me a few more facts, would you? The sound of confusion I keep hearing appears to be inside my own head ", I am sorry. I thought you knew: Here let me fill your glass. The story really begins many thousands of years ago when a sudden change in solar radiation raised the temperature here on Earth. By sudden I mean a matter of centuries. As the climate changed and the ice caps melted, the continued existence of life on the surface of the planet was threatened. Coastlines were altered and immense areas of lowlying land inundated; great cities were drowned. This in itself might have been dealt with, had it not been for the seismic disturbances brought about by the shifting stresses on the Earth's surface as the poles were freed of their ice burden and the released water covered other areas. There were earthquakes and lava flows, sinking lands and the rising of new mountains. All quite terrible -- we have seen the recordings many times in our schools. An incredible international effort was launched to terrafy the planet Mars-that is, make it suitable for human habitation. This involved the creation of an atmosphere there with a high carbon dioxide layer to trap the increased radiation of the sun, the transportation of ice mountains from the rings of Saturn, things like this. It was a noble ambition that in the end did succeed, but it bankrupted the nations of Earth who gave their all in this unbelievable effort. Eventually there was dissent and even warfare as weakened governments fell and greedy men fought for more than an equal share of space on the new-made world. Through all of this the waters continued to rise on Earth and the first Martian settlers struggled against the harsh rigors of a barely livable world to establish the settlements. In history these are known as the Deadly Years because so many people died -- the figures are unbelievable. But in the end we survived and Mars is a green and comfortable world. "Earth did not fare as well. Contact was lost between the planets and the survivors of the once teembattle for survival. There are no written records of that period, thousands of years long, but the results are clear enough. This single large continent remained above the sea, as well as some island chains to mark earlier mountain ranges. IF And madness rules mankind. When we were able we rebuilt the ancient spaceships and brought what help we could. Our help was not appreciated. The survivors still living on Earth kill strangers on sight and take great pleasure in it. And all irien are strangers. The almost unshielded solar radiation here produced mutants of all kinds among all Earth's life forms. Most mutations died off quickly but the survivors are deadly to a universal degree. So we helped where we could -- but really did very little. The Earthmen were a continuing danger to each other, but not to Mars. That is not until He united them some hundreds of years ago:" "Has He really lived all that time?" "It appears that He has. His mind is as bent as theirs but he can communicate with them. They follow him. They have actually worked together in building that city you have seen -- building a society of sorts. He is certainly a genius, albeit a warped one. His people have factories going and a rudimentary technology. One of the first things they did was ask for more aid from Mars -- and they would not believe us when we said that they were getting the maximum already. Their mad demands would have not bothered us had they not unearthed rockets armed with atomic bombs that could be directed at our planet. It was after the first of these arrived that this expedition was organized. On Mars we survived by cooperating -- there was no other way -- so we are not a warlike people. But we have made weapons and will reluctantly use them to insure our own survival. He is the key to all the troubles and we must capture or kill him. Thousands are dead at home and radioactivity is increasing in the Martian atmosphere." aims are identical," I V-told him. "He has launched a time attack against out people with equally disastrous results. You have summed up our retaliatory goals quite neatly." "How do we go about it?" Diyan asked eagerly. "I'm not sure," I answered gloomily. "We have a little over ten standard hours left to operate in," Angelina said precisely. Like all women she was a true pragmatist. While we wasted time nattering about the past she faced the fact that the decision would have to be made in the future and tackled that, the real problem. I yearned to demonstrate my affection for her but decided to wait for a more appropriate time, if more time did exist at all. "An all-out attack," I said. "We have weapons we can add to yours. Attack on all fronts, find a weak spot, concentrate our forces, blast through to victory. Do you have any large weapons left?" "No." "Well, we can get around that. How about crashlanding one of your spacers inside the castle up there and getting a fighting force behind their backs that way?" "Our spacers were destroyed by saboteurs, suicidal ones. Others are coming from Mars but will arrive too late. We are not really very have always lived with it." Gloom grew so thick in the air you could have cut chunks of it out, "The grav-chute," Angelina said quietly so only I heard her. "We will use the grav-chute," I said so loudly that all could hear. A good general depends on able staffwork. The complete plan was now clear, written in letters of fire before my eyes. "This is a go-forbroke operation. Angelina and I are going to drain the charges from all our unessential equipment to put a full charge into the gravchute. Then we will rig a multiple harness for this. Til do the exact computations later but I would guess that it will lift five or six people over those walls and inside before it bums out. Angelina and I are two, the rest will be your best people -- " "A woman -- no, this is not work for a woman," Diyan protested. I patted his arm understanding. "Have no fear. Sweet and demure as she is, Angelina can outfight any ten men in this tent. And everyone is needed. Because the troops outside will be launching a quite realistic attack that might break through -- general at first, then concentrating on one flank. When the noise is at its highest the commando squad will lift over the opposite wall and bore from within. Now let's get things organized." XXgroundwork. These peaceful Martian plowboys knew nothing about scientific slaughter and were only too happy to turn the responsibilities of leadership over to us. Once matters were under way I lay down for a quick sleep -- I had been awake or clubbed unconscious something like two full days and # years and I was understandably tired. The three hours I grabbed were certainly not enough and I awoke chomping and blinking. I chewed a stimtab to make up the difference. It was dark outside the tent and still just as hot. "Are we ready to roll?" I asked. "Any minute now," Angelina said, cool and relaxed and showing no signs of her labors -- she must have been at the stimtabs, too. "We have about four hours to dawn and we are going to need most of that time to get into position. The attack begins at first light." "Do the guides know the way?" "They should. They have been fighting in and around this position for almost a year." IF This was the showdown. The men were all .aware of it. There could be only one winner this day. Perhaps they weren't bom fighters, but they were learning fast. If you are going to fight you fight to win. Diyan showed up with three men who carried a jury-rigged metal harness with the grav-chute built into the center of it. "We are ready," he said. "Everyone knows what he is to do?" "Perfectly. We have already said our goodbyes and the first attack units have moved out." "Then we'll get going, too." Diyan led the way, though how he found it in that steam-heated darkness I have no idea. We stumbled behind him, sweating and cursing under the burden of the clumsy harness, and the less said about the following hours the better. Dawn found us collapsed under the far wall of the fortified city, the highest and apparently the strongest point. Our target. As it appeared out of the haze above us, black and grim, it did not look at all attractive. I squeezed Angelina's hand to show her I was fearless and to cheer her up. She squeezed mine back to show that she knew I was just as frightened as the rest of them. "We'll d # it, Jim," she said. "You know that." "Oh, we'll do it, all right -- the continuing existence of our particular hunk of the future proves that. But it doesn't indicate how many are going to die today -- or which of us will live into the foreseeable future." "We're immortal," she said with such surety that I had to laugh. My morale soared to its usual egotistical heights and I kissed her soundly and well. Explosions sounded suddenly in the distance, rumbling and rolling like thunder from the rock walls. The attack had begun. The clock was running and everything was timed from here on in. I helped everyone strap in and kept an eye on my watch at the same time. As our scheduled hop-off drew close I buckled in as well and touched the grav-chute controls. "Brace yourselves," I said, watching the numbers flutter past. "And be ready to cut free when we hit at the other end." I punched the button and with a metallic groan from the harness my little force of six rose to attack. Wface of the rock, sitting ducks for anyone with a good gun and a keen eye. The sensation was uncomfortable to say the least. I had to lift off gradually to keep our harness from buckling, but I speeded up as fast as I could until we were on maximum lift. A visible aura of heat began to radiate from the grav-chute as it struggled against all our dead weight. Its failure now would be highly unpleasant. Then deep-cut windows flashed by, happily unoccupied -- the black stone changed to dark wall and the crenelated top of the parapet was ahead. I angled toward it and cut the power completely just before we reached the edge. Our acceleration carried us up and over in a high arc and after that events took place at an incredibly rapid pace. Two guards were on the wall -- both were surprised, angry, armed and about to fire. Angelina and I fired first. 'We were using the needle guns now in order to remain undetected for as long as possible. The guards crumpled in silence, their faces and necks suddenly bristly as pincushions. I hit the power button for the landing. Landing? There was no courtyard or solid roof below. We were coming down on the domed and transparent cover of a large workshop, a canopy made of what appeared to be glass panels held in a tangled web of rusty metal braces. We looked at it, horrified, as we rushed toward it. We were just not going to stop in time. It was lovely. Silent, secret attackers, flitting gray ghosts in the dawn we were not. Six pairs of boots hit at the same instant and about five thousand square meters of glass were kicked out. The supporting framework twanged and bent and some of the rusty supports snapped free. For one shuddering instant I thought we were going to follow all the glass that was now crashing and clashing into the chamber below with a hideously loud cacophonyThen the gravchute gave its all with one shuddering last blaze of energy, halting our forward motion. Then it burst into flame. "Grab the supports," I shouted, tearing at the clamps that held the grav-chute to our harness. They resisted, searing my hand, but finally the chute dropped free. It fell straight down into the hall with its screaming occupants below, where it promptly exploded. I sighed and dropped some smoke and flare bombs to add to the confusion. "Our presence is now known," I said, inching back toward safety. "I suggest we get off this precarious jungle gym and back on the job." Moving carefully, sending more glass crashing down as our weight bent frames and panes slipped free, we crept back to the relative safety of the parapet. I paused for a second. "Get on the radio," I told Diyan as he climbed up next to me. "Tell your troops to pull back their attack if they haven't broken in, but to keep up the firing." "They have been repulsed on all sides." "Then tell them to cut their losses. We'll do the blitz from the inside." IF I leading in order to blast any resistance that appeared, while the others protected our flanks and rear. We pushed forward at a sweaty trot. We had to move fast, sow discord as we went -- and find He. The first door opened onto a great circular staircase that seemed to spiral down to infinity. I didn't like the looks of it so I rolled some concussion grenades down it and we pressed on across the roof. "Where to?" Angelina asked. "That tangle of turrets and buildings up ahead seems to be larger and more functionar than most of this place -- that seems as good a guess as any." Something exploded on the tiles nearby and Angelina picked a sniper out of a window above with a sirigle snapshot from the waist. We ran a bit faster, then pressed against the wall, above a straight drop to the valley below, while I blew out a locked door. Then we were in. The place had been designed by a madman. I know that is literally true, but you didn't have to know He to get the message. We prowled corridors and stairs, twisted chambers, angled walls, even one spot where we had to crawl on our hands and knees under the low ceiling. This was where we had out first casualty. Five of us were clear of this room before the ceiling silently and swiftly descended and crushed the rear guard before he could even make a sound. We were all sweating harder. The enemy we met were not armed for the most part and either fled or were dropped by our needle guns. All was speed and silence now -- we moved as fast as we could between the bizarrely decorated walls,finding it easy to avoid looking at the incredible paintings that seemed to cover every meter of available space. "Just one moment," Angelina panted, pulling me to a stop as we came through a high archway to a staircase that spiraled out of sight below, each stone step a different height from the others. "Do you know where we are going?" "Not exactly," I panted in return. "We're simply penetrating the establishment to get ahead of the fighting, while spreading a bit of confusion."  "I thought we had bigger ambitions, like finding He." "Any suggestions how we might go about that?" I am forced to admit that I snapped a bit. Angelina responded with saccharine sweetness. "Why, yes. You might try turning on the time-energy detector you have slung around your neck. I believe that is the reason we brought it." "Just what I was going to do anyway," I said, lying to conceal the fact that I had forgotten completely about the device in the white heat of combat. The needle swung about and pointed with exact precision to the floor beneath our feet. "Down and down we go' I ordered. "Where the time helix coils -- there will be found the He, whom I am about to make into mincemeat." I meant every word -- this was the third and last try. I had constructed a special bomb on which I had painted his name. It was a hellish mixture of a curdler -- guaranteed to coagulate all protein within five meters -- an explosive charge, a load of poisoned shrapnel and a thermite bomb to cook the curdled, coagulated, poisoned body of He. After this the fighting picked up. Some sort of flame-thrower below sent an impenetrable wave of roiling smoke and fire up the stairs . toward us. Singed and smoking, we crashed through a hole I blasted in the wall and. dropped into a laboratory of sorts. Row after row of bubbling retorts stretched away in all directions, hooked to a maze of crystal plumbing. Dark liquids dripped and valves hissed foul-smelling steam. The workers here were unarmed and they dropped before us. We were trotting more slowly now and gasping for breath. "Uggh!" Angelina said, making a twisted face. "Have you seen what is in those jars?" "No, and I don't want to. Press on." Anything that could bother my cool Angelina was something I had no desire to see at all. I was glad when we left this area behind and found another stairwell. Resistance began firming up and we had to battle most of the way now. Only the fact that the defenders were haphazardly armed allowed us to get through at all. Apparently most of the weapons were in use on the walls -- these people came at us with knives, axes, lengths of metal. Screaming and frothing they rushed to the attack and slowed us just by the weight of their numbers. We had our next casualty when a man with a metal spike dropped from some cranny above and stabbed one of the Martians before I could shoot him. They died together and all we could do was leave them and push on. I took a quick look at my watch and broke into a tired trot again. We were running out of time. "Wait," Diyan called out hoarsely. "The needle -- it no longer points." I waved everyone to a stop in a wide passage we were traversing and they dropped, covering the flanks. I looked at the time-energy detector that Diyan had been 'carrying. "Which way was it pointing when you looked at it last?" "Straight ahead -- down the corridor. And there was no angle to the needle at aJI. The machine it pointed to must be on this level." IF "It only works when the time helix is operating. The helix must be deactivated now." "Could He have gone?" Angelina asked, speaking aloud the words I was trying to keep out of my thoughts. "Probably not," I said with phony sincerity. "In any case, we have to push on as long as we can. One last effort now -- dead ahead." We pushed -- and had another casualty when we attempted to cross a layer of writhing branches covered with thorns evidently tipped with poison. I finally had to burn out the stuff with our last thermite grenade. Ammunition and grenades were running short. A brisk firefight at the next corridor junction emptied my needle gun. I tossed it aside and kicked the heavy door that barred further progress in this direction. It would have to be blown open and my grenades were exhausted. I turned to Angelina just as a communication plate next to the door lit up. "You have lost your final chance," He said, grinning wickedly at me from the screen. said, then spoke to Angelina in a language I was sure He did not speak. Only she and I knew it. "Any concussion grenades left?" "I am talking -- you will listen," He said. "One," Angelina told me. "I'm all ears,' I said to him. "Take out that door," I said to her. "I have dispatched all the people I need to a safe place in the past where we will never be found. I have sent the machines we will need, I have sent everything that will be needed to build a time helix as well. I am the last to go -- and when I leave the time machinery will be destroyed behind me. The grenade exploded but the door was thick and remained stuck  in the frame. Angelina sprayed it with explosive bullets. He talked on as though nothing were happening. "I know who you are, little man from the future, and I know where you come from. Therefore I shall destroy you before you have a chance to be born. I will destroy you, my only enemy. Then the past and the future and all eternity will be mine -- " The door went down and I was the first one through. My bullets were exploding in the delicate machinery of the time helix as my He-bomb arched through the air. But he had already activated the time helix. Its green glow was gone -- He was gone. My hellbomb exploded in empty air and was more of a danger to us than to the vanished one it had been intended for. We dropped to the floor as death whizzed overhead and when we looked next the machinery in the room was dissolving. He spoke again and the muzzle of my gun looked for him. "I made this recording in case I had to leave abruptly, so sorry." He chuckled at his own bad humor. "I have gone now -- you cannot follow me but I can follow you through time. And destroy you. But you have other enemies with you and I wish them to feel my vengeance too. They will die. You will all die -- everything will die. I control eternity, destroy worlds. I will destroy this Earth. I leave you only enough time to consider and suffer. You cannot escape. "In one hour every nuclear weapon on this planet will be triggered. Earth will be destroyed." IV # gained from blowing up the recording machine that had He's hateful voice coiled in its guts but I did it anyway -- one shot. The thing exploded in a cloud of plastic bits and electronic components and the insane laughter was cut off in mid-cackle. Angelina patted my hand. "You did your best," she said. "But it wasn't good enough. I'm sorry I got you involved in this." "I wouldn't want it any other way." "This sounds like something very terrible will be done to your people," Diyan said. "I am very sorry." "Nothing to feel sorry about. We're all in the same boat." "In one sense, yes. But Mars is saved and we who die here know that we accomplished at least that much. Our families and our people will live on." "I wish I could say the same," I said with utmost gloom, borrowing his gun and picking off two of the enemy who tried to rush in through the broken door. "When we lost here we lost for all time. I'm surprised we are still around at all. We should have been snuffed out like candles." "Isn't there anything we can do?" Angelina asked. "Nothing I can think of. You can't outrun H-bombs. The timehelix equipment is kind of melted so that escape is out. What we need is a new time helix, which we are not going to get unless one appears out of thin air." In echo to my words there was the sudden crack of displaced air above. I rolled and ducked, thinking the sound meant a new attack. It did not, A large green metal case "hung unsupported in mid-air. Angelina looked at me in the strangest manner possible. "If that is a time helix -- you must tell me how you did it." For once in my outspoken life I was silent, even more so when the box began to drift down before us and, just before it grounded, I read the lettering on the side. IF I didn't move. It all seemed too unbelievable. The two grav-chutes strapped to the top of the case, the timing device that had caused them to lower the whole thing to the floor, the small recording apparatus also fixed to the case with the boldly lettered words play me lettered across it. I boggled and gaped. It was ever-practical Angelina who stepped forward and pressed the starting button. Professor Coypu's voice rolled out to us. "I suggest you get moving rather quickly. The bombs, you know, go off quite soon. I have been asked to tell you, Jim, that the bomb control apparatus is concealed in a cabinet on the far wall behind the dehydrated rations. It has been disguised to look like a portable radio because it really is a portable radio. With additions. If mishandled it will set all the bombs off instantly. Which would be uncomfortable. You are to set the three dials to the digits six-six-six, forming, I belipve, the number of the beast. Set them in sequence from right to left. When they have been set press the off button. Now turn me off until you have done that. Be quick about it." "All right, all right," I said, irritated, and switched him off. He had quite a commanding tone for an individual who wouldn't be born for another ten thousand years or so. And how come he knew so much? I complained, but I went and did the job, hurling the dehydrated rations to the floor where they obviously belonged. They looked like lengths of yellowishgreen desiccated octopus tentacles. Suckers and all. The radio was there. I did not attempt to move it, but set the dials as instructed and pressed the button. "Nothing happened," I said. "Which is just the way we want it," Angelina said, standing on tiptoe to give me an appreciative kiss on the cheek. "You have again saved the world." swaggered back to the recorder before the admiring gazes of the Martians and switched it on again. "Don't think you have saved the world," Coypu said. Party pooper. "You have merely averted its destruction for approximately twentyeight days. Once activated, the bombs wait that period, then selfdestruct. But your Martian associates can profit from this delay. I believe they have supply ships on the way?" "Due in fifteen days," Diyan said, hushed awe in his voice. "Fifteen days, more than enough time. Earth will be destroyed, but when its present condition is considered this seems more a blessing than a tragedy. It is now time for you to open this case. On top of the controls is a molecular disrupter. If this is pointed at the outside wall -- high up where the small windows are -- and angled down at fifteen degrees, it will cut a tunnel that will exit outside the walls. I suggest this be done as soon as possible. The Martians can get out that way. Now press button A and the time helix will form. James, Angelina,  strap on the grav-chutes and leave as soon as the ready light comes on." Still partially unbelieving, I did as instructed. The time helix crackled into existence and groaned and sparked as it'wound itself up. Diyan stepped forward, his' hand out to take mine. "We will never forget you and what you have done for our world. Generations yet unborn will read your name and accounts of your exploits in their schoolbooks." "Are you sure you have the spelling right?" I asked. "You make light of this because you are a great and humble man." That was the first time I had ever been accused of humility. Or of greatness, for that matter. "A statue will be erected with James diGriz, World Saver inscribed upon it." Each Martian shook my hand in turn -- it was very embarrassing. There was an admiring gleam in Angelina's eye as well, but women are simple creatures and enjoy basking even in reflected attention. Then the ready iight came on and, after a few more goodbyes, we put on the grav-chutes as directed and for the last time I sincerely hoped -- were bathed in the cool fire of the time force. Our contact must have triggered the apparatus because before I could make the very apropos remark that was on my lips everything went zoinng. T HE trip was no worse than any other, certainly no better. This was one kind of transportation I would never get adjusted to. Stars like speeding bullets, spiral galaxies whirling around like fireworks, movement that was no movement, time that was no time -- we witnessed all the usual phenomena. The only feature that was good about the trip was its ending in the gymnasium of the Special Corps base, the largest open chamber there. We floated in midair, my Angelina and I, smiling madly at each other and oblivious to the cries of amazement from the sweating athletes below. We held hands in the simple happiness of knowledge that the future still lay ahead of us. "Welcome home," she said. We floated down, waving to our friends and ignoring their questions for the moment. Coypu and the time lab came first -- we had to report. I knew a quick feeling of unhappiness that He had escaped me and hoped that the next time he was tracked down a few very large bombs could be sent in my place. Coypu looked up and gaped. "What are you doing here?" he IF said. "You are supposed to be eliminating this He person. Didn't you get my message?" "Message?" I asked. "Yes. We made ten thousand metal cubes and sent them back to Earth. Sure you would get one of them. Radio direction and such." "Oh, that old message. Received and acted upon, but you are a little out of date. What is that doing here?" I'm afraid my voice rose a bit on this last as I pointed with vibrating finger at the compact machine across the room. "That? Our Mark One compact folding time helix? What else should it be doing? We have just finished it." "You've never used it?" "Never." "Well you are going to use it now. You have to strap a couple of grav-chutes to it -- here, use these -- and a recorder and a molecular disrupter and shoot it right back to save Angelina and me." "I have a pocket recorder, but why -- " He took a familiar-looking machine from his lab coat. "Do it first -- explanations can come later. Angelina and I are about to be blown up if you don't do this right." I grabbed some paint and wrote play me on the recorder, then the machine. The exact moment when He had left Earth was determined by the time-tracer and the arrival for this cargo set for a few minutes later on the big helix. Coypu dictated the tape under my instruction and it wasn't until the whole bundle was whisked back into the past that I heaved a grateful sigh of relief. "We are saved," I said. "Now for that drink you promised me." "I didn't promise -- " "I'll have it anyway." self and scratching on a pad while I prepared some hefty drinks for Angelina and myself. We clunked glasses and were baptizing our throats when he came over. "I needed that," I said. "It must be ages since I last had a drink." "It is all coming clear at last," Coypu said. "Is it all right if we sit while we listen? It's been a busy couple of hundred thousand years." "Yes, by all means. Let me retrace the course of events. A time attack was launched upon the Corps by He, a most successful assault. Our numbers were quite reduced -- " "Yes, like down to two. You and me. "Quite right. Though as soon as I had dispatched you to the year nineteen seventy-five I found that all things were as they had been. They reverted most suddenly. I was all alone one instant -- then the laboratory was full of people who never knew they had been gone. We put in a lot of work on improving the time-tracking techniques -- took us almost four years to get things the way we wanted." "Did you say four years?" "Nearer five before we got it operational. The trails were distant and hard to follow, most tangled as well." "Angelina!" I cried with sudden realization. "You never told me you had been here alone for five years." "I didn't think you liked older women." "I love them as long as they are you. You were lonely?" "Hideously. Which is why I volunteered to go after you. Inskipp had another volunteer but he broke his leg." "My darling -- I bet I know how that happened -- " She is not the blushing type but she did lower her eyes. "We are getting ahead in sequence." Coypu said. "But that is what happened. We traced you from nineteen seventy-five to eighteen-oh-seven -- and traced He and his minions as well. There was a loop in time there, an anomaly of some kind that eventually sealed itself off. We could tell that it was to collapse with you sealed inside it and succeeded at last in forcing enough power into the helix to penetrate the sealed loop just before it went down. That was when Angelina went back with the coordinates for your next skip in time, the long twenty-thousand-year jump after He. You had to go after him because the time paths were there to prove that you had followed him. Though, of course, history was clear by then and we knew how it would all end." "You knew?" I asked, feeling I had missed the point somewhere. "Of course. The entire nature of the attack was clear, though you all, of course, htd to fulfill your destined roles." "Could you spell it out again? And slowly." "Of course. You managed to destroy He's operation twice in the remote past and eventually reset his machine and sent him forward to the twilight day of Earth. Here he spent an immense amount of time, almost two hundred years, climbing to power and uniting all the planet's resources. He was a genius, albeit a mad one, and could do this. He also remembered you, Jim -- fading memories and half insane ones after two hundred years, but he remembered enough to know you were the enemy. Therefore he launched a time war to destroy you before you could destroy him, trapping you as he thought on a planet about to be destroyed by atomic explosion. From there he returned to # to attack the Corps. You came after hiql and he fled to # to lay the time loop trap for him. I don't know where he planned to go from there but his plans appear to have been altered and he went instead IF twenty thousand years ahead." "I did that, altered the setting on his machine just before he left." "That is all there is to it. We can relax now that it is over and I do believe I'll join you in that drink." "Relax?" The word came from my throat with a singularly nasty grating sound. "From what you have said it sounds as if I started the whole attack on the Special Corps by altering the setting on the time helix that sent He to the world where he launched his campaign to destroy the Corps." "That's one way of looking at it." A way I see it, He just bounces in a circle in time forever. Running from me, chasing me, running from me... Damn! When was he bom? Where does he come from?" "Those terms are meaningless in this sort of temporal relationship. He exists only within this time loop. If you wish to say it, though it is most imprecise, it would be fair to say that he never was born. The situation exists apart from time as we normally know it. As does the fact that you returned here with the information to be sent to yourself about the settings on the atomic bombs to enable you to return here to inform yourself about the settings on the bombs in order -- " "Enough!" I groaned, reaching for the bottle with trembling hand. "Just mark the mission as being accomplished and put me in for a fat bonus. To think that I gave up the occupation of an honest thief to become involved in this sort of thing." "Thief is the correct word," a nauseatingly familiar voice cried out. "And crook, con man, blackmailer, briber and more." Inskipp stood in the doorway waving his florid face and a sheaf of papers in my direction. "Five years I have been waiting for you, diGriz, and this time you are not getting away. No excuses like timje wars now. You crook, you steal from your buddies, urggh!" He said, Urggh! because Angelina had popped a sleep capsule under his nose. He folded gently to the floor. She grabbed the sheaf of papers, then took me by the arm. "After five years I need you more than that nasty old man does. Let's bum this file and steal a ship before he comes to. It will be months before he can find us and by that time something else will have come up and he will need us to work again. We can have a lovely crooked honeymoon." "Wonderful! Here's to crime!" "Here's to time," Coypu said, getting in the spirit of the thing. We shouted our toasts together, broke our glasses against the wall, jumped lightly over Inskipp's snoring body and were out the door. It's a bright, glorious universe out there and we intend to enjoy all of it.  mounted probe had checked the atmosphere. It was similar to Earth's. The radiation levels, were high but safe. The surface was cool and firm. The climate was temperate. The probe had also found the source of the signals. The cameras were pointed directly at it. The signals came from a saucerlike object, a domed thing with a port in it. The port was open. The probe's antennas were right on it. The steady, weak, primitive signal continued. In stationary orbit high over the at the controls of his ship, the HG. He and the Russian, Mareshefsky, watched the control room screens as Bella locked herself into the HG's Lander and then separated from the mother ship for the quick flight down. Their probe on the planetoid's surface picked up the Lander's touchdown. The white of the manmade Lander was another conand Mareshefsky saw on the HG's screens were true. The intensity of the color was almost blinding. The sea's redness was topped with whitecaps. The beach, if it was a beach, wore purple colors. The vegetation, bushes, grass, even the few stunted trees were all in blue tones and the mountains, high and sharply cut, displayed a fury of multiple color, as if a child had gone mad with a crayon box. switched on another screen. The Earth Interplanetary Enforcers were still patrolling. They were protecting the life form on the planetoid. The HG's screens showed they were still focused on the decoy. If they changed their be in a race for his life. The Enforcers had orders to blast him out of the sky. If they caught him, they'd blast him. It was not easy for him to admit hunter. Earth's zoos held more brought back alive from space than had been captured by all the other hunters combined. "I'm opening now," came Bella's voice from the planetoid, clear, sweet, true. The steady and continuous background signal from the domed saucer was on minimal amplification on the same frequency. to focus his probe's cameras on the Lander. Mareshefsky stood up to look as the Lander's port slowly dropped open. When it was down, still there was no movement. "One hour from now, yes?"Bella asked, checking her time. "I'll increase the wager. I'll get it within twenty minutes," her voice said. "I'll double my bet on that." "I accept you," Mareshefsky told her. "Good. It'll be too easy," she said. And then they saw her on their screens. After the probe's check of he still would use breathing apparatus and a suit, but Bella had insisted on using nothing. She came into full focus on the HG's screens. Her form-fitting one-piece suit looked as stylish as anything on the most fashionable street on Earth. She was a stunningly made, beautiful woman. Her hair blew in the wind of the planetoid and somehow with that the menace seemed to be less. It was easy to forget that the on-the-job mortality rate among hunters was close to one hundred percent. The hunters who survived at any given time were as ruthless and vicious as the do-gooders and the Protectionists on Earth claimed they were. and fools bored him. To go down to try to capture whatever was on the planetoid was an occupational lunacy -- but to do it as if you were going to a style show was so stupid that it embarrassed him. If she was going down to seduce whatever was in the thing or on it, she was dressed for it. But in the light of his memories of the monstrous beings that lived and grew in space she was F IT he watched carefully and professionally as she climbed down, faced the probe's cameras corrupt, she was rotten, she was as loathsome as Mareshefsky was -- as he himself was -- and yet, seeing her standing there, he had to admit that she looked like an angel. "Everything's quiet," Bella said. "There's a strong wind -- an Earth feel to it. With it and the temperature it is like a spring day. The colors are, extreme. We were wrong about them. They are far beyond the range and values of your cameras." She walked a few steps. "There's a feeling of artificiality. I don't know why. I just suddenly felt that. The surface is firm -- but strange. It has an almost papier-mache feeling underfoot. But I see no imprint in it, not my footprints and not anyone else's or any thing's." A honking noise came from the audio system. "I just let out the horn sounds," Bella said from the planetoid. IF "No response. Not yet. The environment gives me a strong feeling that this place is uninhabited. I feel that I'm the first. But I have an intuitive unease. I feel threatened." They watched her walk around, the probe and the Lander managing fully to cover her through their checked out to the Enforcer ships. If the Enforcers came the understanding was that whichever of the three hunters was on the planetoid would be abandoned. But there was no threat from that quarter -- not yet. "I see nothing but the dome. It's a dome, though, on a saucerlike object. I don't think you can see it on your screens, but there's a clear material, a plastic or glass, a pod that it's standing on. From here I see no light emanations. My heat detector shows specific warmth in the interior. Clearly no damage visible. There's no suggestion of a crash landing. Ah, there's something -- an insignia right by the door. Can you get a closeup of it? From here it seems a diamond shape with forms -- calligraphic forms -- inside. It isn't a natural phenomenon. It couldn't be. I don't think it is. I'm letting the horn go again, on the high frequencies." probe to a spot closer to her. It got a front view and through her thin clothing it was possible to see that she was aroused, excited. "No response," she said. "There seems a complete seal. Only this one port. No visible exhausts. No moving parts. The radiation level is high, extremely high." The two men in the HG watched. "Sorry," Bella said. "I was just thinking. There doesn't seem any alternative. I have to go aboard it. I feel slight panic. I'm glad I don't have on a suit. I feel bound up enough as it is. I have to admit that right at the end, right before confrontation, I always am terrified. I always feel like vomiting. I'm adjusting my weapon to maximum. If anything is in there and comes at me I'm not going to take a chance on trying to reason with it." "It's a hell of a thing," she said, just an exclamation. "Look. Next time we do this, let's use a drag antenna. Who knows whether our radio signals will come out of the thing. Sorry. That was me swallowing. I confess that I feel absolute foreboding and terror. I feel the way I felt when I was a child and had to perform or recite. How did I ever get here? What am I doing here? "Well, it is my game. I'm going in." They watched her lift her foot and touch the domed saucer's ramp. "Lucky," she said. "First step. No bolts of energy have charged through me. From here, by the way, I'd say the material is definitely a ceramic. Okay. Next step. It's not possible to see anything inside. It's just darkness. Wait! Now I can. There's a flame or light in there. Nothing else. It doesn't seem to illuminate anything. Just a flame, a bottled flame. I don't know what it is. "I'm at the top now. Can you see me? I guess I can't stall. I'm going in. Nothing except that flame. Well, here goes nothing. I'm now -- " Enforcers' position and then broadened the focus of the probe's cameras on the domed saucer. They waited. "Use a drag antenna if you go "Yes," Mareshefsky said. "Twenty seconds." Russian hunter and then they both looked at the screens, waited, watched. "One minute. She must see something in it." The digital clocks clicked off the time. "I'm afraid of nothing, you know." "Ninety seconds. But now I have a tightening in my chest. What is happening down there?" Nothing seemed to be happening. The blue grasses were blowing in the wind -- the red sea was whipping up more whitecaps. The white saucer was just sitting there. 'Two minutes. A long time." They kept watching. "Five minutes," Mareshefsky read the clock. "Start counting to the Lander's liftoff now." "You think she's not returning." Mareshefsky watched the clocks, sometimes recited the figures. chess game with the computer. "Five minutes to the Lander V liftoff," Mareshefsky said. of check and then reached over and turned down a volume control. The microphonic pickups on both the probe and the Lander sent the sound of the Lander's horns and then its mechanical voice up to the HG. Four minutes , thirty seconds to liftoff. Mark. And then came the interminable sighing of the lonely wind for thirty seconds and then the new time. Every thirty seconds the voice spoke. And then it was time. IF "Liftoff," Mareshefsky said. watch it. The propulsion didn't kick up dust or debris. He checked the monitor board and saw that the Lander was returning with no problem. He turned to look at Mareshefsky. "You want your turn?" "Is it possible to put the probe aboard the saucer?" swung his chair around and reached forward to activate the probe. He set it off, the tractor tread slowly spinning to turn it, and then he moved it across the space and then up onto the ramp and slowly up it. "Now we see," Mareshefsky said. the top of the ramp and they looked in by way of the little probe's cameras. All they saw was the flame. "If anyone is inside, please come through his microphone. The echo of his voice came back from the probe. To Mareshefsky, he said, "I'm going to try to run it in and put an automatic withdrawal on it. Ready. Now." The probe moved in. The screens went dead. M areshefsky came into the control room of the HG. infrequently watching the Enforcer ships, still receiving the constant, steady and unchanging signal from the domed saucer on the planetoid. Russian enter, but he didn't acknowledge the man. Finally Mareshefsky said, "I think I will go down now." "An hour? Or you want longer?" "An hour should be enough." and readjusted the timers, the entire cycling of the Lander. "I can offer you another probe. There are weapons, quite an assortment in there. Or free advice," moving his queen to check the computer. years, as you have beaten me again and again, I haven't thought well of you. But now, actually being "with you, I like you. You really don't care. You don't care about Bella. You don't care about the Enforcers. You don't care about yourself." "You're wrong. I care. I'll even suggest you give up. Don't go down there. It's not worth it." "You would lie if I asked, but happens that I do not come back -- my friend, you will take your turn. I am a gambler and you are one and I tell you that you will take your turn. It is a thing that we do. And I do not want your advice or your weapons or your anything else. If I am a hunter, l am one. If my hunting is not good enough then I'll get what I deserve." "If we got what we deserved we all would have been struck down in our infancy." "Are you troubled about what we've done? Think if it happened to men. A few taken away, thrown into their zoos. Who would give a damn? And as far as wiping out life on planets by being too casual about antibacterial checks, we've all done it. It has no importance. The whole of space is filled, crowded with things. We're not big enough to dent it. There's nothing we could do that would rate being recorded in a Universal history, no act, no crime, nothing." "Luck," he said. "I will use a drag aiUenna for you." "If it won't get in your way." "It is nothing. If I return successfully we will go ahead with the partnership?" "Why not?" as a farewell. "Mareshefsky." until the Lander touched down.  Then he sat back, put up his feet and studied the screens. Nothing , had changed. The screen was filled with the damned domed saucer or i whatever it was. The surface of the i planetoid was unchanged, nothing had moved. The moving body N the planetoid, of whatever material, was constantly facing the Earth's ; sun. The light fell at a slight angle on the dome, but there was fully adequate illumination. "I'm down now. There is little to say. I'm standing on it. It is exactly as Bella said. Colors are very extreme. I would say that you'd be impressed by the mountains. Their height is considerable. And the sea, the sea is a red ocean building up to a storm. Very come at you, know that I would not mind finishing here. It is not unpleasant. It has a calm feeling to it. "I'm now facing the saucer. It is definitely a ship, perhaps made by a molding process. I've never seen the material. Call it a porous ceramic -- a semiporous ceramic. My guess would be magneticor beam-powered. No moving parts visible and no concession to aeronautic considerations. An incongruity with this atmosphere." "Why isn't it a dwelling?" no IF "Why would it be?" Mareshefsky answered. "It has the feeling of a ship. "Bella, Bella," Mareshefsky radio from the Lander's pickup. "Nothing. I'm calling but there is no response." He was quiet again, just walking around the thing, trying to tempt whatever was inside to make a move. "What the hell can it be?" he muttered. "I say give it up. There are a lot more you can get easier. Let the Enforcers get it or not get it." "I couldn't rest. What is it? Space is a bore. This is a mystery. I think I will go aboard now." "Take a shot at it. You may stun whatever's in the thing." "An idea. But if Bella is in there -- " "I'm now on the ramp. The antenna is with me. The wind suddenly has picked up. There's a howling sound to it. But it's all right. Good. I almost slipped. There's a dark slippery substance at the top of the ramp." Mareshefsky drew his weapon. "I'm right at the entrance now. I can see in clearly. It is exactly as we saw it. A light, perhaps nothing more than an I incandescent bulb. Not clear. For a moment I thought I almost saw a movement in the upper part of the craft, a convulsive move. I couldn't feel anything here. You can hear me. I will just put my head in. NW I am -- " watched the Russian fall forward into the domed saucer. There was no answer, only the continuing ping, ping, ping-ping -- , ping, ping-ping from the domed saucer's transmitter. the Lander's television lens on full power. He could read made in japan on the sole of the # East # Street New York. N.Y. # (The regular subscription price for either of these distinguished bimonthlies is # for # issues.) # issues of IF for # # issues of Galaxy for # Enclosed find  Save! address in payment for my subscription as checked above. Russian's shoe. "Mareshefsky!" Steadily, without being able to see anything inside the domed Mareshefsky's body was slowly dragged inside. He waited and watched. He didn't recall the Lander. He let it spend its full time on the planetoid's surface. But when the one hour was over he didn't allow any more. As soon as it returned secured the HG. He programed it for the return to Mars, for the long swing around to Earth. He hesitated for a moment and then moved his finger to press the buttons that would start the return journey. He couldn't do it. He argued and damned and cursed himself, but he just couldn't do it. He had to go down. He got his suit, attached the equipment he always used. After each move he paused to call himself a dirty name. He was the worst damn fool. Why did he have to go? He didn't need whatever was down there. He didn't need the money. He didn't need the credit. Why couldn't he just let it go? But he couldn't. Even as he climbed into the Lander and carefully set everything to full manual control he fought with himself. But he released from the HG and he went down. No magic or romanticism drove him. He felt no force, no obligation, no loyalty. He was going down because he was a fool. He couldn't resist the challenge. He had to find out what the damned thing was. He put the Lander down just behind the domed saucer, not in front where the others had come in. As soon as he put his foot on the surface of the planetoid he let loose with a blast from his weapon and then he did it five more times. Then he walked up to the saucer, turned his blaster high and blew a part of the pod apart. There was a sharp crack, a shrieking sound. The thing tottered and swayed to to the port side. He turned his blaster at the port and he fired into it. He walked up the twisted but otherwise intact ramp and saw the lamp inside and he blasted that. And then he walked into the saucer, the dome. The planetoid kept moving. It moved beyond the concern of the Enforcers, of the do-gooders on Earth. It moved out into deeper space sending its radio invitation to anyone who would listen. One and one are two. One and one are two. Ping , Ping, ping -- ping. It was still hungry. # IF I T was spring again. April -- and the vapor shield was pale newapple green. A gnawing was in my flesh strips, sharp ache and longing tear -- or many tears, maybe, attempting to bring my heart rain, trying to surface and soften my new-metal steel. The Stronghold air was all at once too thick, too hot, and it smelled like old brass doorknobs dropped in a trash-box blaze. Yes! Spring is that season! Caution is the word -- iron control and bird-dogging of the mind are the strategy. Against betrayal, selfbetrayal. And maybe I was not the only one. Maybe the other Stronghold masters, too, were trembling in their innermost Cells of Authority, fighting a silent battle as the flesh strips writhed and remembered spring... "Assembly!" I shouted the word. I screamed the call. I thumbed the button that let loose Noisy-Din. "Emergency!" And they all came toggling as I had trained them to do, as they knew they must do, moving with shank's mares of newmetal, the hinges and braces of speed. Our speed! Yes. They tended toward the Great Hall of Discussions with all the clank and hurry they owned, the multitude of the weapons men, the servants -- just a few -- and the couple or so mutants (little flesh bums dressed all in tin) I allowed at times in the Stronghold so that I might be amused. (Horrible soft mushy people inside their tin, the flesh bums; not at all the bright and shiny solid grace we Stronghold people are, taut and straight in our new-metal steel replacements, with just a few flesh strips holding our godfhood bound). While they "ran" toward the Great Hall of Discussions I left my hip-snuggie throne in the innermost Room of Authority. I moved the same way they moved, toggling my hinges and braces to be there on time.Yes, with our newmetal steel replacements, from the commonest churl to the King we have given up grace of animal movement in walking. But when we bang into a corner or fall to the floor in a misstep or when a piece of battle-flung metal catches us on a part we do not bruise or break. We do not bleed. The real world's beatings we take now and just pay them a never-mind, as though those terrible hammers were in thick, soft velvet gloves. Yes. We win some and lose some. To defeat old enemy Time we bartered well for the long gains and paid the fee of the losses as we had to -- as we cut our flesh selves down. They were all there waiting as I toggled onto the stage. The silence was that hushed respectful absence of any sound at all that benefits IF the entrance of the King. They had to be ready to storm the gates of utter impossibility if I so hinted -- and they knew it. But my request this time was mild, though not so mildly put. I was emotional. I let them know the wish of their gleaming King -- I screamed it. But what I demanded should not have been a thing too hard to come by even at this late date. "Make me an acre!" I cried. "An acre of soil!" The looks of the weapons men and the servants were all of disbelief. "I would plant crops and cultivate, this softest of the spring months of the year. Something deep in my flesh strips grows, unfolds, flowers and cries for husbandry at this year-time that was once verdant with newborn leaves and stems. But now in our great steel times "nothing is born, all is made. Only the vapor shield is live new-apple green -- the rest is all cold steel. Ah, it is beautiful, the precision we've gained, the flowers all up in metal in their rows, the leaves all folding out ersatz and shiny as the great trees leap through the yard holes at the press of a switch. And the grass that comes is just-so green, a nice ever-last carpet as chunks of the prearranged plastic tumble upside down! All this at the turn of a switch. But it leaves a somehow hunger deep in some empty wells. The flesh strips writhe and remember. So make me an acre of soil!" T HE looks of the weapons men and the servants continued all disbelief. Whispers marched through the room and a small stale ribbon of sighs went out. And finally my head weapons man, Slag Morgbawn, dour and efficient, once himself a Stronghold master and a "replaced" man, his lone flesh strip alive now in a built-in pickle jar, spoke. "With all due respect to our chief," he said, "and your station of merit and the fact that you are a kind of King -- an acre of soil is about as possible just now as our handing you the sun nestled in a little bucket of ice. Not that we wouldn't do it, if we could, Sire, you understand -- hand you the sun, I mean, nestled in a little bucket of ice. But some things arejust not to be done, Sire, no matter' how keen the desire of the would-be doer. Or how shining great and honored the demander." "An acre of soil!" I repeated my cry. "Excuses are for old-women warriors who exaggerate always the deed to be done. Are any oldwomen warriors present? Ah, I acres of soil, many as close as the reach of our ever-last mechanized eyeballs. And one acre's procurement for me, your King, you compare with the sun riding a small bucket of ice and set at my feet? Break out the little blasters! Don't tell me the greatest Stronghold on Earth will boggle at such a tiny request as the need of a little planting dirt for its master's spring cropping. I know our soil now, for many sterilized reasons, is under a few feet of plastic and that on top of a goodly apron of concrete sometimes laid on steel. Certainly we've hidden the soil after 'they' mined it, raped it, poisoned it, totally ravaged it for the things of 'their' greed. But break out the little portable blasters! I'm sure our great Stronghold -- toward which all other Strongholds think in shudder and shame, being so deeply in fear of us -- can blast down a hill or two. We can penetrate those few feet of plastic, that concrete and, if need be, that bedrock of steel! Will we find soil to our liking? Has the ransacked dirt come back after lying for years under its blanket of plastic, its comforter of concrete and, in some cases, its bundler of steel? Has the soil been cleansed? Has the sick Earth sweetened? Listen," I said, pulling taut my leg uplifters to make me the tallest of the tall and pressing the small neck button that would give my voice more shove, "if we ask doubting questions what will ever get done? Where will our destiny be? If we had never done more -- wouldn't we still be tail-tied to trees, hairy and dumb, meatbodied, flesh-aped to nothing, not knowing? Break out the little blasters. Pulverize me a hill! But don't blarn it. Don't blow it to high skies and all winds -- just make me an acre of soil!" green April day preparing to war on a hill. All the kill-potential of Stronghold # could be employed to expedite our task, if need should dictate an all-out war on the plastic mound. But I had given the order for little tag-along blasters, as seemed to fit the need. All my weapons men and their mechanical stale ribbon of doubting sighs would obey. Yes! Soon we were out in the field as if geared for war, riding our crawltrack transports with our portable weapons of ultimate destruction all to the sides and the rear and I felt more like a god than a King. (After all, how many Kings have created an acre of soil in an apple-green vapor month?) The logistics of the little blasters attack and all the attendant problems of invasion were handled ably by my weapons men headed, a little reluctantly I'm afraid, by Slag Morgbawn, the IF most feared weapons man in all wide Moderan. I'm thinking he thought it a little beneath him to be planning attacks on a hill that had no purpose other than being hill. But perhaps the fierce and the mighty need some shame at times, a homely humbling little task to take them clear back to themselves and restore them to the realities. I carried a tiny sprig of springmetal blooms and hummed a lilting tune as we pressed toward the hill. The tin and silver Tirds of Central Seasons spring, released by throwing switches in Bird Control, flew far and wide, filled the air with the whooshing of their jets and blew At the Statler-Hilton Hotel, New York City. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York.  Statler-Hilton Hotel Boston, Massachusetts. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For inforStation, Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Center Harbor, New Hampshire. For information: Ed Meskys, Box #, Center Harbor, New Hampshire #. European Science Fiction Convention with the Trieste SF Film Festival. Membership: #, attending; #, Tony Lewis, # Unity Ave., Belmont, Leland Sapiro, Box #, University #AA, Melbourne, Victoria #; O-okayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo. Convention address: Eurocon #, Casella Postale #, #, Venezia, Italy. Send membership money via individual agents listed above.  World Science Fiction Convention. At the International Hotel, #I West Century Blvd., Los Angeles, California #. Guest-ofHonor: Frederik Pohl. Fan Guests-of-Honor: Robert and Juanita Coulson. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: L.A. Con, P.O. Box #, Santa Monica, California #. their sharp metal shrill. Ah, spring! We opened on the hill. We moved in close and let it have our shots. We cracked it wide! We crushed it down. We went through plastic, concrete and steel with penetrating blasts. In some ways it was like cracking and peeling some giant bird's three-layered egg. What did we find inside the three-layered egg? Had rattlesnakes come back? Had buzzing death been imprisoned to live all that while in our little hill? Our instruments droned their warning and we moved away from the illness that spoke to us from the unwell soil. It was contaminated, ruined, still ailing. We moved against other hills. We blasted and cut them down. We moved in with our gauges and heard that awful drone. Hill after grim hill. Until very late in the afternoon my pride came loose and I stood up and shouted at the whole wide high mocking air and green heaven, "Two buckets of good soil! I'll settle for two buckets of good soil!" Did a god somewhere hear? Well, what's to believe about such things? They stood before me, two little flesh mutant-men, disfigured, all down-drooped in the shoulders and looking back-sprained, with gristlemeat faces and hands that must have been through a broil. But smiling. Smiling at the clown King now with his pride all on the ground. And offered two small buckets of soil, one from each man. Oh, God... So we went on home -- all that kill potential now led by a King cut down to clown, carrying two precious buckets of soil through the apple-green spring air as though they were jewel boxes filled full of diamonds in gold. (Don't ask me where they got soil. Under some secret hill, out of some dark lost cranny, up from some deep-down well? Two buckets of pure uncontaminated soil that just sat there and looked glum and quiet at all our instruments' cajoling. Not a peep, not a tick was uttered when our gauges passed nearby or probed in deep to see if this soil would talk, speak of an illness.) Yes, I planted sunflowers that spring to grow the sun out of two buckets of sweet pure soil. They came up and flourished. In July they bloomed, high on the Stronghold wall, two gold spots waving. Slag Morgbawn came to look one day in mid-July. He stood by my side high on the Stronghold wall, his lone flesh strip alive in its solution in the built-in pickle jar, his manner dour, as always. I could not resist saying: "When your King seems to want the sun, just obey the orders, huh?"  IF ence-fiction readers, Isaac Asimov has not only begun to write fiction again, but his older novels are being re-issued by Fawcett Crest books. Eight are currently available and the others will soon appear -- all will carry a uniform price of #. Among those now on the stands is Pebble in the Sky , the first novel by Asimov -- and still my favorite. This one uses time travel, telepathy and a number of other devices to define its point -- an Earth that is despised by the great Trantorian Galactic Empire. A humble and elderly tailor from # finds himself involved in a war Earth has declared against the entire Empire and has his loyalty twisted and tested severely. It makes fora firstrate story -- and for the discerning, suggests possibilities that were mysteriously never used by the later Second Foundation -- or were they? A novel that is much less known than it should be, unlike the first, is The End of Eternity. This deals with the masters of time, who can enter a time tube ndt only to observe all time -- but to busy themselves with changing every era to suit their ideals of what should be. But for each change that is made, some trouble crops up to force them to redesign continually. They keep the inventions of each age, of course, even when they destroy the inventors -- and they serve as the ultimate master race. Harlan is a man who has been brought into the time tube and educated to be one of the changers of what is beyond the exclusive world of the tube. But he falls for a girl from a period that he must change. She may exist after the change -- but with another culture, another history and another personality to fit the newly altered age. She won't be the woman he loves. Despite the rigid laws of his time mastership he removes her and tries to hide her in the far future, while he goes back to help find why the whole timetube system is in grave danger -- it may fail completely because the probability is that it will never be invented back in the past! Other writers have used the basic device, but I know of no one who has wrung as much out of it or has developed all the possibilities of paradox. The story is a romance with a surprise. It is also a twisted, convoluted puzzle -- and it is a book no Asimov fan should fail to read. to have returned to the science-fiction fold. Most of his work during the last few years has been in fantasy. He has written of ghosts, goblins and Shakespeare; of reincarnations of ancient superstitions and civil war heroes and of outright mysticism. But in his latest book, the feeling is again that of science fiction, though man's beliefs and what may be true of them are still central to his theme. His A Choice of Gods (Putnam, #) is somewhat reminiscent of the City series. Again we have most of mankind gone away, as was true at the end of the aforementioned series. Robots are taking care of the planet -- the Indians have been left behind and are trying to become one with nature in the old ways, though with much better understanding through what they learned from their European conquerors. The story is slow-paced, filled with touches of nostalgia and pastoral longings -- this may be either an asset or a liability, depending on the reader. I enjoyed the book. Basically, the situation is that mankind has suddenly and almost completely disappeared. Only a few awake one morning to find that most people have vanished -- either through a miracle or by having been kidnaped, snatched into space by some mysterious force. A party gathered in one house is mysteriously untouched, and man's survival must depend on them. Later they discover that a fewv bands of Indians have also survived. The "whites" try to conserve western technology, but fail for want of numbers and specialized education. The "redskins" don't even try; they feel this is a chance to take back their land and revert to the old ways that best fit them. IF The robots try for a while to serve man, but there are too many of them. Some go off to build a mysterious structure of their own. A few others move into a sort of monastery to study and extend the old faith of man. The human survivors soon discover that their life-span has been extended to about five thousand years of excellent health. Later, when their numbers increase, they discover that they can "teleport" themselves to other worlds. All but two leave for the stars, though they cantill communicate with those on Earth who are preserving the old homestead. Eight thousand years after the vanishment, John, a far wanderer returns from the stars at about the same time an alien, resembling a "can of worms," comes to Earth seeking a soul. John has found three worlds where the people -- those who vanished -- have been placed. The worlds are still in the state of technical science and human aggression. John has also been made aware of a Principal, so different from human beings that he can never call it good or evil, though he shuns it instinctively. Finally John and his companions learn that the people are returning in a scout ship, almost certainly to ravage and take over Earth again. Simak has woven much more worth saying than can be covered here. He has also spent a great deal of time developing the philosophical attitudes of his people and robots -- attitudes representing at least seven different cultural developments. While these seem to slow up the story, they are all part of the threads necessary for the Final weaving of his resolution. The book is not for the bloodand-action readers. But in a quiet way it is a rich and good book. U rsula k. le guin has established herself as a fine craftsman and a good writer in both fantasy and science Fiction. Her novels that culminated in Left Hand of Darkness were superb science fiction with a heavy social structure. A novelet on cloning was excellent hard science and psychology. And her Earthsea novels have developed a fantasy world with consistency and logic. Now she seems to have turned to a different type of writing. The Lathe of Heaven (Scribners, #) is a sort of "anything goes" science fantasy, laid in what may be the present, on Earth. It involves psi Vower and alternate futures for its basic gimmicks. Unlike anything else I can remember by her, this novel gives the feeling that it was planned as it grew, rather than being carefully laid out in her mind before writing. This may well not be the case -- when a reviewer discusses a writer's methods he's usually wrong. But the book gives that impression. George Orr is picked up as an addict after a horrible dream. He admits using more than his quota of drugs, but explains that he does not dare to sleep because he is afraid to dream. When he dreams hideous things happen -- not only in his nightmares but in the "real" wbrld around him. He's sent to a psychologist, whom he tells that his problem began when he made a relative vanish by dreaming of her removal. In the psychologist's office he changes a picture on the wall under hypnosis. The psychologist remembers how it was before -- the first time anyone but Orr has remembered that things weren't always the same. The psychologist decides to gain the ability for himself. He forces Orr to dream, deliberately managing to get him to make changes. Orr tries to escape and dreams all the more. Now each change he makes in the environment produces a higher status for the psychologist -- until he has absolute power over Orr. Meaning to escape, Orr dreams up a world where a holocaustic war rages. He then has to unite mankind, thus creating a world where aliens are attacking. A third effort produces an alien invasion and finally the invading aliens are changed into misunderstood -- and ununderstandable -- aliens who come to teach us the good life, whatever that is -- and to run such things as second-hand shops. By now this very promising idea becomes murky. A girl who was helping Orr has come and gone, changed character and station and generally become so muddled in the reader's mind that she is only a name. And the aliens, once introduced, seem impossible to get rid of -- they give him help of a sort, but not much. The story has changed in midstream with the changes in the world until there seems no order to it. In the end, with wonder piled on wonder, the plot simply loses credibility. Unlimited fantasy has one inherent danger -- when anything can happen at any time nothing can happen that will create suspense. And after the first half of this book reading it becomes a mechanical chore. acceptance of science fiction that our reference books are being taken out of the hands of fans and IF published by professional reference organizations. But it seems to me that we've had too damned much acceptance and not enough understanding by the late-comers. Some years ago Walter Cole brought out an index to anthologies that was a labor of love -- it must have taken a great deal of time for which he could never hope to gain even minimal reward. It was a valuable book and despite a few trifling and inevitable errors, an accurate one. Now Frederick Siemon has brought forth Science Fiction Story Index, #-# (American Library Association, no price given). In the first place, it is grossly misright to call themselves by such a title -- since they index stories. The Sietnon book indexes only works that have appeared in anthologies and collections; Siemon makes no distinction between the two types of books. And there is every mark of carelessness, disinterest in the field and disregard of accuracy. The sources for the book are not the original work. Instead, Siemon seems to have used the Cumulative Book Index as his source, checking the entries under Adult Science Fiction against the publishers, editors, etc., when they would answer specifically. He lists # positive identifications out of #I that # are included here. There is no evidence that he has even looked at the books to see what was in them. The errors are sometimes ridiculous. For instance, under Frederik Pohl's listing are given not only stories by him but also the titles of collections and anthologies he has edited -- most of which do jiot contain any stories of his. In a few cases he is listed as editor -- in others he is not. This is ignorance or carelessness, not a series of typographical errors. wanted an index. But they would have done better to find a man to do it who was familiar with the field, who bad or could get the books indexed and who could tell the difference between an article and a story. It would also have helped to include somehow the different titles under which an anthology appeared, rather than have the indexer screen out such alternates. Calling Walter Cole: Please try to bring out an updated or later index. There is nothing yet to replace your work -- nothing that's worth consulting. Don't worry about the lack of a stated price on the Siemon book. Whatever it costs, it isn't worth it. # unconsciousness in a strange city on an unfamiliar planet , not knowing his name or identity , with holocaustic war raging around him. A voice in his head identified him as a Terran agent involved in Earth s struggle with the Destroyers , an outlaw federation of planets once colonized by Earth. The voice directed him to safety through Destroyer lines , told him he was in the city of Ashur on the planet Onaris, under Destroyer attack. The voice belonged to a Special Assignments Group attached to the Stellar Commandos, an Earth military unit. It reached him through a minute electronic transfer link surgically implanted in his brain before he began his mission. The link not only enabled the Group to reach him at any time and see and hear through his senses, but also gave it life and death powers over him. The voice continued to brief him. His amnesia, caused by a concussion during the Destroyer raid on Onaris, was complicated by the fact that, before starting on his mission, he had been hypno-conditioned to represent himself as a leading Onarian were known to be looking for on the planet. The voice in Brons head was acid-tongued but attractive female member. Under the Groups direction Bron duly fell into the hands of the Destroyers and was taken aboard the enemy spacefleets flagship, commanded by the Dereceived him cordially, believing him to be Ander Haltern. Canas Bron Haltern s credentials and subjected him to a test. With the aid of the real Ander Haltern s coaching through the transfer link, Bron easily passed the test and was given restricted freedom of the ship by Cana. As Canas ,, guest  Bron Haltern witnessed -- from space -- the total destruction of Onaris by a #t hellburner missile, whose arrival Cana had accurately anticipated. The event matched the Destroyers  reputation for planetary destruction -- Cana, however, disclaimed all responsibility. The hellburner missiles always followed Destroyer raids and were of unknown origin, accordng to Cana, and this last one had undoubtedly been intended to kill Ander Haltern -- it had struck Onaris at exactly the spot where the Destroyers had seized BronHaltern. To prove his innocence Cana invited BronHaltern, as a master syncretist and expert on the # patIF terns of chaos -- which Canas own scientists had used to compute the arrival of the hellburner -- to check all data available on the ship. BronHaltern did so and also used his freedom of the ship to compute the course of Canas fleet back to the Destroyers baseworld -- information Earth wanted and Bron transmitted to the Group via the transfer link. His activities ,  however , reawakened Daiquists suspicions and he was transferred from the flagship to another vessel , the Tantalus -- a former Terran laboratory ship long since captured by the Destroyers and now part of Canas fleet. Aboard the Tantalus Bron made a startling discovery -- the ships entire instrumentation had been exactly reversed: dials read from right to left , etc. Checking back , Bron also found that the Tantalus had once been commanded by General Ananias , who had abandoned her and presumably her crew in space . When he confronted Ananias with the information via the transfer link the latter tried to kill him. Jaycee saved Bron s life. Under the coaching of the real Ander Haltern via the transfer link BronHaltern established himself as an expert on the patterns of chaos with Canas own expert , Tantalus. Studying the patterns with Laaris t Bron learned that the Tantalus was doomed to destruction via the same agency that demolished Onaris -- a finding that tended to support Canas theory that some mysterious force in the universe was determined to kill Bron. Of more immediate concern to Bron t however , were his growing suspicions of General Ananias and during a transfer-link conversation with Dr. Veeder t the medical member of the Group , Bron virtually accused Ananias of treason. X ploded like a bomb. How do you compute that? "I memorized the subspace coordinates I got in the cavity on the other ship. I've just rerun the transposition to real-space terms. There's been no chance to consult the star catalogues yet, but I'd issue a written guarantee that the Destroyers' destination isn't within half a galaxy of Brick's World. The sector's all wrong, for a start." Are you sure? "Deadly sure. Ananias not only switched coordinates on the way to GenStaff, but he must have had a separate set prepared in readiness. Which brings me to the point of this conversation. However you may defend it, your Control center is the weakest link in the whole chain. I started a mission to destroy the Destroyers, and I intend to go through with it. I have a scheme and I'm going to try it. Doc, don't stand in my way." Regardless of circumstantial evidence , Bron, you re still under orders. I admit the things you've told me need investigating , but you're to take no action unless I say so. Do you understand? "No. I think Ananias is using you for his own ends. Since I don't know what those ends are I'm not Don't take that attitude with me, Bron. We have ways of ensuring your cooperation. "Spool it. Doc! Don't try to pressure me. I know the range of a bioelectronic transducer. It isn't even planetary, let alone interstellar, no matter how good your pickup." Meaning what? Veeder's voice was sharp. "Meaning that for you to receive transmissions from me or for me to pick up from you, there has to be a local repeater amplifier somewhere close. If I smashed that I'd be free from you until I came near the next repeater." True, Bron, true. But you'd never Don't you know how small we can make a repeater amplifier? "Yes," said Bron. "It was just that knowledge that told me where it was. Now do I get my own way?" You're bluffing, Bron. Not in a Bron fingered the crucifix hanging from the chain around his neck. He brought it up to where he could see the golden cross cradled in his palm. "Now do I get my own way?" This could earn you a Court Martial, Bron. You know the penalty for disobedience. "Doc, do you think that threat holds any terrors for me? Try calculating the odds against my surviving long enough to come to trial." There was a long silence, broken only by the blood-rush static of the pulsars. All right, Bron. You win this round . We will watch and listen, but not interfere. Give me the information you have on the coordinates. "Here." Bron scanned the figures rapidly for the benefit of the recorders. "You can rerun your own computation if you want a crosscheck. But you won't get it to indicate Brick's World. Don't bother to send any ships either. By the time they get there, there'll be nothing left for them to intercept." I don't understand. You can't tackle a base world and a spacefleet single-handed. "Just watch and listen," said Bron. "It's no accident that the IF Tantalus is heading for the end of a line in chaos." You know  cant accept that , Bron. I have to act on this information. "Please yourself -- but the way I see it you'll never make it in time." gramer and began to set up a new series of equations, occasionally interrogating the cosmological indices of the ship's navigation computer when he needed further information. He worked now without attempting to conceal the input and readouts, knowing that other eyes were seeing what he saw, yet would be able to determine nothing without knowing his intention. Shortly Jaycee came back online. Dont know what you said to Doc , but he lit out of here like somebody put rockets in his afterburners. You know you arent goin to get away with this rebellion, you illegitimate worm. Til teach you not to cross me if I have to kill you in the process. "Get off my back, Jaycee. Didn't Doc tell you to leave me alone?" He shouted to leave you alone officially . He didnt say anythin about my speakin. "If this is to be a poison-tongue session, I'd have preferred the punishment button." Youd have been better advised to do so, you abortive whelp of a sex-mad she-cow. How did you ever become so lucky as to forget me? "It's a reward for good living." Jaycee nearly choked on the point. If you remembered what I remember, you wouldnt even joke about it. They dont make words to describe animals like you. Bron pulled the final readout from the printer and inspected it closely. Two doors from the chartroom he knew he would find Weaponry Control. It was unlikely to be manned by the skeleton crew, especially in subspace, but he would receive no quarter if the crew suspected his intention. Whether he had unconsciously subvocalized enough of his thoughts to warn Jaycee of his intention he did not know, but he heard her catch her breath sharply as he moved out of the chartroom. The corridor was empty. Silently he slid along the wall, hoping that the door to Weaponry Control was not locked. It was not -- probably an oversight during the recent exodus of technicians. He closed the door behind him and locked it securely. When he was sure he was able to work without detection, he turned his attention to the weapon controls. Even in their laterally inverted state they felt familiar to him. His fingers were guided by a surfacing recollection of past weaponry studies he could not call to mind -- yet they prompted familiar reactions in an ever-increasing cascade. He knew then that his own memory was breaking through the block as surely as the Haltern synthesis was slipping away. He ran a quick check on the state of the magazines and was thankful to find them in good order. No less than four unassembled Terran Nemesis hellburners, small in power compared with the catastrophic engines that had torn Onaris apart, were waiting in the assembly ramps. All they needed was the armorers' signal, which would bring together the components to form them into the incredibly dangerous weapons they were. His fingers keyed the assembly sequence in such a short time that he knew he must once have been tutored by a master. T HE automatic transfer of the missiles from the ramps to the firing tubes would be the most dangerous part of the operation. In the singing flight of the subspace mode the movement of such a mass within the ship was unlikely to escape the notice of the crew. With this in mind Bron made sure that the flight program was completely set and that the missiles' motors would fire immediately on entering the tubes. Any of his instructions could be countermanded from the bridge, but he was gambling on the fact that the missiles would be away before the crew could pinpoint the precise nature of hist interference. When all was set he activated the hellburners, then thumbed every alarm and repeater button he could find in order to create a diversion. The result was the nearest approximation to complete confusion he had ever contrived. The multiple blasts of various alarms racked the ship with a cacophony of noises. Every corridor was lit by a multiplicity of action signs, and the call boards began to chime for an urgent remuster, for which the ship had no available crew. Remaining only long enough to assure himself that the hellburners were actually spaceborne, Bron headed back to the chartroom. Soon two of the crew appeared, searching for they knew not what order of disaster. They eyed Bron suspiciously, but went on hurriedly to locate the source of the furor some two doors away. Soon the urgency of the alarm systems faded and was followed by a peaceful hiatus. Bron studied star maps IF wearing an angelic expression and listening to Jaycee alternately cursing and bitching inside his head. But the tranquility could not last. The ship's men were not slow in deducing the cause of events. Their leader was a tall and arrogant barbarian, whose mongoloid features youth made handsome in a striking way. His three companions were a mixture of races and traits that betrayed the inhomogenous blood of the Destroyer nations and their lack of cohesive ethnic groups. They were probably tenth-generation descendants of the more reckless star-travelers of the Great Exodus who had flung themselves out to the farther limbs of the galaxy to populate the new worlds and create the new federations. "You bloody insane, you make mischief after Daiquis' warn you." The leader signaled his armed companions into position with a mere movement of his finger. They were obviously a coordinated fighting team. "Now we're goin' make mischief back. You bloody Onaris Christian -- le's see you pray." This I could enjoy , said Jaycee, with rare anticipation. Looks as though the boys are going to treat you to a little of their own kind of chaos . Trouble with you , Bron, is you never know when to stop sufferin ' . "Pray." The order was accompanied by a blow Bron could have avoided only at the peril of drawing fire from the weapons of the others. He took it hard and fell. A pair of metal-tipped boots in his ribs soon persuaded him that he would find it less painful to stand. "Now pray." The mongol was jeering. "Pray to me. Pray to me for your life, Syncretis' -- because i's in my hands. Daiquis' said shoot if you give any trouble -- but I don't think he'll objec' if I kick you dead instead." Try turnin' the other cheek , Bron . He might die laughin'. You don't stand any other chance. Jaycee's ecstatic titillation made him cringe. "Damn you for a vicious whore! One day I'll -- " A fist in the stomach doubled Bron forward and dropped him to his knees. As he folded, powerful arms seized his and dragged him upright again. The leader took his time about the demolition, using calculated swings to the head and body with fists that felt as solid as bricks. Jaycee played Job's comforter in Bron's singing ears with practiced finesse and relish. Bron took as much punishment as he was able before he felt his consciousness slipping. Almost thankfully he leaned toward the enfolding blackness. XI Perhaps it started as a whisper in some white wilderness... The pain and the consciousness flooded back as the semantic trigger threw off the protective blackout. The mongol's eyes widened and a vicious thrust to the solar plexus made Bron scream with what little breath he still retained... a broken body , cradled in cold , cry in futility unto a futile wind. "Jaycee, for God's sake stop it! Let me go." He made no attempt at subvocalizing. It was as much as he could do to form the words at all. She was playing with him, deliberately using the trigger to keep him conscious so that his awareness of the torment would continue. Again and again the blows fell savagely... the mind mazed not by the sear in steal, the nibblin nerve... "Jaycee, in the name of pity -- " He no longer cared whether he lived or died. All he wanted was release from the scientific and merciless battering his body was taking... some maimed martyr, crazed upon the cross, held up his head and cried unto the heavens: Lord, why hast thou forsaken me? It was a full minute before he realized the punishment had stopped. Blood swam in his eyes and dripped warmly from his chin. He was still standing, but only by virtue of the arms that held him. Somehow he forced himself to appraise the situation. Two of the Destroyer shipmen were looking at something black and white. With difficulty he identified it as the Bible from his pocket. The leader advanced again. Bron held his breath, knowing that a few more blows, even though they might not render him unconscious, must certainly fatally injure him even if they stopped short of his death. But the blows never came. Through one eye he was astounded to see that the mongol's face held a look of admiration. "J.C.," he said. "Jesus Chris'. I seen many men killed by less beatin' than that. All of them wen' out whimperin'. But you still pray. I don' know# abou' church, but i' make you bloody tough man. Wish you were fight on my side. You bloody indestructible." Dimly Bron discerned that they dragged him from the chartroom and even more dimly he felt a couch like an ocean of softness thrust beneath him. He was only partly conscious of the washing and the cool salve they heaped on his tortured flesh. But the one thing that burned in his consciousness before the blackness closed around him was IF deep within his head saying, That 's only a sample of the tricks l can play on you  Bron. Til teach you to get so lucky as to forget about me! cabin, sensing that someone had just left the room, but unable to explain the reason he thought this to be so. Not until the aroma of baked meats from a hot tray caught his nostrils was his suspicion confirmed. Wincing with the pain of movement he thrust himself off the couch and staggered toward a wall mirror. There the bruised and broken flesh of his face formed merely a setting for the deep and haunted eyes that looked back at him from under swollen lids. He made his way back to the couch and sat examining the contusions on his body while trying to force the brittle meats past his damaged lips. Finally he resigned himself to the pain and dared to drink the hot, salt beverage he found at the trayside. The food and the self-discipline needed to consume it rallied his spirits somewhat and he was finally prepared to meet the day. "Jaycee?" No. Veeder on-line. Jaycee s off doing whatever it is she does when you get her worked up that high. "Spare me the naive approach, Doc. I'm feeling anything but trusting this morning. That must have been quite a party last night. Haven't felt like this since the morning after the last Christmas in Europa. Why did they let me live?"  suggest two reasons. One -- the Destroyers have an immense respect for strength and endurance. The punishment you took could easily have killed a man without your physique and training . Two -- l suspect they haven t yet discovered the hellburners are missing. They returned all the controls in Weaponry to normal, walked out and locked the door. Being shipmen and not weapons men, they never thought to check the magazines. I don t know what you were attempting to do there, Bron, but you certainly paid for it. "I'd have paid a lot less if it hadn't been for that hellvixen in my head." They'd probably have killed you, said Doc sagely. It was your fortitude and some lucky phrasing that saved you. I think you can thank Jaycee for your still being alive. We checked your new coordinates and you were right. The transposition gives us a primary and fivebody system location which is only just in the advanced indices. A perfect setting for a baseworld, one we wouldn't ever have hit by chance. GenStaff  has order d the entire space fleet into the area. Estimated time is approximately one hundred sixty hours from now. The conversation was interrupted by the entry of the mongol shipman. He grinned at the sight of Bron's injured features and ruefully examined his own knuckles. "You bloody head like rock," he commented sociably. He threw a Destroyer uniform on to the couch. "You wear this. You no' wear bloody gown. You trained rightin' man, no' creepin' Christian. I know." This time Bron saw no point in refusal. The uniform was an excellent fit. The cut of the cloth accented his build and the width of his shoulders. The mongol, whose name was Maku,'eyed him with some respect. "You make damn fine Destroyer, bloody sure. Could use you any time I fight." Bron said nothing. The shipman's understanding of him was intuitive and could not be dispelled by carefully chosen words. The charade was breaking down. T hirty-five hours later the Tantalus dropped out of subspace for the last time, well clear of the limits of the solar system. The Lab-Ship held station, waiting for the rest of the Destroyer fleet to drop into real-space for the rest of the journey. The sight was not one Bron would forget. At one moment the Tantalus was a metal splint alone in the wastes of space. Then, one by one, the rest of the fleet materialized about her without warningand without other obvious effect. The arbitrary point of subspace dropout in relation to the nearest primary would not affect Commando calculations much. A swift survey of the planets in the system would soon reveal the few that could be considered life-supporting. From there on identification would be swift and the retribution massive. Within days this area of space would become the mustering point for one of the largest avenging fleets of all time. Wherever Cana's ships went, the slight gravitational distortion trails they left would soon betray their passing to a thousand detectors and lead like a silken thread to the planet on which the Destroyers had homed. Curiously enough, Bron felt the avengers would probably be too late. The subspace song was replaced by the thunderous vibration of the gravity drive as the Tantalus moved with its fellows. Although the shipmen were now busily concerned with navigation and the slow interjuggling as the overall command assigned orbit stations, IF they were never too busy to depute one of their number to shadow Bron as insurance against further mischief. Bron did not mind. He had no immediate plans and his relationship with the crew had grown almost cordial. Knowing the retribution he had placed in their wake, he felt almost sorry that such unquenchable characters as thee were going to have to die. He was sleeping when the final maneuvering diverted the Tantalus out of the fleet formation to a position well apart from the others. It was perhaps the cessation of the thundering gravity drive and its replacement by nothing but ship noises and the infinite silence of space that broke the depth of his slumber and threw him into an active dream state. He lay no longer on the couch, but on a cushion, something as yielding yet as softly supporting as a woman's breast or the lining of a womb. He was moving, traveling on a dark, irresistible tide toward some terrible genesis. He could feel the motion plainly, the halt and turn of eddy and wash. He was conscious of unknowable pressures forcing him along, a peristaltic bulge cocooning his individuality, yet carrying him remorselessly onward. There were noises, glutinous, coagulant, semiliquid sounds suggesting vexatious geese being drowned in a slow torrent of treacle. The sounds broke and foamed around his head, a frantic, frothy psalm, a submerged and harrowing hymn to halt the unalterable. And over all was the terrifying sense of doom, a great block of oppression like a ceiling of living lead. Again he was making the journey "down the awful subterranean tunnel. Again his intangible raft responded to ripple and eddy and he was able to sense clearly the dark and tortured path of the abysmal stream. As he encountered each dreaded curve he was possessed by the profound fear that this particular deviation would be the last. Somewhere ahead he knew with unreasoning certainty he would come to the end. At last the way would open out into some atrocious cavern and he would be borne, exposed and defenseless, into the presence of a reality he was completely unprepared to face. Anticipation filled him with a nameless horror, begetting a rising panic that was enhanced by repetition of its threatened imminence. And ever the liquid goose-mutter grew louder, more antagonistic, more agonized, more urgent, and more afraid. The babble was rising to a crescendo that threatened to force out sanity and replace it with something more alienly strange and fearsome than any delirium of madness. The blast of a trimming jet closeby shattered the nightmare and broke him out of his sleep. As consciousness returned he sized up the situation and threw himself from the couch to the hard reality of the floor. He fell heavily, but actually welcomed the pain as a blissful alternative to his terrible wanderings. But though the visions fled, the goose-mutter remained unmistakable now as a background to the star static and the carrier hiss of the transfer-link transmissions that were ever in Jiis brain. TOC? Jaycee? There's that noise again on the transfer link." It's neither of them , little soldier . They aren't here. "Ananias? I thought you weren't allowed near the boards." There are ways and means. Doc is apparently suffering from something that got into his coffee and Jaycee ditto from something in her alcohol. Since I happened to be on hand I thought Td use this moment to come to a little understanding with you. "I already have an understanding. You're a misbegotten, unprincipled bastard, whose time is very definitely up the moment I get within throttling distance." What a great thing it must be to have a defective memory , Bron. As I recall it, there used to be, two misbegotten, unprincipled bastards and you were the more misbegotten, the more unprincipled of the pair. One might even say  owe my success directly to your malign influence. However, I didn't come here to swap compliments. I want to give you a warning. "Jet off, Ananias. Nothing you can say is going to make the slightest difference." But it must. You don't remember it -- but there was a plan behind all this. By God and guesswork it might still come off. But it wont if you persist in flying off at odd tangents on your own. Undoing those Brick'S World coordinates was the stupidest stunt you ever pulled. "That must have taken quite some explaining, Ananias. Very inconvenient for you." That's nothing compared to the damage you may have caused. My one hope is that the Commando Spacefleet won't be in time to catch any significant portion of the Destroyer task force. Why the hell don't you leave well alone? "What are you up to, Ananias? I don't know what you're aiming IF at, but it certainly isn't the success of the Commando operation." Jupiterl Ananias was disgusted. You re so far out of orbit it just isn't true. I'd be tempted to hit the murder button and start out afresh if you weren't such a powerful catalyst. I'm warning you, Bron, just play things as they come and don't start injecting any of your own chaos into the situation. If you attempt to foul things up again I'm going to have to stop you -- even if it means blowing the whole thing wide open. Since you don't appear to rerrtember much , I'll leave you with something to think about. Do you know precisely who cooked up those false subspace coordinates? You did. It tooka twisted little brain like yours to work out that particular deception. And why? Because if those two fleets meet head-on they'll annihilate each other. And what the hell will we do then? Bron fell silent, wrestling with the wrongness of Ananias's words and unable to equate them to the situation as he knew it. He needed time to think. Therewas some activity going on near the central spacelock. Equipment was being readied in preparation for a ship docking. He stood and watched, impressed by the smooth cooperation and coordination of the Destroyer crew. These men obviously lived in space and knew it for the dangerous and relentless enemy it was. They were tough, uncompromising and thoroughly trained. With a frown Bron realized that if these formidible Destroyers were to engage in battle with the Stellar Commando fleet nobody was going to win. It would not be a one-sided mopping-up operation. It would be a major running battle that would continue until one side or the other had been irrevocably beaten. And the few ships that limped home would be only the remnants of two of the most powerful fighting fleets in history. Ananias's viewpoint made sense only if one took the view that the continuance of any spacefleet -- even the Destroyers' -- was better than no fleet at all. If one considered some common enemy... The sudden flare of goose-mutter in his head caused him to pause. And in that instant there fell across his memory the image of seven alien cylinders falling on Onaris from a distance of better than six hundred thousand parsecs and time. His mind spun at the immensity of his conclusion. "Ananias, I -- " No answer. "Ananias?" Again no answer. The transferlink board had been abandoned and for the first time since the inception of the mission Bron was utterly alone. So concerned was he at his loss that he missed the beginning of some new phase aboard the ship. He was aware suddenly of a hardening of the men's manner toward him, a certain wariness untypical of their previous relationship. He guessed that some instruction about him had been received by radio and that he was now to be regarded as a dangerous prisoner rather than as the faintly amusing academic syncretism Nobody immediately interfered with his liberty, however, and he was permitted to watch the docking maneuver as a trim, able-looking planetary ferry coupled with the Tantalus's hull. But once the ship-to-ship coupling had been made and the final abandonment of the Tantalus had begun in earnest, he was no longer left in doubt of his position. The tall mongol approached, directed a handgun at Bron's stomach. While he held unwavering aim he directed his comrades to attach wrist irons to restrict Bron's hands behind his back and leg irons to confine his walking. A pad of a pungent somnific drug was held against his nose. Although he struggled not to inhale, he was unable to resist. Gradually Bron lost consciousness, slipped to the deck. Maku regarded the fallen figure with something akin to regret. "You no damn Christian. You damn fine fightin' man, bloody sure. Hope Cana goin' to look after you, 'cos Daiquis', him bloody insane." He looked back at his colleagues. "This a good man. Don' matter abou' which side you're fightin' -- good man is all the same. The side you fight for ismatter where you were born. The man you fight with is matter of choosin' sympathies. Damn sure him dead if he goes down in tha' uniform." He kicked the prostrate form affectionately. "Bron 'altern, you no right to go to 'ell in chains. But right now we got to get you out of 'ere. This ship damn sure is set for destruction, an' Cana wants to make sure you don' go with 'er." wrist and leg irons had been removed and with them the Destroyer uniform. While he slept somebody had carefully clad him in a clean, white gown and in his pocket the Bible hung with reassuring weight. The pallet on which he lay was undoubtedly planetbound, lacking the minute vibrations that characterized a shipborne berth. For a few seconds he lay collecting his faculties before he hurled I IF himself from the pallet in a frenzy of concern. "Jaycee! Doc! Ananias! Somebody answer me." The cell looked out through a small glazed slit to a gray-tiled corridor. The thickness of the door limited his field of view, but nobody was in sight outside. "Jaycee, where the hell are you? Antares -- if you have a monitor on this link, please call Control. This is an emergency -- " He looked around in agony for some way of attracting attention from somebody. The solid door made only the barest perceptible noise when he beat on it with his hands and the glazing in the slit effectively stifled his attempts to shout down the corridor. "Jaycee -- for God's sake -- " He heard a light groan over the goose-mutter and native mush of the transfer link. Weapiri demons! You aren't in the market for a planet-sized hangover, are you? "Snap out of it, Jaycee. I've got to get hold of Ananias -- " You've got to get hold of Ananias? Jaycee was incredulous. Bron, I've got first claim on gettin hold of Ananias -- and when I do you won't hear a thing for the screamin ' . That Godlost runt put somethin in my drink . "Damn your dipsomaniac misfortunes. Do as you're told. And get hold of Doc and tell him he's got to stop the spacefieet. We've all made a ghastly mistake. " He'll need a bit more reason than that to stop them now. "Find him and I'll give him a reason. If those two fleets get together they'll wipe each other out." Don't tell me you're gettin cold feet just because you're sittin at the center of the action? "Jacee, I'm a dead man either way. But I just realized we're fighting the wrong enemy." Meanin? "That Cana was exactly right when he said he didn't put that hellburner down on Onaris. He doesn't have that sort of weapons capability any more than we do. That thing was alien and it came in out of the void with pinpoint precision to kill a plapet of two creatures sent it in -- it and the other thirty-five we've blamed on the Destroyers -- they're the real enemy. If we engage Cana's fleet now we cripple both fleets and leave the galaxy wide open clear through to Terra." If there are any aliens -- what makes you think they're cornin'? "I can hear them over the transfer link. And they're the reason Cana had to build a strong Destroyer fleet." Not agreed , Bron. Cana built that fleet to strengthen his opposition to Terra. "Cana doesn't give a damn about Terra or the Stellar fleet. Try to look at it through his eyes. If he had a weapon like the Onaris hellburner he could have put it straight down on Terra and forgotten about the Stellar Commando. He wouldn't have needed a major spacefleet in order to do it." Point made, Bron. Tm puttin' out a red-alert call for Doc and Ananias. I don't think you'll convince Doc -- and you haven't convinced me -- but you do rate a bearin'. "I rate more than that, Jaycee. I'm right -- and you know it." That's Doc's decision. Meantime, Bron, you're still actin' under orders. Don't try and break away again or I'll have to bring you back into line. "I can't wait, Jaycee. I've got to warn the Destroyers to get their ships away from here. We don't dare let their fleet be destroyed. They're the only force already prepared and waiting for the aliens."  can't permit you to move, Bron. Not until we see Doc's reaction on the spacefleet. He may decide we still attack. "I wasn't talking about the threat from the Stellar fleet. I'm talking about a piece of chaos I cooked up on the Tantalus when I thought the spacefleet wasn't going to get here." Why? What the hell have you done? Jaycee's voice was as hard as diamond. "Done? Jaycee, I arranged the destruction of this whole planetary system." Spool the drama, Bron. You didn't have the hardware for that sort of action. A burners -- I fired them from Tantalus in subspace. I precalculated their subspace drop-out position and programed their subluminal trajectory from there. They're due to arrive on target very soon now."  There's still no panic. Four Nemesis hellburners won't touch a spacefleet in orbit. They won't do more than blacken a couple of continents . "They can if you use them right. It isn't just the baseworld that's going to go -- but everything on the three inhabitable planets of this system." Stop tryin ' to pressure me, Bron. I know you're Satan incarnate, but not even you can do that with four small hellburners. Anyway, the Destroyers could see them cornin'. "Not where I sent them. On such a long approach trajectory they'd normally be detected and interIF cepted as soon as they came within attack range. Mine weren't programed ever to enter attack range." " Then where the hell did you send them -- into the primary ?" "No, their effect would have been negligible on a sun. But there are six planets in this system, of which this is the third. The neighbor to sunward and the one spaceward are also inhabitable, according to the Destroyer cosmological index on the Tantalus. But the innermost planet is too close to the sun and too dense to support life. It's half molten and extremely friable. The hellburners are programed to go down on that." They'll split it apart and... The last part of the sentence was lost as the implications of the situation swamped Jaycee's powers of credulity. But if any substantial part of it comes out of orbit and goes sunward you II get a flare that will sterilize the whole system . "If my calculations are correct," said Bron, "almost the entire mass will go sunward. I've got to warn the Destoyers to pull out. I want power from Antares on the Destroyer emergency wavebands. Get me Antares on-line." Bron, you know I cant do that without Docs authorization -- and even he'd have to clear it through GenStaff  "There isn't that much time available. By the time GenStaff came up with a decision it would all be over." He went to the cell door and beat on it with his hands. "Damn it, Jaycee, if you won't warn the Destroyers I'll have to find some way to attract their attention from here." Don't try, Bron. You re still under orders and those orders still say the Destroyers are the enemy. If you attempt to warn the Destroy ers it'll be mutiny. I'll stop you by any means I have. "Get off my back, Jaycee." He slipped down and explored the bottom of the cell door with his fingers. Don't try anythin', Bron. You've already jumped out of tine once and had a heatin' taken out of your skin. Don't you ever learn? "Do me a favor, Jaycee -- drop dead." A small light fixture in the ceiling attracted his attention and gave him an idea. His hand brushed the Bible in his pocket and he took it out and examined it eagerly. Its material appeared excellently flammable. The metal bunk on which he had lain was his next objective. Fortunately it was not strongly secured to the wall. He wrenched it free. I'm warnin' you, Bron. If you cross me this mornin I'll kill you . Vm in no mood for your Godlost games . "Stay out of my hair, Jaycee. You don't dare hit the murder button and none of the others is going to stop me." smashed the protective transparent shield away from the solitary light. The light itself faltered but did not go out. I don't know what you're up to , Bron , but quit now. I warn you I'm just in the mood to give you a taste of the punishment circuit. "You'd enjoy that, wouldn't you, Jaycee?" Bron smashed the solidstate lamp away and the cell fell into darkness save for the dim illumination that came in through the slit in the door. God! Enjoy it? You don't know how near I come to usin' it sometimes. Just out of -- "Spite?" With the bunk on its side and with careful balance, Bron could just about reach the small wires he had exposed in the broken lamp fitting. Spite -- revenge . -- hatred --  don't know what the hell you induce in me. A careful twist of the fine paper tom from the Bible aligned in the diitiness between the wires ought to kindle to a spark, Bron thought. Another single sheet would give him scant protection against the current, but he dared not use more in case he damped the arc. There would probably be only one chance before the circuit protectors cut the current. Bron, I'm warnin' you... "Why don't you press the button, Jaycee? If it'll really give you satisfaction." Under his fingers the spark flared briefly but enough for ignition. A flame leaped up between his fingers as the dry paper caught fire. He jumped carefully down from the edge of the bunk and began to pile page on separated page on the small fire he was making on the floor. Oh God, Bron -- the urges you rouse in me -- Bron successfully transferred a blazing sheet of paper to the door and pushed it under. He had no means of knowing whether the flame survived, but he fed more sheets beneath the door and hoped at least for smoke to stir some alarm system into operation. "Press that button, Jaycee, you vindictive bitch. If you dare. I'd be interested to know what it does -- to both of us." Prepared as he was, the pulse of pain that hit him was far greater than he had imagined possible. Almost every sensory nerve in his body seemed to contribute to the IF pillar of corroding agony that possessed him. Even when the pulse was gone he lay for a full half-minute trying to erase the memory of those seconds. When he tried to speak his vocal cords were taut and the words would not come out. But he did not need to speak. Jaycee's near hysteria came through clearly against the background of goose-mutter and the blood-rush of the pulsars. He decided ruefully that those thirty seconds had cost Jaycee quite as much as they had cost him. Her distraught voice flared in his head... you contaminate me, Bron. You twist everythin that's in me. Damn you -- damn you... When the second pulse of pain began he knew from the sobbing that her finger was going to hold that button down for a long, long tfme. Perhaps until Doc or Ananias came and pulled it off. Fortunately she was too distressed to think of using the semantic trigger this time and mercifully he passed out where he lay. The Destroyers had thrown water in his face. He was no longer in the cell, but on the floor of some kind of communications room ringed with consoles. Daiquist, his face full of thunder, stood astride him, looking down. Cana stood to one side, his powerful intellect still striving to come to terms with the full implications of the situation. Bron struggled to his feet, puzzled by the open accusation in their eyes. Daiquist swore. He said, "I admire your nerve, but this is the last trick you'll ever pull. And to think we carried you out from Onaris -- " Words failed him, as if some yet unexplained glimpse of Bron's deception were a revelation greater than he could express, "I don't understand you." Desperately Bron tried to maintain his cover, but he knew instinctively that his cause was lost. Yet how? Why? Daiquist's suspicions had hardened to a certitude, but the factor responsible for Bron's suddenly altered status was not apparent. ' "What the hell's gone wrong, Jaycee?" Subvocally. A nanias has sold you out, Bron -- Her voice was dull and leaden. The sentence continued, but Bron was no longer listening to the words. He knew ail too suddenly what had gone wrong. As well as coming from the transducers in his head, Jaycee's voice was issuing over the Destroyer's loudpeakers. Daiquist's smile was a mixture of triumph and malice. "Now, Syncretist -- do you still fail to understand what I'm talking about? You and that on-line Commando bitch? We've learned quite a lot about you in this last halfhour. So she wants you to suffer? Well there I can certainly oblige. You're going to suffer as nobody has ever suffered before. By the time I've finished with you I doubt if even the Stellar Commando will have stomach enough to send us another spy." "If you were able to hear us," said Bron, "you'll know that I was trying to attract your attention. Those hellbumers I sent to the first planet -- you've only got hours to get away before the sunflare." "Judging from the extent of your deception this far I suspect this as just another trick. It would be only too convenient for the Commando if we abandoned our defensive position and scattered our ships right into the face of the approaching Stellar spacefleet." v "It's no trick," said Bron. "I had no idea you could monitor our transfer link." They didn't need to, Bron. Ananias took to space in an Intelligence radio ship. It seems he's interceptin' our transfer link and rebroadcasttn it throuh Destroyer emergency wavebands. Cana shot a quick look at a radio Technician at one of the consoles. "Is that true?" emergency bands, damn sure." "It could still be a trap," said Daiquist sourly. "I'm going to take him apart the hard way. I'll make him plead to be allowed to talk." ' Cana held up his hands. "No, Martin. If it is a trap -- at least the Stellar spacefleet won't catch us unprepared. We can clear this system in battle formation and meet them on equal terms. But my instinct tells me there's no trickery involved." "How do you arrive at that conclusion?" "Because the chaos patterns predict the destruction of the Tantalus. You heard where the Syncretist said he had directed the Nemesis hellbumers. Now tell me what you've done with the Tantalus?" "It's abandoned in orbit around the first planet." "And can you think of a more probable catastrophe that can happen to it than the one he has described?" "No -- " Daiquist's face expressed the measure of his agonized indecision. "But I still think I'd better take him -- " IF " Don't you understand?" Cana turned on him the full force of the personality that held a whole federation of rogue planets to heel. "Martin -- if the Syncretist is right, we'll all be dead before you get your answers." "Then just let me kill him. I don't fancy going into battle with the enemy having a direct intelligence link in our midst. Regardless of what the patterns say we've already taken chances enough." "No, Martin. I can't permit it -- and you know my reasons." Cana turned to Bron. "I've got the greatest reservations about you, Commando or syncretist, whichever you may be. The only reason you're still alive is that whichever way we plot the patterns of chaos we always seem to find you at the causal focus of some of the most aggressive waves. Apparently you're  the catalyst calculated to initiate some of the most violent entropic upheavals the universe has ever known. So answer me this, Bron Haltern, or whoever you may be -- just how do you intend to take up the cosmos and twist it by the tail?" A sudden clatter came fronv one of the monitoring consoles and an operator cried out in surprise. "The Tantalus , sir. She 'ave stopped transmittin'. I think she bloody destroyed." sharply. "Can you still doubt the patterns, Martin? That's the hellbumer's strike on the first planet. It could take hours for the fragments to reach the surface of the sun, but the consequent sunflare will only take minutes to reach us. Order an emergency evacuation." "I still think it's a trick." "Trick or not, can you still doubt the Syncretist's ability to influence events on a cosmological scale?" Daiquist was growing angry. "Look, Cana, what's to stop me from shooting him where he stands? If I put a shot through him now, what of the patterns then?" "An interesting speculation, Martin. Since his effectiveness is already included in the patterns, either you will be prevented from touching him or we should gain first-hand knowledge of resurrection. Either way offends my materialistic dignity, so I forbid you to try. I'll take him with me to the flagship, while you organize the evacuation. We have a system to lose and a fleet to save, so there's no use in arguing now." With bad grace Daiquist turned to the radio operator, at the console. "Order a general alarm. All personnel to return to their ships and all ground staff to remuster for emergency evacuation. All ships to be placed in battle readiness fourteen system diameters out. This is a prime emergency and there will be no repeat of this instruction." Daiquist moved across the room, now shouting detailed orders. Cana looked at Bron sagely. "Well, Syncretist, do I take you in chains or do I have your word that you will attempt no further mischief? In any case I ought to know your Commando rank." "I can give you neither. First, I'm still on active service under control of Commando Central. Therefore I can give you no personal assurances. Second, I've forgotten my rank along with most other details of my personal life." "Then perhaps your mentor would be so' good as to supply the information?" He 's Commander Bron, of the Commando Central Intelligence Bureau, supplied Jaycee dully. Cana's eyes widened appreciably and he smiled as if at some old memory. "Ah yes! I might have guessed. Tell me, Commander, does she hear me through you?" "Not only hears you -- she can also see you." "Remarkable." Cana's eyes instinctively searched Bron's head but learned nothing of the transducers buried deep into the skull. "I had underestimated the Commandos both for their technology and for the class of men they produce. Nevertheless I shall still have to think of you as Haltern the Syncretist, because that is undoubtedly the catalytic role you have to play. Shall we go?" aides, they went through a door and were suddenly in the open air, standing in a pale-gray light of what Bron took to be early dawn. Looking about him, he could see nothing but a stretch of sparsely vegetated wasteland stretching as far as the eye could reach. The air was damp and chill and inhabited by a forlorn sense of loneliness --  the antithesis of what he would have expected from a Destroyer baseworld. Only the cleaved rock of the buildings they had just left suggested the works of man. Initially he was perplexed by the barren outlook. Then his estimate of the pale sun sharpened when he saw the height of its position. He knew then that this parody of winter was all the noon this blighted place was going to get. Nobody would build a baseworld in a place so inhospitable and where the ecology was so starved of the essential energy for photosynthesis. The more he IF thought about it, the more obvious the situation became. The Destroyer flesh-ships had not been making directly for their baseworld, after all. They had needed to unload their cargoes of flesh upon whatever world they had chosen to be worked. This was a mere colony world -- a labor camp for the thousands of slaves who were to have been tossed upon its barren soils to' work out their lives under a sparse and alien sun. Men were cheaper than machines for initial colonization. They were more easily obtained, more versatile. They had the gift of self-duplication, which was not a feature of mechanisms, and, though vastly less efficient, they could be made to perform any labor a machine could do. It mattered little how many of them died in the fields, since a nurtured nucleus could always be used for breeding further stock. Thus, in the broadest economic sense, mankind had even yet triumphed over automation. Machines cost money and skilled attention: slaves cost no more than their transportation and the cost of the whips to drive them to the fields. Bron felt suddenly sick. It was upon this gray wraith of a world that he had called down a vengeance to end all vengeance. The Destroyer fleet was still in orbit and the only craft visible were ferries. With the great spacefleet above preparing for battle with the approaching Commando fleet, it was a certainty that the hapless Onarian slaves would be hastily dumped on the planet's surface to await the ordered coming of the sunflare that would sterilize the planet and everything that remained upon it. studying him closely and he wondered if the great Destroyer's intellect could extend to an appreciation of his captive's thoughts at that moment. If it did, Cana showed no sign. His features were hard with the granite resolution of a man who had been forced to perform impossible tasks and had even more impossible tasks yet to perform. It was the face of a man whose visions were cosmic in content. Dotted about the far fields were the blunt ferry ships which formed the planetary link with the orbiting spacefleet. Around them a score of scudders swarmed like gnats, fetching and carrying services and personnel, hovering uncertainly, then darting swiftly to their destinations as the message of urgency spread among them. Occasionally new ferries would land and others depart. Groups of bewildered Onarian slaves were being driven to the wasteland and the ships refilled with Destroyer land crews hastily called back to join the battle fleet. Many long and anxious glances were directed toward the gray myth of a sun that might suddenly redden and expand to the dreaded sunflare. For one terrible moment this sad, pale world would know a summer more splendid than anything in its history. But accompanying the warmth and the light would come the bands of radiation and the increasing heat that would dry the seas, scorch the land and finally melt even the stubborn rocks for many kilometers down. Its happening was a predictable certainty, but the timing of the event was a matter about which nobody could be precise. Bron, too, was possessed by a rising measure of concern -- as if the cataclysmic nature of the impending doom held a psychological weighting that transcended his purely personal fear of death. His attention was drawn by a burst of activity as a new ferry landed nearer than the rest. Seven opentopped scudders, flying low with a deafening scream of engines, dropped in formation across the wasteland and halted only meters away. Cana motioned to Bron to climb aboard one of the craft, then turned back to look for Daiquist. He waited several minutes, looking alternately at his watch and at the sun, while a scudder pilot made frantic efforts to establish contact with Colonel Daiquist over the radio. Cana and Bron were joined by an increasing number of Destroyer personnel evacuating the nearby buildings. As each scudder became loaded to capacity Cana waved it away, indicating his preference to wait for a later craft. Since Bron was already seated in a scudder he found himself in a knot of anxious shipmen being whirled to a waiting ferry well 'in advance of Cana's own transport. Clad as he still was in the white robe and moreover, the known author of the current crisis, Bron could well have expected a high degree of antagonism from the Destroyers in whose company he had been thrown. Instead he encountered the respect due a highranking Destroyer dfficer. Steps were provided to enable him to dismount from the scudder when the ferry was reached and on the vessel itself his safety harness was made ready for him. After a seeming eternity the ferry lifted off, climbing rapidly under the hands of a skilled crew, confident even in an emergency. The IF docking with the mother ship was precise and Bron had the feeling that he had never seen similar action performed more professionally by any Commando crew. take him to the ship's bridge. Cana arrived there at about the same time. Almost immediately the ship began to throb with the overall thunder of the main gravity drive. The energy with which the drive was applied suggested that the ship's departure from its orbital station was a matter of crash urgency. Cana thrust him near one of the great navigational viewscreens and Bron could see precisely what the urgency was. He caught his breath as he gained a comprehension of the awesome sight. The scanners were trained on the sun upon which the little gray world had depended. But this sun was sparingly benevolent no longer. Broadly across its center spread a sunstorm of such frightening intensity that, even viewed from the ship's present distance of better than a hundred seemed to threaten to engulf all. But the boiling, granulated ferment of the storm was nothing compared to the astonishing outrush of the flaming, eruptive prominences, spreading probably t a tenth of the speed of light like fantastic, feathered nuclear flames. The whole sun appeared to contract and then to swell and to belch out its infinitely hotter interior fires with such hellish virulence that the scanners had repeatedly to attenuate their reception of the scene in order to compensate for the spiteful increases in luminosity. creased, so the feathered fingers of the sunflare fled farther and farther out into the massive volumes of space. It was impossible for Bron to judge the scale at which the boiling ebullition was portrayed, but the scanners panned repeatedly away from the initial spene in order to contain the rapid progress of the flare as it spread across the system. In advance of the visible extension, the vast increases in cosmic and ultraviolet radiation must already have punished the shielding atmospheres of the inhabitable planets beyond endurance. Even in this short time the second world must have become an irradiated hell. The third planet, which Cana had only just abandoned, must be under such a bombardment from the skies that life outdoors would be impossible and life indoors meant slow and certain death from the effects of primary and secondary radiation. The rapidity of the cataclysm far exceeded anything Bron had imagined. Occasionally the scanners picked up images of Destroyer ships, remote splinters of darkness ing holocaust. Each ship was engaged in a long, forced, trajectory its command hoped would clear it of the planetary system and take it to a point beyond the corrosive fingers of the enraged sun. T HE scanners swooped down to concentrate in detail on the third planet. The groan of anguish was audible. Seven Destroyer ships were still in orbit and most probably would remain so. Bathed in such a concentration of deadly radiation, it was certain that even their magnificent shielding could not prevent the destruction of their crews. From somewhere on the surface a ferry staggered into the sky, then lost control and, its drive still raging, nosed down again in a horrifying power dive to the planet's surface. Cana called for more detailed views and one by one the orbiting ships were scanned and identified. None of the trapped ships betrayed any possibility of being able to move and only a little more time would ensure their complete sterilization. One day, perhaps, it would be possible to reclaim the vessels. For the men who had taken the ships to the far corners of the galaxy there was no hope at all. Cana's flagship, Skua , fled well in advance of the grasping radiation fingers and soon the thundering urgency of the gravity drive relaxed to a normal pitch. But Cana himself signaled no such relaxation. His quiet anger still ran with a tide of energy frightening to behold. He called repeatedly for figures and data on the ships that got away -- and on the ones left behind. Finally he turned to Bron with a wrath that seethed like a. cauldron only a hair's breadth beneath the surface of his iron composure. "Do you know what you've done to me, Syncretist? You've cost me three inhabitable planets, at least seven ships, better than a thousand men -- and Martin Daiquist." He paused for a moment as words seemed to fail him. Then he continued, again fighting to prevent his anger from breaking surface. "One man, a bloody book and a headful of bio-electronics. Zeus! No wonder the patterns of chaos treat you with such respect. If this is what you can achieve as a prisoner -- I shudder to think what could happen to the universe if they gave you a fleet." IF He turned his head sorrowfully in the direction of the screens now filled by a swollen and distorted sun which had been provoked into destroying the satellite planets it had nurtured for so many millennia. "First I have to ensure my fleet is safe. Come to my cabin in an hour, Syncretist. We shall have a great deal to talk about." He walked away, calling for a conference Qf ships' captains and cursing the communications men who were fighting a losing battle with fierce electrical storms in an effort to maintain vital radio links in the face of an angered star. Bron lingered by the screens, still overwhelmed by the enormity of the havoc he had caused. Destruction on such a colossal scale using only four small Nemesis hellburners had been possible only because the perverse genius of his own mind had given iim an idea that had magnified the normal potential of the weapons not alone in appreciating his own talents for violent destruction. Somehow the dark entropic echoes of even more violent things he had yet to do were already throbbing their way through the continuum. He was facing a pre-destiny so immense in its effects that his assassination on Onaris had been years ago in another island universe, far across the terrifying voids of space. intruding on his reverie. Doc reckons you were lucky the sun didn't go nova, Bron . "Doc's back?" He's been back for hours -- replayin' the tapes and tryin' to get some answers. "Answers tp what?" He lost out at GenStaff They took his command away from him. They've handed the whole show over to bloody General Ananias. "Including control of the spacefleet?" Ananias has got the whole lot. He's now Senior Advisor to the General Staff "Where's Ananias now?" Still out on the Intelligence radio ship, I guess. A t least he's still interceptin' our transfer link to Antares. "Which means he could be online?" Correct , little soldier. Ananias's voice came in muffled but intel' ligible. Glad to see you're coming back on form. That was a piece of destruction that surpassed even your demoniac best. Trouble is, you hit at the wrong side. With you around we don't need any enemies. "Spool the noise, Ananias. You've got to stop the Commando space-fleet before they meet the Destroyers. Cana's fleet is battleready and desperate. I think they'd cut the Commandos to pieces." Relax , Bron. Those two fleets wont get within parsecs of each other . I've already taken care of that. But my real worry is you. You've not only forgotten that there was a plan -- youve even forgotten that it was your plan! Dont you remember anything? "Bits and pieces come back when I get a thread of connecting circumstances -- but the overall picture escapes me." Then, for your information , we two were up to our necks in a plot about a kilometer thick that could have gotten us hanged a dozen times had it gone wrong. The fact that we've not yet been hanged has been due almost entirely to some very fast talking on my part. But I cant keep carrying you -- nobody has a fund of luck that great. Youve got to get yourself straightened out -- and fast. In the meantime, dont make any major decisions without referring them to me. If you pull another crazy stunt like the last one welllikely lose Terra as a result. Jaycee, are you there ? On-line , Ananias. Look after this prize idiot. Were  taking the radio ship into subspace and we wont be able to maintain our interception of the transfer ,, link. If Bron moves out of line again  clobber him with every correction  circuit on the board. Til call you again as soon as we clear the jump... Engaged, Ananias. You must be j feelin very proud of yourself, you l i Godlostmewling. GenStaff has just confirmed their emergency decision. It seems that from this mo I ment we re all workin for you. Have I ever told you otherwise , honey-bitch? Didn't I always tell you to be nicer to the boss? But dont let circumstances fool you. I could never have cooked up a scheme half as big and twisted as this has turned out to be. The real insane architect of our misfortunes is on the other end of this transfer link. If he hadn't so conveniently lost his memory, hed tell you so himself. Lthe quality of the sound as Ananias cut his circuits out of the transmission. The difference made Bron more conscious of the background noises that entered his brain along with the hiss of the transferlink carrier. He was alarmingly aware now of the increased strength of the goose-mutter. Not only was IF it greater in volume -- it was also more menacing in texture. The previous babble of sounds was separating into discrete components, like the tones of individual geese talking through molasses. But whatever the language and whatever the nature of the creatures who uttered them, the urgent tones of overriding panic were implicit in the sound. The rhythmic tones of this alien invasion into his head broke like waves on a seashore -- but the waves were of waterglass and the creatures who generated them were drowning in a tide that swept shores far beyond the vast resources of the human Id. He realized with horror that if this emergent sound continued to increase in volume, there must soon come a time when it would swamp the human messages over the transfer link arid leave him isolated in a gulf of foaming, gelatinous babble. In order to rescue himself from these dark concerns Bron had to force himself to concentrate on his own circumstances. "Jaycee, is Ander still available?" On call , Bron . Do you want me to signal him? "Urgently. I must know what a chaos catalyst is." Engaged , Bron. It may take a few minutes to find him. By the way ,  suppose I ought to feel sorry for the way I handed you that punishment. It was intended to make you toe the line -- but I guess when you re involved as we are with each other it's almost impossible to keep your own feelin's out . "That moment was inevitable, Jaycee, wasn't it? It had to come. Do you ever think much about our relationship?" It's not an experience I'm likely to be forgettin if that's what you mean. "Ignoring the innuendo, that was roughly what I meant. It reminds me of the rapport -- the mysterious marriage of minds between torturer and tortured. You're more with me -- and more one with me -- than would be possible in any love-love coupling. I sometimes even think you know what I'm thinking." I frequently do. Partly instinctively and partly because you unconsciously sub vocalize a great deal of your thinkin. You don't transmit the thoughts too clearly , but I can often pick up the emotion . You don't know how I crawl when you touch other women and I can read the conflicts in your mind. "Crawl, Jaycee? And what other women? I haven't seen one this trip." TJhey're part of what you've forgotten. And crawl is the word I mean , damn you. When your selfpity and self-hate burst out and sour the love and the tenderness you should have for a woman , I feel I want to scream. I want to tell her -- tell them all -- that if they understood you as I understand you none of us would get hurt -- not them and not me. "Or me?" That isn't implicit in the relation ship , Bron . You re the sufferer and the cause of the sufferin' . That's your role. I don't care how much you suffer as long as our liaison's allowed to continue. I know I'm goin to suffer through you regardless -- and that's the fact that tells me how deeply I'm involved. Only sometimes the rapport isn't sufficient. I feel the urge to get my nails and teeth into your flesh to even up the score. I get -- high -- Oh, God! That's your type of chaos, Bron. Right across the universe you seem to reach out and etch bits off me. She broke off as if interrupted. After a short period she came back again. I've got Ander on-line , Bron. I'm leavin' him with you. Doc's takin over the board, so if jou want anythin' further he'll be available. I'm goin ' out to get pickled so high I'll probably make orbit. Another voice broke in on the transfer link. Ander speaking. You want to know about chaos catalysts?  i ES, Ander. I keep being told I am one." It's a fairly simple concept , Bron. You remember we established that increases or decreases in the normal rate of entropy were mainly the result of intervention by some form of intelligence such as Man's. Most individuals live their lives with very little effect on the overall pattern of entropy and therefore are not distinguishable singly. But there are a few whose influence catalyzes whole societies into new modes of action. The effective points of their lives can be traced with some precision by entropic analysis. They cause detectable chaos ripples as their activities alter the slope of entropic rise or depression. We call these individuals chaos catalysts . "What sort of individuals are they?" Most of the tyrants of history -- and a few of the saints. A lot of fundamentally great thinkers, mainly those concerned with physical science . Almost no politicians and many, like yourself, whose innate capacity for destruction has left or will leave a permanent scar on history. The names of most of them wouldn't be familiar to you, because the judgment is based not on contemporary values but on the verified effects of the altered course of human history. "But history has no verdict on IF me," objected Bron. Not yet . But the patterns of chaos have . If we read them forward into time we can read the violence of the effects of which you will one day be the cause. It was the intensity of your chaos effects that caused the destruction of Onaris. "That's a bit far-fetched, isn't it, Ander?" of years ago some intelligent  life form must have read the same things in the chaos patterns and been afraid. They could have had no means of knowing what was to be the origin of those ripples , but they plotted the position in space and time so accurately that the Onaris hellburner was correct within meters and only a little late in time. "But why pick on me?" I suspect they were trying to avert the consequences of something you re going to do -- you and the other chaos experts Cana has been collecting. But you re the prime catalyst, the main causal focus. I dont know what sort of thing you re going to do, but the shock spheres of the resultant are the most violent ever recorded. T HE clangor of the battle alarm shattered Bron's speculation and brought the ship's crew to a condition of readiness with speed and precision. In Bron the alarm keyed half-forgotten instincts and he automatically surveyed the Skuas bridge. With an increasingly professional eye he came to recognize the various conventions of Destroyer spacewar techniques and to translate them into terms he could understand. Then he stopped, perplexed. Instinctively his eyes had gone toward the detectors and screens that should logically be the sources of warning of approaching danger. But the screens were blank. Not one of them held a signal that could be interpreted as the cause of a battle alarm. Likewise the detectors, while straining to search the far recesses of the void, gave no clear voice to the suggestion of approaching trouble. The eyes of the crew were intent on the computer bank, whose digital signals were trimming and correcting the detection instruments as if anticipating some nemesis as yet well below the threshold limits of the apparatus. The situation reminded Bron of the hiatus before the Onaris hellburner had come into detection range. Here was the same atmosphere of awe and expectancy -- a situation that began in anticipation. "Doc, are you there?" On-line, Bron. "Make sure all the recorders are in trim. Something critical is coming up." Engaged. By the way , do you want to give me any explanations before I have to turn my records over to the Commando Provost? "I don't read you, Doc. What sort of charge could the Provost lay against me?" If it's in the Criminal Indices , it'll be in the indictment. "Try a specific summary, L haven't got much time." Specifically, suppression of intelligence data, falsification of intelligence reports, manipulating Commando funds to finance unauthorized projects and various charges of espionage, sabotage and treason. "That's enough to be going on with. I don't remember a damn thing about any of those, so I can't argue. How do you fit into all this, Doc?" Vm a very disappointed man. I've worked five years with you on this project, Bron -- five years that have taken more out of me than I had to give . And what do I find? You and Ananias have been using me. Playing me for a fool. "You're no fool, Doc, and I'm sure I never took you for one. There's a good reason behind all this -- only I can't quite figure it for the moment." Then I suggest you ask Ananias, because Commando Central is gunning for him as well. "I thought Ananias was currently on top." Politically, yes. But legally the Commando Provost's building a case against both of you that even Ananias's patrons on the General Staff wont be able to quash. I've tried to help you, but there's nothing I can do unless you can give me an assist. "I can't, Doc. I would if I could. But stay on-line, because some of the answers are out here and one of them could be the thing just coming up." While he had beep speaking, the detectors had increasingly tightened their positions in response to the computer's prognostication. Bron realized then, in the absence of any electronic returns by the instruments, that the current state of emergency had to be based entirely on real-time chaos predictions. The complex and diminutive ripples of the entropic waves provided the point on which the instruments were being aligned. G radually the screens began to display a slight electronic fuzz at the outer limits of their detection capability and well outside attack range. With some dismay he noted that the Weapons Control group did not appear to be IF following the hardening settings. To check this he started across the deck. A hand arrested him. He turned to face Cana, who had come behind him unnoticed. "I can guess what you're thinking, Syncretist -- but it won't work. Chaos predicts the alien vessel within firm plotting range inside ten minutes. It also predicts that we're going to lose a ship. As soon as we can locate the alien accurately enough we'll open fire on it. But we won't alter the outcome -- because we're reading the chaos resultant of an event which has to take place. As far as the patterns of chaos are concerned, the loss of one of our ships is already a matter of historical fact." "Not to me it isn't," said Bron. "You'll soon have the alien's approach plotted in three dimensions plus the time component, with all the accuracy you need to make a kill. Are you trying to tell me that you can't put sufficiently heavy weapons down that line to destroy anything that has space capability?" "Of course we can try," said Cana. "But you still haven't grasped the essential fact. We know our weaponry will not be effective, because we already know what the result will be. You can't alter a future event for which you can read the firm resultant." "Why not?" asked Bron. "Because to alter the unalterable is a contradiction in terms. By definition, you're defeated before you can begin to compose your defense. How can you hope to win a battle which future history has already determined you've lost?" "I can see the argument, but I don't accept it. I don't see how the paradox could resolve itself -- but that's chaos's problem, not mine." Cana looked at Bron searchingly, then turned with swift decision. "Weaponsmaster, the Syncretist will direct the battle. Take his instructions as though they were mine." Bron needed no second bidding. With long experience of Commando spacewar behind his intuition, he moved swiftly into action, briefing the Weapons Control crew to secure an immediate lock on the chaos coordinates. Then he turned back to Cana. "I presume you have chaos analysts who determine which patterns the computer is to process. I need to speak to them." Cana signaled a communications man, who handed Bron a handset. "Chaos complex on-line." "Fine! Correct me if I'm wrong, but we're nearing a chaos resultant which appears to indicate the destruction of a Destroyer ship by alien fire." "Da's correct." "What in the chaos evidence leads you to infer that the resultant is, in fact, the destruction of a Destroyer ship?" "Damn sure is ship. Eighteen teramegaton explosion don' happen in empty space unless ship and powerplant blow. Space-time coordinates indicate the corvette Anne Marie as only possible target approachin' that poin'. We already issued evacuation instructions for the crew." "Then cancel them. I want the Anne Marie powered and headed out of the area before the resultant comes to term." "You can' do that!" the voice was aghast. "You can' beat chaos!" Bron turned back to Cana. "Confirm that order for me, will you? I've got something else to arrange." He turned back to Weapons Control, began a rapid interrogation. The results were negative. He called the communications man to a conference and outlined his plan swiftly. In the face of his logic, nobody argued. In less than a minute they all knew what had to be arranged. Bron's radical approach begat an attitude of enthusiasm both infectious and in direct contrast with the former air of fatalistic acceptance. Only Cana remained unconvinced, but he did not interfere. By now the alien vessel was clear on the screens By human standards it was a monstrosity -- an unfinished bulk of black and sinister metal, blunt, rodlike and uninspired. Although it was moving at below light speed, its velocity was still greater than that of the Skua and her sisters. At this distance the alien appeared eyeless and utterly without the finesse required of a vessel with deep-space capability. As the battle-computer verified its position, the alien's image steadied under the crossed hairs of the screen and the final lock-on of instruments went to completion. The Weapons Control crew was now fully attentive to the task of adjusting the last few decimal places for a detailed fix, which was at the extreme end of their weapon range. The weaponsmaster, taking post at the communications set, talking rapidly to his opposites in other Destroyer vessels, half-turned to watch the coordinates race across the computer's readout panel. The agreement came swiftly. All positions were set and maintained on lock by the battle computer. There would be no opportunity to rethink tactics if the experiment failed. Bron watched the critical registers run toward zero and nodded his acceptance. Human fingers keyed off the safety devices and the conduct of the battle passed into electronic IF hands whose reactions were limited in speed by the velocity of light alone. But nobody on the bridge was deceived about the real nature of the confrontation. This was Bron the Syncretist against the inexorable patterns of chaos. XV J Doc r All the way, Bron . Alien as they come. No Cana trickery there. And that raises a whole load of questions. The Ter ran government has always denied the possibility of an alien menace and especially the possibility of alien life forms crossing the void. The last election was fought on the strength of that promise. Seems they're wrong on both counts. "And Cana was right. The Onaris hellburner was obviously out of the same stable. It was the aliens who destroyed Onaris. And if Cana was innocent of that, how sure are we of his part in the destruction of the other planets credited to him?" You ought to know , Bron. It was mainly you and Ananias who built up the case against the Destroyers. Tm transmitting these tapes to GenStaff. The Defense Council's going to have to do some radical rethinking in the face of this evidence. I'm recalling Jaycee to the board, but I'll stay on-line until she comes. "Engaged." Bron watched the screens critically as the detectors cautioned that the alien ship was closing to target range. He was possessed by an unexplainable sense of something wrong, but was initially unable to place it. Then he realized that the goose-mutter in his head had died to a quiet hiss. This was not a mere attenuation of the signal -- the fidelity was better than ever -- but the noise was subdued, held a suggestion of hushed expectancy, as if its alien originators were also spectators of the incident about to take place. Then, from the Skuas mighty projectors, the long, slim tubes of the space torpedoes carrying diffract-meson warheads slid silently into the soundlessness of space on an intercept course. So accurate was the plotting that each would find its appointed place on the target within meters. Such accuracy was unnecessary, since a diffract-meson missile could destroy any known vessel with space capability if detonated within fifty kilometers of its target -- but Bron had opted to take not even the slightest chance. Such was the range of the screens that the bright needles indicating the torpedoes appeared to move like snails toward the alien, though in reality their velocity approximated one-hundredth of the speed of light. As yet the alien showed no sign of putting up a defensive screen against the attack or of taking any evasive action. Shortly a second salvo of missiles left the Skuas projectors. These were heavy power mines of more conventional nuclear design. Their direction was not toward the alien but to the theoretical point in space where chaos had declared an explosion must soon take place. Nor was the Skua alone in this action. Seven other Destroyer craft were also contributing a complement of highpowered explosives to converge on this same point. Of all the ships in the neighborhood, the dark alien alone issued no fire and gave no sign of anticipated combat. It carved its way solidly through space as if no battle existed. The goosemutter became inaudible. The torpedoes reached their target first. The fantastic flare of the dozen diffract-meson reactions overloaded the scanners and dropped the screens into a blankness that lasted many seconds. When the screens came back to life again, gasps of dismay came from watchers on the bridge. The alien vessel was both undestroyed and apparently undisturbed. It continued to plough a steady course into the middle of the Destroyer fleet, having survived a particulate reaction calculated to annihilate completely any object made of any material found in the known universe. A few moments later the power mines converged in space to form the eighteen tera-megaton explosion at the empty point where chaos analysis had predicted the Anne Marie should have been but for Bron's intervention. The corvette itself had been hastily diverted and now lay witnessing the harmless diversion of its own fate. The explosion formed the entropic resultant required to justify the existence of the particular chaos wavefront and effectively substituted for the ship Bron had saved. Cana's eyes were alive with speculation. "Thank you, Syncretist! You begin to reveal a little of your promise. No other man in history has ever managed to manipulate a chaos resultant successfully. You didn't learn that trick in any mad seminary on Onaris -- and I doubt it's standard Commando practice, either. You're not only a born catalyst but also a very remarkable" man." sudden cry from the operator at the screens. He turned. The IF image of the alien ship was being held in full focus and magnified to fill the limits of the frame. Although the diffract-meson impacts had done no obvious damage, they had apparently thrown the vessel out of its bald trajectory. Now the  monstrous creation was rolling and tumbling, not so much in the manner of a ship thrown out of control as like a stick thrown idly into a wind. Bron and the Destroyers watched in fascination as the uncouth and mammoth cylinder rolled slowly end over end. They were treated to a good view of its imprecision as a ship, but gained no idea at all of its purpose or its mode of function. Then a shocking fact revealed itself. As the vessel turned it became apparent that its rear end was either missing or else had never existed. There were no drive tubes, no reaction mechanisms, no continuation even of an end wall. The whole vast structure was no more than an empty shell, a cylinder closed at one end and open to space at the other. It had no contents and no internal partitions. What form of mystery had accelerated it to such a velocity while holding it true along its major axis was a question Bron felt totally incapable of answering. The drama deepened as he watched incredulously. The tumbling enigma passed centrally through the point where the substitute explosion had occurred and continued blindly onward. The screens adjusted suddenly past it, as if seeking foreknowledge of its destination. The graticule settled on the distant image of another corvette, the Jubal . Barely had the gain been adjusted to produce a reasonable image when the dark, alien cylinder hit the Jubal like a throwing-stick striking a bird in flight. The conclusion was even less anticipated. By some unholy reac tion both the Jubal and the alien artifact broke up -- not apparently through force, but through a kind of mutual disintegration. There was no explosion, no obvious release of energy, merely a crazy annihilation of the mass of both bodies as they came into physical contact. Incredibly, each seemed to contain a state of matter that was the antithesis of the other. The effect was a kind of cancellation of the existence of both, with no manifestation of the latent energy that should have been the consequence of the complete destruction of so much mass. Shortly the only evidence of the event was a small quantity.of space flotsam and an enigmatic question mark in the minds of the men who had observed it. jLjL mutter rose to a crescendo inside Bron's head. Automatically he thought of it as the cheering of a vast crowd, yet the unintelligible semantic undertones were more indicative of fear than jubilation. However, the aliens were certainly witnesses to the event, because the timing of their resurgence was too precise to be coincidental. His mind tried to contain their alienness, but balked at the task. These creatures were things with means and talents beyond the ken of anything in human experience. He had no inbuilt references on which to hang his hazy concepts of them. Only two things they seemed to share with human kind -- hostility and fear. Cana said, "We seem to have worthy enemies, Syncretist. They're taking you on at your own game." "How do you mean?" asked Bron. "You cheated chaos by substituting your own reason for the existence of a wave in the pattern. They countered by destroying the Jubal by means that would not produce an entropic wave. By chaos analysis your method is indistinguishable from a real event, theirs, from a classic non-event. Which means we stand a very good chance of winning." "How do you compute that?" Cana smiled tiredly. "My dear Syncretist, we have evidence, such as the Qnaris hellburner, that the aliens have been experimenting of years. I was watching you just now and your reactions were instinctive. You evolved an answer comparable with theirs in something under seven minutes. Now I see why they're so afraid of you." A furious burst of static in his head warned Bron of something occurring on the transfer link. Then a muffled but recognizable voice broke in. Ananias on-line. Do you read me, honey-bitch? Veeder reading you, Ananias. What the hell's going on? Listen in. Doc , and keep a line open to GenStaff. I've already sent in my report. This next session's going to be critical. Bron , are you reading me? "Like a book, Ananias. What's the readout?" We've just cleared subspace and made rendezvous with the Com ntando fleet on the Rim. I've a task force of sixty-eight ships here, all battle-ready and eager for a radio as well as on the transfer link because I want Cana to hear what I have to say. "I hope you're not thinking of threatening him. He's easily got twice the firepower you can muster." IF Threaten him ? You must be out of your tiny addled mind . We haven t come to threaten -- we've come to join him . Chaos predicts the main alien spacefleet only a few days out in the void . From the looks it's a bloody armada rather than a fleet -- and it's going to do a hell of a lot of damage. Bron turned to Cana. "General Ananias is trying to contact you on alien main fleet is only a few days out and he wants to bring the Commando fleet to help." "Tell him I'll talk to him," said Cana. "I'd been wondering if he ever would keep the pact we made on the Tantalus after we rescued him from the void." room Bron supervised the adtions web until two-way contact was established with Ananias. Cana waited impatiently until he could speak the first word. "General Ananias -- my intelligence network gives me no favorable impression of your attitude toward the so-called Destroyer federation of planets." "I warned you at our last meeting, Cana, that such a situation might be necessary." Indeed yes. But for the benefit of the Commando authorities who may have access to this conversation, I should prefer to hear the record set out plainly." "As you wish. You know as well as I that the alien menace is a real and active threat not only to the Rim Dependencies, but to your federation -- and ultimately to Terra itself. We've both known this for many years. Unfortunately, such has been the insecure structure of Terran governments over that period that any account of alien threats to our galaxy has been rejected as irresponsible alarmism. The Terran standpoint is untenable. I have been in the void in command of the Tantalus and have personally witnessed the sort of physical threat posed by the aliens. You yourself must know only too well what type of danger they are to our existence. I think you'll agree the evidence shows they appear to have no intention of allowing humans any sort of foothold in space." "I agree with your summary this far, General. But you dodge the issue. Why have you so persistently vilified the Destroyer nations?" "I'm not dodging the issue. I'm attempting to explain. Since I was unable to convince the Terran government about the alien threat I had to adopt a more extreme tactic. It was obviously necessary for Terra's defense that a strong spacefleet be developed and maintained. In connivance with Commander Bron of Stellar Commando Intelligence, we deliberately attributed facets of the alien's longrange attacks to the Destroyers. By this ruse we were able to encourage Terra to invest in a superior defensive spacefleet oh the misguided assumption that the Destroyers were the real enemy. Neither Bron nor myself ever believed this, but we consistently misreported the evidence to make it appear to be the truth. For some reason you were a credible danger, while the aliens were not. Since Bron is now in your hands l must make it clear that he was the major architect of our policy of deception. He is also one of the most powerful chaos catalysts our analysts have ever detected For this reason we decided to manipulate him into the situation with the greatest concentration of firepower. That's why you now find him in your camp rather than ours." "Is this true, Syncretist?" asked Cana. "I wouldn't know," said Bron. "But it does supply a lot of missing pieces. Did you say I planned this, Ananias?" "Every crooked move of it, Bron. It was a scheme that suited your talent for playing the system against itself. You tricked the Commandos into sending you right into the hands of the Destroyers -- which was where you most wanted to be. Only a few of us knew that you went to join the Destroyers rather than fight them. The trouble was, you nearly undid all of us when you lost your memory halfway through the act." "Accepting that. General," said Cana, "what proposition had you in mind?" "With the evidence of this transfer-link conversation added to my own reports, Terra can no longer deny that the alien threat exists. Whether she likes it or not, Terra is now committed to help you agairtst the common enemy. But however close the cooperation, I v can't see Terra permitting her fleets to come under Destroyer control." "Do they need to?" asked Cana. "Come!" reproached Ananias. "You know the inverse square law as applied to spacewar battle tactics. Two small independent fleets have only a twenty-five percent chance of survival compared with one larger coordinated fleet." "That's statistically correct, but it still raises an impasse. Since we were lately enemies I can't happily IF subscribe to the notion of the Destroyer fleet becoming subject to Terran control." "Then here's my proposition. If I can swing Terran opinion, would you be prepared for both fleets to come under Bron? He's an experienced battlecommander. He's certainly the prime chaos catalyst at this time -- and his location with your fleet seems to be an effective compromise between Terran and Destroyer viewpoints." tively. "I've lost Martin Daiquist, my lieutenant, so I don't have a candidate of my own to offer. Having seen Bron in action just, now. I'm prepared to believe that he's the one man who can handle the job. I can accept your proposition only if both fleets are subject entirely to his control -- and without his being subject to pressure from Terran sources." Jaycee on-line , Bron. Jaycee's voice came into Bron's head alone and was not repeated over the speakers. We've rerouted the transfer link so as not to interfere with Ananias's broadcast. GenStaff s been monitoring your conversation on-line , and they're in agreement with Ananias's scheme , if you want to follow through. The final decision's up to you . "That was quick, Jaycee. What shook them up?" Bron spoke subvocally. Partly the tapes Doc took from your earlier report and partly the fact that fourteen planets of the Rim Dependencies have stopped transmitting. Three of them got out messages saying they were being attacked by something from the void. They were certain it was not the Destroyers. There was a major defense panic until somebody realized that you and Ananias already had the situation solved. Are you going to take the job?" "It's not the decision, it's the capability that worries me. Yes, I'll take it -- but get hold of Ander and put him to checking through the tapes on the encounter with that alien ship-thing. There may be chaos implications there that we've missed. Certainly unless our weaponry is more effective than it was then, we're lost before we start." Engaged , Bron. I'll be reportin' as soon as we get some answers. Bron turned back to Cana, who had been watching the progress of the unheard conversation as it was mirrored on Bron's face. "I have Terran GenStaffs agreement to your terms. I'll take the job on the assurance that I won't be subjected to pressures from you either." "You have my word on it," said Cana. "I warn you," said Bron, "it'll be a rough ride. A little while ago you lost a perfectly good corvette to a sort of alien throw-away container. If we can't get the better of a garbage can by using diffractmeson warheads, then what the hell do you think is gojng to happen when we meet their battle fleet?" "I don't know," said Cana heavily. "I've been living with that specter for years. Because of it I forged the independent planets into the Destroyer Federation, knowing all the time that we never really stood a chance if the aliens crossed the void in force. But I'm growing older and it's going to be a war for swift brains and nimble fingers. I'd groomed Martin for the job -- but he couldn't survive you. Somehow I doubt the aliens will have any better luck. There's something about you, Syncretist, that is unassailable." l. "Fourteen planets of the Rim Dependencies have stopped transmitting. Presumably some of the aliens got there first. Can you send a scout formation and get some positive information? Also relay to me data on what classes of ships you have available and details of their armaments. Too, you must have some kind of chaos computing complex. I want a full hookup with Cana's chaos men. The aliens have a few hundred chaos and I want us to catch up fast." Engaged, Bron. You know, this is quite like old times -- "Then get off-line and get busy. Put a few scoutships out in the void and try to get us some facts and figures about the strength and disposition of the alien fleet. And stay off the transfer link. Use the extreme emergency." There was the sudden cessation of the hiss of a carrier wave as Ananias cut out his circuits. Npw that the bio-electronic relay had less to contend with, he was again conscious of the sound of drowning geese. Perhaps twenty individual voices predominated over the general babble and these prime spokesmen rippled across the audible spectrum in a hideously broken yodel, as though their voices were modulated by large bubbles rising through a silo of molasses. Their mood sounded nervous, quick and urgent, as if indicating that time was a critical factor of their actions. The babble was hypnotic and he was powerless to shut it out. The rise and fall of the anxious spokesIF men suggested the swell of a stygian river, while the quieter, more powerful background mutter was that of a pressing tide. Perhaps an ultrasonic ceiling to the echo in the voices gave the impression of a cavern roof, caught under hundreds of kilometers of dark pressure, yet extending onward like a dreadful pipe leading into an unknown darkness. He had no doubt now that these were the voices of the aliens in the void. By some obscure trick of physics, their communications system infringed on his own transfer link. If their voices could fetch him such strange and alien visions, he wondered equally what the byplay between Jaycee and himself could mean to them. He was not eveir sure at times what it meant to him -- let alone her. "Superbly researched, well-edited, and outstandingly valuable for this moon-struck era -- a book so expertly chosen and commented upon as to practically numb the reviewer's brain...Moon-connected #thf #th ,and #th-century writings comprising social satire, political lampoonery, and science-fiction... and giving hew visibility to old works by authors forgotten today, also to such notables as Cyrano de Bergerac and Edgar Allen Poe." -- Charles Cooke, Washington Star and Other Lunar Fantasies Edited by Faith K. Pizor  T. Allan Comp Introduction by # Isaac Asimov Praeger Publishers #I Fourth Avenue, New York, # Nature may cast you in one role , success in another! T HE moment the transporter Observatory lens) and grinned at landed on his roof, Joe Slobkin me. "You don't have to worry about came running to meet me. me, old buddy. Even if I am the I could tell at a glance that suemost intelligent-type agent in Hollycess hadn't gone to his head. Apwood, which modesty forbids I parently it had moved in the other should mention." direction, for he was wearing a Leading me along the flat roof, he pair of ermine shorts. paused before the transporter as "Same old Joe," I said. the uniformed pilot saluted him. "Why not?" He took off his dia"Park it in the hangar with the mond-studded sunglasses (ground 'others," he ordered, specially for him by the same team The pilot clicked his heels. "Will that had worked on the Moonbase that be all, sir?" "Yeah. Take the rest of the day off. But before you go remember to feed the elephant." "You have a pet elephant?" I murmured. "Who said anything about pets? Some of my musician clients are alia time coming over and banging on my grand piano. I got tired of replacing the busted keys, so I; figgered it would be cheaper raising my own ivory. In this business you gotta watch all the angles." I bad no answer to that, so I turned and stared down at the palatial expanse of San Simoleon, the Slobkin estate. "Quite a view, huh?" he commented. "On a clear day you can see the smog." I shook my head. "How did you ever manage to find a place surrounded entirely by mountains?" "Just wanted privacy, dig? Matter of fact it wasn't surrounded. When I came here it had mountains on only three sides. I built the fourth one myself." "And that kidney-shaped swimming pool -- " "You like it? Had a doctor design it for me. Modeled after one of my own kidneys. On the other side I got a liver-shaped swimming pool. Which I don't use, on account of hepatitis." Slobkin led me to the elevator andwe descended to the Grand Ballroom. A golden fountain cascaded merrily at one end, and Slobkin produced glasses that he held beneath the spray. "How's for some champagne?" I took the glass, staring in admiration at his tattooed arm. "Neat, huh?" He flexed his biceps. "It's an original Picasso. You know, Sidney Picasso, the'old-time artist's grandson. Had him do it the last time I was in Paris. Some day I'll get something put on my chest. Maybe one of them there Remnants, or Rembrands, whatever." "Rembrandt is dead," I said. "Hell, too bad. I should of caught him on the first trip." Slobkin led me to a sofa before the fireplace, at which silent, unobtrusive servitors were barbecuing a yak on a spit. We settled back in comfort. "Let's rap about you," he said. "Been over three years since we huddled. What's the scam?" "Nothing to tell. I'm still a freelance writer." Slobkin frowned. "Same bag, huh? Speaking of which, I bet you still got the same wife, too. You never did have no ambition. Look what I done in the past couple years." "I'm looking," I told him. "And I still can't believe it. Just think, when I met you, all you had was desk space in that little office over on Smogset Strip." His frown deepened. "That paytoilet! No wonder I never got nowhere being an agent -- crowded into the same room with ten other guys. Why, in those days I didn't even have a spot to pitch in." I nodded. "You couldn't get a line into the studios. I remember how excited you were the .first time you landed a part for a client. Who was that, anyway?" "It was a chimpanzee," Slobkin said. "I had a deal lined up with Paranoid Pictures. They were to use him as somebody's stand-in for Beyond The Backside Of The Planet Of The Apes. Only he bombed. Once the chimp got a whiff of makeup he decided to quit show biz aid go into politics." Slobkin grimaced with angry distaste. "Believe me,  didn't vote for him. But he got in anyway. More champagne? Or a little caviar, maybe? I'll have one of the boys run down to the pond and squeeze out a sturgeon." "Never mind." I gestured him back into his seat. "What I want to know is what happened to you. How did the change come about?" "ivr o change '" j  e siobkin told me solemnly. "Just the old switcheroo, that's all. The old switcheroo." "You're going to tell me about it, aren't you?" "Sure. That's why I had you come out here. Figured you could use a story. And this one's a grabber. This one I could break with any of the services. But I wanted it should go to you, baby." Slobkin chewed sentimentally on the end of his cigar. I leaned forward. "Would it by any chance happen to concern your two biggest clients? Has it something to do with Ricky Ticky and Michele Belch?" Slobkin nodded. "I'll tell it like it is." And he did, just as I'm putting it down here. Only the grammar has been changed, to protect the innocent. Three years ago (Joe Slobkin told me) there was no such person as Ricky Ticky. There was no such person as Michele Belch. There was just poor old Joe Slobkin, the tenpercenter, sitting in his little deskspace and trying to figure out how he could live on ten percent of nothing. And there was a kid named Oscar Fink and a chick named Irma Schmutz. "Very straight," Slobkin said. "And loaded with talent. This Irma N Schmutz could do anything -- sing, dance or play all kinds of instruments, including musical. Oscar Fink was great, too. Particularly on imitations. That stud could do a take-off on anybody Really a natIF ural, dig? But neither of 'em had a dime and neither of 'em had a chance. I guess that's why they finally ended up with me. "Well, I did my best, but it was like nowhere. Two of 'em got acquainted in my office and they used to come in together, sort of like a team. One day they leaned on me -- wanted to know what was wrong. So I laid it on them. "I told 'em the whole hangup was they were weak in the looks department. This Irma Schmutz was just what you might call an average bird. Brown hair, thin face, a little on the tall side. Also, her chest was flat enough to play Scrabble on, if that's your kick. "Oscar Fink was in even worse shape, what there was of it. He was short, had kind of a high voice and ran to fat. "So what's a guy gonna do? You know how important the old image is in this industry. And I put it to them just that way, let it all hang out. "Nobody was happy when I got finished. Irma said, 'But Oscar is a good mimic. He doesn't have to be a gr#ovy-looking stud for that, does he?' And Oscar said, 'Irma can play and sing and dance even with her clothes on -- what more do you want?' "I told 'em it wasn't a question of what I wanted. It's what the public wants. Brown-haired, flatchested babes don't get to be stars -- they just get married. "And that's where Oscar Fink came up with the beginning of the switcheroo. "He told me something I should of figgered for myself all along. 'Fake it,' he said. 'All you got to do is fake it. What kind of chicks made it in the oldtime movies? Right from the beginning it's been big-busted blondes -- Jean Harlow, Marilyn Monroe and all those other broads. How many of them used their real names? How many of them were real blondes? How many of them had natural big busts?' "Well, I had to admit he was right, at least about the names and the blonde part of it. The busts I never had a chance to investigate, not firsthand, that is. "Oscar Fink poured it on. 'So you change her name,' he said. 'And dye her hair. And you do a little shopping for falsies at Farmer's Market or wherever. Teach her to wiggle when she walks and pitch her voice lower. No problem.' "This got Irma all excited. Don't forget Oscar, either,' she said. 'Maybe he looks more like a crud than a stud, but he has talent. What about all the hard-rock and souL singers with the way-out names? They weren't handsome either, but you couldn't see their faces under the hair. They mostly didn't sing, just howled. Like this.' And she ups with a demonstration which is like to tear my ears off. O got nothing to lose. First off, we change the names. From now on there ain't no Irma Schmutz and Oscar Fink any more. From now on you're gonna be -- let's see -- Michele Belch and Ricky Ticky.' "Just like that the names come to me. After which I slammed out a couple of fake biographies, got in touch with some flacks who owed me a few favors, went out and bought them a mod wardrobe on credit, rounded up an electronic guitar from a hockshop, and we were rolling." Joe Slobkin paused to catch his breath, and his third glas.s of champagne. "You don't have to tell me any more," I said. "Everybody knows what happened after that. Michele Belch got a walk-on bit in a familytype home-nudie and became a sensation the moment she stopped walking and started to lie down. Ricky Ticky signed with an obscure recording company -- Obscure Records, wasn't it? -- got a few numbers on cassettes -- and the phones began to ring all over the country. It's been a pushover all the way." Joe Slobkin shook his head. "That's what you think. Only it wasn't quite so easy." "But all this happened, didn't it?" "Sure it happened. Only not at first." "What did happen first, then?" "They bombed." I frowned. "You mean the scheme didn't work?" "That's right, baby. It didn't work. Changing names wasn't enough. Planting stories wasn't enough. I ought to have figured it from the start. Maybe a smart flesh-peddler can take a skinny little chick and build her up into a real C-cup personality. Maybe he can turn an insignificant little insect into another Beatle. But he's got to have something going for him if he wants to hit the top ten on the Porno Graph. The chick has to be sexy; the guy has to put a gutfeeling into his vocal chords. Trouble is, all these two had was ability. And so they bombed." I stared at him. "How can you say that? They did make it. The stories are true, you built them up, made big stars out of them, made Joe Slobkin smiled patiently. "Later. After I figured out the angle." IF "What angle? Is that the story you're giving me an exclusive on?" The little agent turned pale. "Not "This is all off the record, get me? The yam I want you to break is -- " "Joe, baby-!" My head swiveled at the interruption, then nearly fell off as Michele Belch wriggled into the room. She was every bit as blonde, as bosomy and as beautiful as in my wildest dreams. She was puffing on an Acapulco roach. "Hiya sweetheart!" It was Ricky Ticky, in the flashy flesh; tangled hair mopping his thin forehead and his velvet blue-jeans glued to his gluteus maximus with a crotch-clutching closeness. "Everything set?" Joe Slobkin inquired. "Copasetic." Ricky nodded at Michele. "We trans off for New Vegas in five minutes, right from your pad here. Be married in an hour. Got my guitar all packed for the honeymoon." "Beautiful!" Joe Slobkin beamed and advanced on Michele. "How's the bride? Got enough luggage and everything?" "Just my hope chest," she replied, with a shy downward glance at the article in question. I gulped. "This is true? These two are going to be hitched?" Slobkin nodded at me. "Eloping right now. That's why I got you over here. In a couple of hours the wiretapes will have the whole enchilada -- but it's yours, right now, in advance. Minute they leave, you get on the com and make a deal with the media for your exclusive. Tomorrow you'll be made, baby -- the guy who beat old Jill Haber and Bill Katz to the biggest news item of the century." He turned and faced the loving couple. "This guy's my buddy," he murmured. "I want you two to cooperate -- answer any questions he lays on you." "I've got no questions," I said. "I think I can handle it without a routine interview, and something tells me you're botji anxious to get on your way." "Yeah." Slobkin nodded, frowning at Ricky Ticky. "Something tells me the same thing, and get your hands off her until the honeymoon. Or at least until you're on the trans." Ricky Ticky grinned at me. "Mighty nice of you to understand." I took a deep breath. "Just one favor, though. Uh -- could I kiss the bride?" Michele Belch gave me a surprised look. Then she took the ciggy out of her mouth, crushed it and stood indecisively for a moment, holding it in her hand. A quick glance was exchanged between her and Ricky. Then, with a coy gesture, she waved her butt at me. ward. Somehow I hadn't reckoned on the bearskin in front of the fireplace. My heel caught in the bear's open jaws and I slipped. My hands, seeking to encircle Michele's shoulders, grabbed at her hair instead. It came off. "Holy Toledo!" cried Joe Slobkin "Get the hell out of here! Ricky Ticky began to sob. "Now look what's happened! He'll spill it -- I know he'll spill it!" "No he won't!" Slobkin shouted. "He's with it. Besides, I was gonna tell him anyway, after you left. Just cut out now, before anybody else sees you. Split!" He herded them off in the direction of the elevator, and I sank back on the sofa as the babble of their voices died away in the distance. A moment later Joe Slobkin returned. Silently he handed me a glass of champagne and silently I drank it. "So that's how it is,' I said. "Yeah." He sighed deeply, then shallowly. "That's how it is. I told you they bombed. And then I lucked out. "I got to thinking about the way they'd given me a pitch that day in the office. Here was a kid who could imitate anybody -- so why not an imitation of a chick? What was wrong with giving him the falsies, and maybe a good wig? "And here was a chick who had talent for any instrument and a voice that could lift the roof off an outhouse at three hundred feet. Why not let her grow the mop and wear the jeans? So I put it to them, and they bought it, and the rest is like history." "Unisex, eh?" "Right," Slobkin assured me. "Like I told you, it's nothing but the old switcheroo." Many months have passed since the truth was revealed to me there in the Grand Ballroom of Slobkin's estate. Since that time the marriage of Ricky Ticky and Michele Belch has reached the point where a blessed event is in the offing. I tv view of this fact, their secret can remain a secret no longer, and I am thus privileged to reveal the facts. What I'm really hoping for now is that my old friend Joe Slobkin will see fit to give me another exclusive story. I'd like a scoop on the impending birth. But up to this time, Joe Slobkin hasn't quite made up his mind whether they're going to have a boy or a girl. # IF (Continued from page #) recognized by any of our highly regarded science fiction authors? To my mind only one has come anywhere close: John Brunner with The Jagged Orbit and Stand on Zanzibar. After all , it is still our duty to be concerned with reality as well as possibility. David Riddle Paxtang , Pa. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Many thanks for the most hopeful and encouraging story in years. I refer , of course, to Dazed by Theodore Sturgeon (Galaxy, Sept. # #I h I I wish it were true -- and in that respect I am encouraged by his statement that "belief of disbelief has no effect on objective truth." Judith Guccione Dear Mr. Jakobsson: As a newcomer to the readership of If lam lacking of certain information. Mainly , how to purchase a copy of Galaxy to find out whether or not I wish to subscribe to it. I have not been able to find it on any of my local newsstands or anywhere else and I am interested in having a look at it. Now, as regards If, specifically Gambler's Choice in the March April '#I issue, I have a slight correction. In the problem stated, as any student of probability will tell you, all the fractions involved are what is called mutually exclusive. That is, simply put, only one of the circling torpedoes must be hit twice. Multiplying the fractions ##, ##... ## wjll give the chances of hitting one torpedo for a second time on every shot, provided, of course, that the number of torpedoes hit oncexpands miraculously after each successful shot. The proper equation for a situation where the odds change between attempts is the first odds (##) added to the second odds (##) minus the product of the two (this allows for overlap) for two attempts. Since Mr ; Shaw has given Mr. Targe tt # shots, the answer to: I  # # #-( ##x# #) must be added to the next fraction: ## and the product of those two subtracted and on and on till ## is reached and operated upon. In other words , for any two mutually exclusive probabilities (A  B), the total probability is equal to AB-AB . For three fractions this rapidly expands to: ( AB AB)C-(A B-AB)xC. For twentyfive fractions (not including zero, because A#-Ax#  A) the problem is enormous. The reason for my delay in writing this is because I have finally been given access to a computer. With a simple loop the computer can solve the problem. The chances are # in Mr. Targett's favor , or three out of five. The odds are three to two, not two to one, as stated in the story. Still, not bad. If Targett's first shot had had any chance of shooting down a torpedo the chances would have been two to one. You have permission to print my full address. Steven M. Kemp # Addison Street Philadelphia, Pa. # Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Some years ago Jack Vance began a series of novels about the Demon Princes and how one man, Kirth Gersen, set out to kill them one by one. To my knowledge Mr. Vance has only written the following books in the series: The Star The Palace of Love. There were five Demon Princes and the above novels deal with the fates of three of them. Could you possibly tell me if Mr. Vance has abandoned the series or, if he hasn't , where interested readers might obtain copies of the other two (I presume) books ' ? Let me just say that if Mr. Vance has abandoned the series I consider it a great loss, because each novel was meticulously written and extremely interesting. The social and cultural background for the stories is one of the most imaginative and well conceived galactic communities I have ever come across. If you could come through with this information for me I would really appreciate it. Roger Ryan Ontario, Canada I'm sure one or more of our erudite readers can help you -- and if you will send me your address again I'll be happy to print it so that they may communicate with you directly. Please print legibly. The address you gave in your letter is undeSubscribers Please Note: Change of address Lazar. Manager. IF Fulfillment Department. # Secatogue Avenue. Farmingdale, N.Y. #. Allow # to # weeks. We're dose to a cure for leukemia A year ago, we wouldn't have dared say that. Not with that beautiful word "cure" in it. "Temporary remission", yes. New forms of leukemia treatment were helping some children stay alive a little longer. But that seemed to be all that medical science could give them. Another few months. Another birthday or two. Now we're seeing something that's almost too good to believe. A whole crop of kids who are alive and well # years or more after getting a new kind of drug therapy. And after # years, cancer researchers begin to hesitatingly, hopefully, talk of a permanent "cure." Leukemia is cancer of the blood. Before you have a cure, you have to destroy every last cancer cell in the bloodstream. The new treatment is a combination of different antileukemia drugs, so that, hopefully, any cells missed by one drug might be killed by another. It seems to work. We're still holding our breath, but it really seems to work. The #-year survivors that gladden our hearts today are the result of combination treatments begun in #. And work has been going on feverishly ever since. Each year, the children who get leukemia have a far better chance of cure than those of the year before. The American Cancer Society plays a vital part in this exciting work. So, when our volunteer comes to your door this month, be generous. Especially if you have children. Or grandchildren. American Cancer Society! We want to wipe out cancer in your lifetime! The enemy. What do you think-n would happen A group of workers controlling all the nation's transportation decided to strike? A temperamental child could destroy anything displeasing him? A key defense scientist became convinced man was no more than a high-class bacterium cultured by a superior life form? Machines created to think like people developed people emotions? If these questions intrigue, we invite you to sample the solutions devised by some of the world's great writers. You'll find them in The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, one of the fascinating books that can be yours with membership in the Science Fiction Book Club. Choose any # books for #, plus shipping and handling. You can include if you wish, The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, the stories "every real reader of science fiction has to know." Lester del Rey. Broaden your pleasure with the Science Fiction Book Club. The coupon tells how. #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # 'winners." chosen by Sci-Fi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. S# with trial membership Science Fiction Book Club #-S#Aj Please accept my application for membership in k the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the # I books whose numbers I have written in the boxes  below. Bill me just ## (to help cover shipping) for J all #. About every # weeks, send me the club's I bulletin. Things to Come, describing the # coming . Selections and a variety of Alternate choices. If I I wish to receive both Selections, I need do nothing; i they will be shipped to me automatically. When ever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an  Alternate, or no book at all, I will notify you by . the date specified by returning the convenient I form always provided. I need take only # Selections or Alternates during  the coming year, and may resign any time there after. Most books are only #, plus a modest  charge for shipping and handling. Occasionally, I extravalue Selections are slightly higher. return the entire introductory package within #  days. Membership will be canceled. I owe nothing.  Mr. Mrs. Miss #. Future #. The Robot Shock by Alvin Novels by Isaac Toffler. National Asimov. Two of Best Seller. "Eshis greatest cresentlal reading ations, the emofor those... comtionally charged mitted to con"The Caves of trolling their Steel" and "The destinies." Naked Sun." Psychology ToPub. ed. # day. Pub. ed. # #. Stand on Zanzibar by John Brunner. Stunning novel, # Hugo winner, of life In U.S. # years from now. # pages. Pub. ed. # #. The Foun#. Prelude to dation Trilogy Mars by Arthur by Isaac Asimov. C. Clarke. Two The ends of the complete novels, galaxy revert to Sands of Mars barbarism. Pub. and Prelude to ed. # Space, # short stories, by the #. Down In sci-fl "colossus." the Black Gang Pub. ed. # by Philip Jose Farmer. A Hugo #. Beyond the winner's actionBeyond by Poul filled collection Anderson. Six featuring supernovellas by Hugo intelligent alAward winner lens who secretAboyt scientists, ly manipulate pirates, loners. humans. neia s most, nonCI KK ored writer plunges into #  f La " d dark and wonwwintwVn derful dreams of elnlein. He tomorrow's allenatkm. Pub. ed. t j n J, v t e his doom. Pub. #. Sturgeon Is ed. # Alive and Well... #I Nebula Award novelette "Slow Sculpture" plus # other gripping stories by Theodore Sturgeon. Pub. ed. # #. Slaughterhouse-Five by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. The incredible odyssey of Billy Pilgrim lost fn the hideous moments of existence. Pub. ed. # Print name Address State If under #, parent must sign above. Office use only Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are ail full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightlydifferent in Canada. Printed in U.S.A. TWO EXCITING NEW NOVELETTES In the Ocean of Night The Dwarfs of Zwergwelt (conclusion) Arthur C. Clarke speculates on space, earth, technology, the frontiers of science, and the future of man in his new book. Report on Planet Three # Eight science fiction stories by masters of the genre Edited by Gardner Dozois. Delany, Knight, Lafferty, Leiber, Roberts, Silverberg,CordwainerSmith and Zelazny -- on everyday life in alien or future cultures. At bookstores HarpereRow LI I # E. #rd SI... New York # gaia Special Introductory Offer good in the United States the United Kingdom and Canada H. G. Wells, science fiction -- often termed "future fiction" -- has fascinated alert minds. Not only has it entertained. It has predicted much of the far-ranging scientific and social change now upon us. authors of the genre continue to speculate, to predict to tackle the prime problems already shaping tomonow. Ecology -- space exploration -- nuclear promise and threat -- energy -- social evolution and biological revolution -- these and other fields are probed by imaginative stories uniquely exciting and rewarding. So let your fancy run free. Subscribe now! For U.S. and Canada. For United Kingdom. send coupon to: send coupon to: New York, N.Y. # London SW# #RD  # issues of IF for # O # issues of IF for I .# of IF for # of IF for # Enclnsnrl find in payment for my subscriotion as checked above Some Contributors Past and Present Pou! Anderson isaac Asimov Alfred Bester James Blish Robert BIttch Ray Bradbury Arthur C. Clarke L Sprague de Camp Lester del Rey Robert A. Heinlein Willy Ley Donald H. Memo! J. R. Pierce Frederik Pohl Robert S. Richardson Robert Silverberg Theodore Sturgeon A.E. Van Vogt Kurt Vonnegut Jr. May-June # Vol. #, No. # Issue # U.K. Issue I Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Lester del Rey, Feature Editor JudyLynn Benjannin. Managing Editor Jack Gaughan, Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director L. C. Murphy, Subscription Director Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation. Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main Offices: # East # Street. New York, N.Y. #. Single copy: #c. #issue subscription: # in U.S... # elsewhere. Kingdom by Universal-Tandem Publishing Company. Ltd., # Gloucester Road, London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson, Chairman of the Board. Ralph Stokes. Managing Director. Single copy. #p. #-issue subscription in the United Kingdom: #. American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. Second class postage paid at New York. N.Y. and additional mailing offices. The publishers assume no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in U.S.A. Doubleday  Company, Inc. Dept. #-GA-#. Qar CHy, N.Y. # Enclosed is my check or money order. I understand you will pay shipping and handling charges, and that I may return the book(s) within two weeks for a full refund If not completely satisfied that it is the most important Science Fiction volume of the year. State Zip Offer available only in the U.S.A. and Canada. Science nction It's #'s turn. Lift the taboos, the publishing restrictions, the "rules" that SF writers have had to live by. That's what Harlan Ellison did to put together the freest, wildest, most controversial collection of original stories and short novels ever published. # pages of authors like Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., Ray Bradbury, Kate Wilhelm, James Blish and # others giving you their visions of man's future here, and all over the universe. Harlan Ellison, who has already won Hugo and Nebula Awards book the #th World Science Fiction Convention called "the most significant SF book published In #." One question, above all, struck terror into the intruder... What is man? vacuum and began to peer ahead. A blinder was drawn across the image of the nearing star, so that tiny flecks of light near it could register. The telescope employed had a diameter of about sixty inches. It did not differ markedly from those used in the early twentieth century on Earth, for after a certain point technology cannot improve a telescope's ability to resolve faint dots of light. The craft crept along at far below lightspeed. Isotopes met with a low mumble in the throat of its exhaust -- fingers of magnetic fields preceding it plucked the atoms and funneled them in from the surrounding interstellar gas. Only this disturbed the aching reaches among the stars. The craft watched patiently. Any planets orbiting the star ahead were still far away. A series of precise image recordings were necessary if the computers were to pick out a planet moving against the speckled background of stationary stars. At four-tenths of a light-year from the star, the activated computer and its backup agreed that a yellow-brown patch of dim light near the white star was a planet. Higher functions of the computers felt the prickly stirrings of life and were informed of the discovery. A background library of planetary theory was consulted. The blurred disk shimmered as the ship swept through a whisper-thin cloud of dust while the machines bracketed and measured their objective in methodical detail. The planet was large. It might have enough mass to ignite thermonuclear fires in its core, but experience argued that its light was too dim. The computers pondered whether to classify the system as a binary star and eventually decided against it. Still, the waxing point of light ahead held promise. M ark gains came to work early, squinting through the smog layers of Pasadena at a watery fall sunrise. The day was already thickening the air with more of the ruddy-brown stuff -- he slipped a filtering mask over his nose and mouth and found he could all but taste the cloying sweet smell it gave off. He switched on the car radio for the early morning news. Another major strike was brewing, threatening to cut off shipping and the airlines. The President had made a "tough, hard-hitting" speech against rioters -- Federal funding for local law enforcement was going up. A large industrial coalition had linked up with the labor unions to back a bill granting extraordinary protectionist import taxes on Japanese products. PsyIF chologists were worrying about the sudden surge in infanticide -- they thought it was probably related t crowding in the cities. Mark turned off the radio as he swung into the parking lot at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He had been keeping vague track of the political situation and was not surprised to find it getting worse -- it always did. The national administration was jittery, unable to deal with the slump in the economy and the irrational violence that cropped up everywhere. Well, he told himself, politics were not his problem. As usual, his was one of the first cars in the parking lot. He passed through the three sets of guards, grudgingly showed his badge -- the Lab was a prime target for the bombers -- and his steps echoed down deserted neon-lit corridors. But when he reached his office he found the lab director, Clyde Fixmer, already waiting. Mark moved a stack of journals out of a chair for Fixmer, pushed papers into a heap on his desk and raised the blinds on his window to let a pale blade of light lance across one wall. He adjusted the blinds every morning as a ritual beginning of work, and so uttered nothing more than a greeting to Fixmer until it was done. "Something wrong?" he asked then, summoning up an alertness he seldom felt at this hour. He was chief monitor for several space vehicles and any one of them could go wrong overnight. Clyde Fixmer grimaced and closed a folder he had been reading. "The Jupiter Viking," he said tersely. He was a burly red-faced man with a smooth voice and a belly that had recently begun to curl down his business shirts to conceal his belt buckle. "Malfunction?" "No. It's being jammed." He flicked a glance at Mark. Mark raised an eyebrow. He might still be a little sleepy, but he wasn't so slow that he could be taken in by an office gag. "Yeah, I know," Fixmer said, sighing. "Sounds impossible. But it happened." "How?" "At two this morning we got a diagnostic report from the Viking. The graveyard shift couldn't figure it out, so they called me. Seemed like the onboard computer thought the main radio dish was having feedback problems." He shook his head, took off his glasses to cradle them in his lap. "That wasn't it, I decided. The dish is okay. But every time it tries to transmit to us, something echoes the signal back after two minutes." "Echoes?" Mark swerved his chair, staring at titles on his bookshelves while he ran the circuit layout of the Viking's radio gear through his mind. Two minutes is far too long for any feedback problem -- you're right. Unless the whole program has gone bad and the transmissions are being retaped by the Viking itself. It could get confused and think it was getting an incoming signal." Fixmer waved a hand impatiently. "We thought of that. The diagnostics say no -- it just can't be that way. Everything checks out okay." "I give up," Mark said, spreading his hands and dropping them to the desk top. The gesture reminded him of his expansive Italian father -- the thought irritated him. He felt faintly embarrassed by anything dramatic. "What is it, thenT' "I think the Viking is getting an honest incoming signal. It's telling us the truth." Mark snorted. "Come off it. Radio waves take nearly an hour to reach us from Jupiter. How is anyone going to send the Viking's own messages back to it in two minutes?" "By putting a transmitter in orbit around Jupiter -- one just like the Viking." Mark blinked. "The Russians? But they agreed -- " "No Russians. We checked. They say no, they haven't shot anything out that way at all. And our intelligence people are sure they're leveling." "What do they think about the Chinese?" "No chance. They aren't yet playing in our league." "Who, then?" Fixmer shrugged, the slight sagging lines of his face deepened by fatigue. "I was kind of thinking you might help me find out." There was a faint ring of defeat in the way the man said it -- Mark noted the tone because he had never heard it before. Usually Fixmer had an aspect of brittle hardness, a cool superior air. Now his face was not set in its habitual aloof expression -- it seemed open, even vulnerable. Mark guessed why the man had come in himself at two A.M. -- to show his people, without having to tell them in so many words, that he could do the work himself, that he had not lost the touch, that he understood the twists and subtleties of the machines they guided. But Clyde Fixmer had not unraveled the knot and the graveyard shift had departed, so now he could safely ask for help. The puzzle was still unbroken but at least Fixmer knew more than Mark and that still was something -- it gave Fixmer an edge. ' Mark smiled wryly at the game. "Sure," he said. "I'll help." IF jHL spherical shell of space and within the thickness of that shell, temperatures on the surfaces of planets do not range to extremes of heat or cold that would preclude life. The shell, of course, is that theoretical entity called the ecosphere. One-third of a light-year from the fiercely burning sun, the craft surveyed the ecosphere and found it good. There was no sign of a large planet like the yellow-brown gas giant circling farther out. This was a crucial test, for a massive world in the middle of the ecosphere would have rendered unstable other orbits within the life-giving volume. Had the ship found such a planet, it was under standing orders -- orders so old that they functioned as instincts -- to accelerate through the system, gathering all possible data for the astrophysical index, and chart a course for the next in a lengthy record of candidate suns. Instead the ship continued to decelerate. Its telescope emerged more frequently and peered ahead for the longer intervals. Another gas giant was resolved from a bluewhite splotch -- this planet was smaller than the first and farther from the star. Its image resisted precision. The craft noted a blurred circlet of light and speculated that the body might have rings, a not uncommon occurrence among heavy planets. Another massive planet was discovered, then another. They formed a string leading away from the ecosphere. The machines began to lower their estimates of the possibility of life in this system. Still, past experience held out a glimmer of hope. Small dim worlds might lie within the ecosphere. By fluke the ship could be approaching a fertile world from the night side and miss it entirely. The craft waited and watched. At one-sixth of a light-year out the computers were rewarded. A planet did lie within the ecosphere, its image an ambiguous smear of blue and brown and white. The machines felt a spasm of relief and joy, a seething electric surge within. They were sophisticated devices -- webs of impulses programed to want to succeed, yet buffered against severe disappointment if success eluded them. For the moment they were -- if the word quite applies -- content. The ship flew on. M ark gains spent most of the morning arguing with flight control engineers. Neither he totally to abandon the hypothesis that the Jupiter Orbital Viking --  -- had malfunctioned. The engineers thought otherwise. They debated earnestly, pitting sweet cool reason against vague doubts. After several hours of diagnostic analysis and the clicking and burring of calculators, a complete run-through of the Viking's errordetection systems -- and more -- the two men gave in. There was no mechanical flaw. The mysterious echo had faded away a little after three a.m. The Viking was no longer simply circling Jupiter -- a month earlier its engines had been stirred awake and made to nudge it into orbit around Callisto, fifth moon of Jupiter. Now it spun an elaborate orangeslice orbit, lacing over the icy glare of Callisto's poles every eight hours. Mark snapped a cracker in half, swallowed it with some steaming tea, sweet and acrid mingling. He closed his eyes lo the ting and clatter of telemetry. He thought. Suddenly he snapped his fingers. "That's it! If the signal came from a source near Jupiter, the echo must have faded because Callisto came between the two." Fixmer nodded. "Quite reasonable. I thought of the same thing." He looked at his watch. "It's almost noon. Why didn't the echo return around seven this morning when the Viking came out from behind Callisto?" Mark had the uncomfortable feeling that he was playing the role of dull-witted graduate student to Fixmer's learned professor. "Well -- maybe the other source is occluded by Jupiter itself." Fixmer pursed his lips. "Maybe, maybe," he said, without giving a hint of whether the idea had previously occurred to him as well. "Can't we rough out some sort of orbit for the source, given that much information?" Fixmer nodded. But both men were starving. The calculation waited until after a quick lunch. Then, starting with the position of the Viking's main dish when the echo had begun, and adding a few armwaving arguments about the most probable orbital parameters a probe would attempt, they computed when it would move into view from the Viking again. Spherical trigonometry, calculus, angles, estimates -- the answer was around #:# P.M., an hour away. "Can we realign the Viking's main dish in one h,our?" "We'll have to," Fixmer said firmly. He was already picking up the telephone to call Operations Conrol. "Tell them to rotate the camera platform, too," Mark said suddenly. IF "You think there'll be anything to see at that range?" Mark shrugged. "Could be." "The narrow-angle camera?" "Right. With filters ready to sequence automatically." Fixmer spoke rapidly and precisely into the telephone, smiling confidently now that there were orders to be given, men to be told. T he ship was still cruising in deep silence, far from the star's healing warmth, when it began to discern radio waves. More of the higher functions of the craft came to life. The weak signals were weighed and sifted. After the usual sputtering noise of the star had been filtered away a faint trace of emission from the planets was detected. The largest source was the world the computers had found before, the innermost gas giant. This was an optimistic sign, for the planet did orbit near the ecosphere. The ship drew the boundary for the ecosphere under the assumption that interesting planets had transparent atmospheres, but this was only a convenience. Gas giants had thick, deep atmospheres that boiled and streamed. They could warm themselves by gravitational contraction and by heat-trapping -- the greenhouse effect. Life could well evolve in their skies and seas. But such clotted blankets of gas and liquid meant awesome pressures. Life there rarely developed skeletons and thus could not manipulate tools. The ship's log carried many instances of this. And although gas giants might be populated, their inhabitants could not communicate because they had no technology -- and the ship could assuredly not fly into such pressures in search of them. A smaller source of radio waves lay farther inside the ecosphere. It was the third planet, blue and white. The signals were too faint for the ship to discern meaningful patterns, so they might well arise from atmospheric phenomena -- thunderstorms and lightning flashes or perhaps radiation from a magnetosphere. Still, the world had an atmosphere, a hopeful sign. The craft flew sunward. II B y six P.M. the two men gave 'up. The Viking's main dish had been reprogramed to carry out a search pattern around the spot where the unknown radio source should appear. It was functioning. The data were coming in. All operations were proceeding smoothly. And there were absolutely no results. The "target" -- so the engineers called it -- should have reappeared at #:# p.m. according to revised estimates. Given the time lag in radio transmissions from Jupiter, Operations Control began receiving data slightly before #:# p.m. The main dish's search was completed within an hour. The narrow angle camera was not used -- not enough technicians were free from monitoring other planetary satellites -- and in any case, nothing indicated there was anything to see. "Well, there's one good idea gone bad," Fixmer said, getting up from the monitoring console and pacing around in the aisle. "Either the whole thing is a pipe dream -- " "Or we haven't got the orbit right," Mark said. "Yeah, there's always that." "We can have another look tomorrow." "Sure." Fixmer did not sound particularly enthusiastic. Ignoring the background murmur of the Operations Control bay, Fixmer paced some more and finally sat down again. The pair studied their green television screens, where sequencing and programing data were being continually displayed and erased. "Look, I might as well try the camera," Mark said. "What's the use?" "Call it idle speculation." He was feeling tired and depressed and he wasn't looking for an argument. His wife had already called with the information that dinner was going to be hopelessly ruined. And the afternoon's mail had brought notice that the Internal Revenue Service was auditing his tax return for the previous year, #. "Okay, try it." Fixmer threw down his pencil and got up. His white shirt was folded and wrinkled. In defeat he seemed more human to Mark, less an edgy executive carefully measuring his moves before he made them. "See you tomorrow," Fixmer said and turned away, shoulders slumped. Mark shrugged at the console and began typing instructions. B y the time the craft entered the system it had a clear idea of the planetary population. There were nine planets in all, with perhaps a few more very near the star or very far from it -- they did not matter, since obviously they would be inhospitable to life. Of the nine, four hld promise. There was a completely clouded world near the inner boundary of the ecosphere. Next was the smaller radio-emitter -- it showed clear oxygen lines and seemed to have oceans. A smaller world came next, dry and cold but with interesting markings. IF But the craft's attention focused on the fourth possibility, the huge banded giant. Its radio emissions were random in frequency yet seemed keyed to an amplitude pattern that repeated nearly identically at a constant period. The ship made a minor change in course. Gas giant or no, the radio pattern could not be ignored. It moved into the ecliptic plane and swung smoothly toward the great planet. Wf it was altering course," Mark said. Eighteen hours had passed and the optical and spectroscopic analyses from the Viking were in finished form -- telemetry errors corrected -- yellow squiggles on green tape. "It gives off all the lines of a fusion torch burning pretty bright. At least six thousand degrees. The Viking got one clear look at it before Callisto got in the way again." He slid a glossy photo across Fixmer's desk. "Not much to see," Fixmer said. The photo showed a tiny splotch against a black background. "And this was through the onboard telescope? Must be pretty far away." "It is -- or was. Almost all the way across the Callisto orbit. I don't think we'll be able to spot it again on the next pass, however." "Any radio contact?" "Nope. No time. And I couldn't get a good enough fix on it from that photo for a narrow radio beam like the one the main dish puts out." There was a silence. "You know, Mark, this is going to be pretty big news." "It sure will." "I think we ought to sit on it until I get a chance to speak to the director." Fixmer looked at him steadily. "There's not much question about what this thing is." "It's not one of ours, if that's what you mean." "Nor the Russians'. It's not from this planet." "That's what I figured, but I didn't want to say it. Seems pretty wild." Fixmer frowned. "Too wild, maybe. I hate to think what those religious fanatics are going to stir up about it. Or what the military will think. We don't know if that thing is peaceful, you know." Mark looked irritated. He always did when political matters interfered with his work. "Listen," he said, "hadn't we better figure out where it's going before we worry about what to do if it gets here?" T he gas giant had been a disappointment. The nonrandom radio emissions were natural in origin, keyed to the orbital period of its tiny, reddish inner satellite. Methodically the craft analyzed the larger moons and found only ammonia ice fields. Its usual method of search was totally dependent . on monitoring radio signals. It was far easier to seek correlations among the background noise than it would have been to transmit tight, simply coded messages to any likely candidate planets in the system. So the ship had listened patiently, circling the huge planet. Nothing of interest had been received. The craft's programs did not allow for long stays in the vicinity of planets as large as this. A multitude of captured rocks and much dust circled the gas giant, making accidental collisions with the ship quite probable. Safety demanded that it not remain long. The craft accelerated and moved out of the orbital plane. It set course for its next destination. But as it did so a brief burst of radio signal caught its attention. The signal showed high correlations -- though not enough to rule out a natural origin. There were many well-ordered phenomena in nature. Nevertheless, following standing orders, the ship retransmitted the same electromagnetic signal back toward the source. This happened several times, quite quickly, but no sign came from the source that the ship's transmission had been received. Then, abruptly, the signal stopped. The ship pondered. The signal might well have had a natural cause, particularly in view of the intense magnetic fields surrounding the giant gas planet. Yet without further investigation there was no way to decide. The source could be the fifth moon, a cold and barren world. The ship was aware that this moon was tide-locked to the gas giant, keeping the same side eternally facing inward. Its revolution with respect to the ship was therefore rather slow. It seemed unlikely that the source of the radiation would have slipped below the visible edge so quickly. Too, the signal strength was low, though not so weak that the ship could not have detected it before. Perhaps it was another radiation pattern from the belts of trapped electrons around the planet, triggered by the fifth moon rather than the first. The ship thought and decided. The hypothesis of natural origin seemed by far the most likely. It would cost fuel and time to check further and the region near the gas giant was dangerous. Far wiser. IF then, to continue accelerating. It filed the information and moved sunward. ii'T'OU'RE damned right I X object to it," Mark Cains said. "Look, Mark, I sympathize with you completely. We're scientists. We don't like this secrecy business." Fixmer chose his words carefully. "But at the same time I can understand the need for tight security in this matter. If you -- " "For how long?" Mark asked sharply. "Long?" Fixmer hesitated, the rhythm of his prepared speech broken. "I don't really know," he said lamely. "Perhaps for the indefinite future. The President didn't say." His voice took on a hardness. "Does the President think anybody can suppress news about something this big forever? It's been four months now. I don't think all the men who know about the Marauder are going to keep quiet much longer." Fixmer casually leaned back in his chair and studied Mark across the desk. "You aren't hinting that you might -- " "Hell, no. I'm not going to spill it. But the whole idea is stupid." "You wouldn't feel that way if you had been with me at the White House, Mark," Fixmer said solemnly. "I wasn't invited." wanted to keep down the number present for security reasons." The trip had been the high point of Fixmer's career and Mark suspected he burned to tell someone about it. But only Mark and the director of the laboratory were privy to the information and the director had been present at the White House. Mark had listened to the full story without comment until now. "The way the President put it, Mark, was quite convincing. You know the political situation. We haven't licked the Depression yet, really. And those religious fanatics, those Agents of God or whatever -- " "New Sons of God." "Yes. Those lunatics have already got a U.S. Senator to speak for them. They could kick up a lot of dust. Plus the fact that the military people are pretty nervous about this thing." "That's ridiculous. No species from another star is going to come all this way to drop a bomb on us." "You know that. I know that. But some of the generals are worried." "Men with limited imaginations." "Maybe." Fixmer turned in his swivel chair and gazed out at a pale yellow February morning. "There is one factor that doesn't require imagination, though. The elections are on and the President is facing some stiff opposition. He didn't do too well in New Hampshire, you know." Both men stared moodily at the eucalyptus tree that dripped steadily in the light gray fog outside the window. Fixmer tapped his pen on the metal desk and the rhythm echoed hollowly in the still room. "I still think we have an obligation to tell the rest of the human race about this. It's not just another strategic element for the Joint Chiefs to figure, out," Mark said. "I'm sorry you feel that way, Mark." Mark made no reply. Outside, drops pattered soundlessly in a moist, chilled world. "You do acknowledge the need for secrecy in this, don't you? I mean, you will maintain security despite your personal feelings? I would -- "Yes, yes. I'll go along," Mark said testily. "Good, very good. Otherwise I would have to remove you from the group. Nothing personal, of -- " "Yeah, I know. That's the only reason I agree, so that I can stay." Mark got up to leave, smiling grimly to himself. "Well, speaking for myself. I'm happy that you're staying. personnel brought in on this if we can avoid it, and it's going to take a lot of work to find out what happened to that thing." "The Marauder,"' Mark said. "Uh, yes. About that. There was a little concern about attaching such a dramatic name to it. Might excite interest, you know, if anyone should run across it accidentally. The Vice President suggested we give it a number -- J-Fifteen. With fourteen Jovian moons discovered, this is another. "Um." Mark shrugged. "But the main interest, of course, lies in finding out where we can expect it next." "I think I already know," Mark said, pacing up and down the room, now lost in thought, his humorless smile gone. "Oh?" "It headed for Mars. I'm pretty sure of that from the Doppler shift measurement of the fusion flame. Jupiter amd Mars are set for a good configuration now and the Marauder s velocity was adquate to get it to Mars early this month. I can't be sure, of course, without knowing more about the Marauder s capability -- and whether it accelerates throughout the whole voyage -- but I think IF my conclusion is a good bel." "It's near Mars, then?" Fixmer leaned forward, his administrator's manner forgotten. "N # t any more." "I don't get it." "While you were back east I got time on the Mars Or biters. Their camera and telescope rigs are just as good as the Jupiter Viking's and -- remember that blanket budget you gave me last month? I carried out a search for the Marauder s fusion flame. Last night I found it." "What?" Fixmer stood up. "You should have told me." "I am telling you." "You should have said something earlier!" Fixmer hitched up his belt and drew in his stomach, not looking directly at Mark. Mark guessed that Fixmer was uncomfortably aware that he had rushed into the Washington story without giving Mark chance to say anything. Mark stopped his pacing and stood with .arms folded, a faint sour taste in his mouth. the Joint Chiefs of this. If the object is in orbit around Mars now -- " "It isn't," Mark said, unfolding his arms and relaxing. "I thought you identified the spectrograph lines of its flame," "I did. But the Marauder was outward bound, away from Mars. The flight path was pretty clear. I think it must have done a gravitational rebound, just looping in for a quick look and picking up momentum from the encounter, like the Grand Tour probes." Mark leaned against the wall of Fixmer's office; not caring that his blue sweater caught drifting swirls of yellow chalk dust from the nearby blackboard. He was glad for once to have Fixmer on the defensive. Perhaps that way the man could be deflected from his fascination for generals and presidents. Fixmer looked puzzled. "Where is it going next? This could be of crucial importance. I'll have to call Washington right away." He licked his lips. "Yes, right away." He looked at Mark. "Well, what can I tell them? Any idea where it will go?" "Venus," Mark said. T he ship had known even before leaving the banded gas giant that the next world inward was barren. Meanwhile the blueand-white world demanded most of the craft's attention. It satisfied all requirements for life. More, radio noise from it carried a clear non-random component. There were many signals. Translation proceeded slowly. But as the craft neared the dry fourth " planet it reached a verdict: the third world held life that used radio. A debate ensued within the ship. Matters of judgment were being decided by vote among three equally able computers until intelligent life was found -- then the highest elements of the craft would be warmed into life. One of the computers held out for an immediate change of orbit, to skip the dry world and drive on to the radio-emitter. One other felt that the second planet, shrouded in thick, creamy clouds, might well support intelligent life -- indeed, past experience made the hypothesis quite probable. And in any case, was it not a better idea to arrive at the blue world with as much information about this solar system as possible? The third computer wavered for a moment, then cast its vote with the second. It also pointed out that a survey of the inner clouded planet would leave more time for decoding the signals from the third world, so that a better approach could be made. The decision was hurried, since the parched red disk ahead was growing quickly. Here and there on its surface a blotch of color promised a thin, moist refuge for life, but most of the world was dead hills of drifting dust. The ship completed its transit in a few hours, storing the collected data on tiny magnetic grains before turning back to the inner planets. The craft damped the rumble of its bright flame and began the world, but its electromagnetic ears strained to catch whispers from the other. The signals from it were scrambled -- and learning a language without common referents is a task that must take time. The machines set to work eagerly. Ill X The small cluster of men around his console leaned forward. On the television screen in front of them a telemetered photograph was being drawn, line by line. At the top edge of the screen was a tiny point of light, scarcely more than a few dots on the picture tube. "You're sure?" a man from "It's not a star," Mark said, "and it wasn't there on the last pass this particular Orbiter made. I think it's the Marauder, "J-Fifteen," Fixmer said. "Wait a minute -- the spectrographic readings are coming in," Mark said. A line of data was printed out, overlaying the photo. The men read it intently. Most of IF them were unable to make any sense of it, since the information was a coded transcript of spectral intensity versus wavelength and few of the men had enough training even to know what to expect. "Looks complicated," one of them muttered. "That clinches it," Mark said tensely. "It's pretty hot -- must be the fusion flame," There was a moment of silence. Then one of the men asked, "There's no chance of error?" "I don't think so," Mark said. Fixmer said, "He's right." "Then, gentlemen, I think we must start preparing. That thing will come here next. We must be ready for it." The man wore civilian clothes, but held himself stiffly erect and had the air of one whose orders are followed. There were several others like him in the party. They nodded in agreement. "Precisely what do you mean?" Mark asked evenly. "Mr. Cains," the man said blandly, "I take it you people feel this J-Fifteen thing is searching for life. It has reached Venus. It's going to have to come here. But we don't know what it might try to do. It may try to land, bringing unknown diseases with it. The military will have to stop such an attempt." Mark ignored Fixmer's raised finger plainly telling him to remain silent. "How?" "Well, we surely cannot allow it to approach in too close an orbit -- " "And how close is that?" "That is something I'm afraid we will have to determine for ourselves," the man said coldly. "Meanwhile -- " he turned to the rest of the group -- "I think the President should be informed. This area is not secure for further discussions in any case. I suggest we retire upstairs." "I'll stay here," Mark said. "We have to find out if it's going to orbit Venus or just fly by." "Agreed -- ni stand by, too," Fixmer said nervously. He looked at the military man. "If it is just the same to you, sir -- " "Very well," the man said. "This way, gentlemen." The group left. They moved with a heavy, calm assurance. Mark was already absorbed in the incoming data displayed on his screen. This section of the Operations Control bay was now sealed off with plywood walls and the consoles around him were manned by men who knew only enough for them to do their jobs. He found it difficult to separate in his mind the tension of the "J# Project," as it was officially called, from the political turmoil he knew was scourging the world outside. It was late August and the primaries were going badly. One of the major parties had broken into angry factions, some of them violent. The President was being heavily guarded. The New Sons of God had gotten wind of something strange taking place in ing sermons about dire happenings in space. They knew nothing concrete, but Mark had some premonition of what would happen if the Marauder orbited Earth -- then it would be impossible to conceal the truth. An amateur with a telescope would be able to see the ship. And now the Joint Chiefs had come into the picture. Mark donned his microphone attachment. He spoke quickly into it, ordering control of the remaining Venus Orbiters -- three of them -- over to his board. "What are you doing?" Fixmer asked, bending over to look at the screen. "Trying to keep the Marauder in sight," Mark said. "Do you think it is going to orbit?" Mark shook his head. "No way to tell." Around them the technicians and engineers were hunched over their consoles. Every instruction that came from Mark's board had to be interpreted and checked by them to insure that nothing disastrous was done to the Venus Orbiters by accident. The tandem arrangement had been specially rigged for this moment. Mark was sure that by now some of them must be beginning to suspect the truth. In a few moments his calculations were complete. Mark narrowed his attention to Venus Orbiter II, which was just beginning to sense the Marauder s fusion image over the Venusian horizon. He took control of the Orbiter's main radio dish and gave it new coordinates for aiming. Abruptly, the main signal from the Orbiter stopped. The diagnostic signal remained, since it came from the smaller dish. It was a blur of stuttered tenor squeals. "What is going on?" Fixmer wanted to know. "Hold on a minute," Mark said. He waited until the dish platform was locked on the Marauder s coordinates. Fixmer was peering at him, unable to understand what was happening. Mark checked to be sure the line was open. Then, methodically, he began to tap out a series of dots and dashes. IF T he ship was braking smoothly, preparing to enter an elliptical orbit, when the strong radio pulse found it. The pattern was simple and obvious: on, off, on on, off, on on on, off -- the sender was counting out the numbers. A grouping of pulses that might be a rudimentary alphabet followed. The ship immediately returned the signal. There was an instant response -- the same pattern started over again, this time a little faster. That was enough. The ship quickly located the source of the signal -- it was circling the planet not far above the atmosphere. One of the ship's computers had theorized that the cloud deck was too thick and too heavily ionized at the top to allow radio waves to escape -- this hypothesis seemed confirmed by the circling satellite, which clearly resembled a beacon for approaching spacecraft. The ship recalled a similar instance from an earlier contact with an amphibian race whose world, too, had been heavily clouded and whose inability to see the stars had retarded its ventures into space for many centuries. The three deciding computers voted unanimously to alter the craft's orbit and approach the beacon satellite. The question of whether this planet was inhabited could be settled later. The overriding fact was that the ship had been signaled and answered and that an elementary interchange was taking place. The craft computed a new course and executed it even as it continued conversation with the satellite. It began storing electrical power for the day when it would have learned enough about this new race -- then it would transmit a powerful pulse back to a distant relay point, back to whoever so long ago had built it. After that events were up to intelligences greater than its own. For the moment the machines felt a surge of anticipation. The contact just beginning would again call forth their most subtle faculties. Their higher functions would be revived. They would become immersed in elaborate chains of deduction and inference -- the experience would be quite pleasurable. ii you crazy?" Fixmer asked loudly. He reached for the switches on Mark's console. Mark blocked his arm. "Don't try it," he said carefully. "You are taking action in a matter of national security without consulting -- " "I'm saving our necks, is what you mean. The Marauder has already changed course slightly. It's going to stay near Venus for a while at least. And it's answering my code." Fixmer clenched his fists. He did not know whether to try to stop Mark or not, but as he thought it over he realized that the job would not be easy. Mark was big and, benth his calm manner, coldly resolved. Fixmer shifted his weight slightly. Mark stood up and pushed his chair away, blocking the console with his body. Fixmer noticed that the technicians around them were staring, not knowing what to make of the two tense men. He felt slightly ridiculous. He realized that his hands were clenched and deliberately he relaxed them. He took a step back. "Okay. You've done the damage by now, anyway. I'll let the authorities deal with you." "I'm sure you will." "I don't know what you think you're doing." "Keeping the Marauder away from Earth and where the lunatics can't get at it. If we can keep it thinking that Venus is inhabited and that the radio messages are originating from its surface -- inaybe it won't come here. Maybe we can convince it that Earth is just a colony." Fixmer stared at Mark for a moment, then turned abruptly and picked up the nearest telephone. He dialed four digits and said, "Captain? Fixmer. I want two security men down here on the double. That's right, main bay. Security violation. Bad one. I thinkokay." He hung up and looked at Mark. He shook his head. "I don't understand you, Mark. You've always seemed a responsible man, levelheaded. Making decisions about this matter -- " he glanced around at the engineers and raised his voice -- "isn't your responsibility. You -- " "I guess I feel I have higher responsibilities than you recognize," Mark said quietly. "Bull. You -- '.' But Mark did not appear to hear what Fixmer was saying. He looked back at his console, thinking. And after Fixmer had run down Mark said slowly, "You know, there's something I didn't figure when I planned this. Suppose the Ma rauder sends all that phony information back to whoever sent it? They'll come here looking for creatures who can inhabit a desert planet -- seven hundred degrees at the surface -- with only carbon dioxide to breathe." "What of it?" Fixmer said sharply. He was watching the doors, waiting for the security IF officers. His right foot tapped nervously. "We'll seem like pretty fierce creatures, won't we? Dragons. Our visitors would come armed to the teeth -- if they have teeth -- and ready for anything. And judging from that general I saw -- " he gestured contemptuously -- "they had better be lucky." "You are stupid, Cains, just stupid," Fixmer said viciously. "You're living in your own airtight world. Just what did you hope to gain by this little gesture?" "Time." "That's ridicu -- " "Time to think. Somebody has to figure out a way to put sense into this dinosaur agency. The people in charge are simply running on adrenalin. Knee-jerk responses aren't going to work -- not when you're dealing with something totally unknown like the Marauder. This situation calls for intelligent thought, time and luck." A door at the back of , the bay opened and two men with hard faces came in, looking quickly around. They wore sidearms. Mark ignored them. "Yeah, luck. I agree we'll need luck." IV entrance to the Pit. The calm murmur of technicians conversing mingled with the ping and chatter of typewriter inputs. The Pit was dark. Its air was stale. Hooded consoles made pools of light where men sat monitoring, checking, editing the river of information that flowed from this room, converting it into the dancing rhythms of electrons riding electromagnetic wings to the Marauder. He noted a wall clock. He h;id twenty minutes before the meeting. self to relax and not think of what lay ahead. He clasped his hands behind him and walked slowly into the Pit, letting his eyes accustom themselves to the gloom. He paused at his personal console, froze a scrap of the transmission and read: In the service of the Emperor he found life and fought the barbarians and beat them into submission. When the Emperor so commanded he fought strange and evil fairy creatures and these he conquered. Dragons he slew, and giants. all enemies of the land, mortal or animal or creatures from another world. And he was always the victor. He recognized the passage from the Japanese legend of K intaro, even in this westernized form. The Marauder had asked Mr. Ichino several days before for more of the ancient literature of Japan and he had brought in all the texts and translations he could find in his collection. They were being transmitted when time allowed. Mr. Ichino wondered idly if this had been selected especially by a programer, since it contained reference to "creatures from another world." Such an action would be lamentably typical -- most of the men here understood nothing of what the Marauder wished to know. Mr. Ichino tapped his front teeth with a finger, thinking. The square, stylized yellow type squatted against the green of the tube, a strange and alien medium for the delicate thread of a fairy tale. He wondered how it would be read -- was read, by now -- by a thing of copper and germanium circling Venus. All this -- the quiet intensity of the Pit, the compressed minutes he had lived through for months now, the unbalanced feel of what he was doing -- seemed parts of a jumbled puzzle. If he had but a few days to sort it out, to fathom what kind of being could see so quickly to the core of Mr. Ichino's personal experience and extract it. But time was short. He moved on. A technician nodded. An engineer saluted silently. Word would spread that the old man was in the Pit for his daily visit -- the men would be a trifle more alert. Mr. Ichino came to a large graphics tank and studied the intricate work being done inside it by the computer. He recognized the print at once: Nude in the Sunlight, Renoir, painted # or #. Mr. Ichino had selected the painting only two days before. Light filtered to a blue-green cast streaked across the breasts and arms of the naked girl, strangely altering the illuminating red glow of the skin that was Renoir's unmistakable signature. The girl gazed pensively downward, caught by the artist as she grasped some ill-defined cloth. Mr. Ichino looked at her for a long moment, savoring the ambiguity of her expression with a wistful romanticism he knew as an old friend. He had been a bachelor all his life. And what would the Marauder make of it? Mr. Ichino did not venture to guess. It had responded well to Luncheon of the Boating Party and asked for more -- perhaps it mistook the painting for a sort of photograph, despite his explanation of the uses men niade of art. He shook his head as he watched IF the computer carefully break down the picture into tiny squares of color. The Marauder spoke little many of Mr. Ichino's ideas about it were pure deduction. Still, there was something about the pattern of requests the Marauder made. "Anything you would like to see especially, sir?" a technician asked at his elbow. "No, no, everything seems to be going well," Mr. Ichino said softly, startled out of his contemplation. He waved the man away. the men in the Pit transmitted data to the Marauder. At the moment they were working their way through a fresh edition of an encyclopedia, he recalled. Simply radioing the material would have been simple, but the men he supervised were charged with editing each line that found its way into code. The President had accepted the recommendation of the Executive Committee that no detailed scientific or technical information be given the Marauder -- the Pit had been built to ensure it. Most of the consoles were operating with Mr. Ichino's own Code #, a specially designed vocabulary and matrix of symbols that afforded high information density in each transmission to the Marauder. The Executive Committee had searched out Mr. Ichino in the days following the Cains incident, desperately trying to find a cryptologist who had enough experience with high flux signaling. Code # had been relatively simple to lay out, since it drew upon the codes Mr. Ichino had already developed for scrambled transmissions to Hipparchus Base. It was simple and flexible and seemed fairly secure from the Russians and Chinese and whoever else was listening in, but of course it had limited range. It soon became inadequate for the questions Marauder asked -- photographs and a wider vocabulary were the only solution. And this was a problem. Because security was tight, many of the encoders and technicians had not been told about Marauder. They thought they were working on something related to Hipparchus Base on the moon. So it fell to Mr. Ichino himself to speak to the Marauder -- and to another crypbeen brought in to ease the strain. Mr. Ichino had little contact with him, since he managed the other half of their round-the-clock schedule. The Marauder never slept. meeting, Mr. Ichino reminded himself. He stopped amid the comforting buzz of the Pit and made a quick survey of the remaining consoles. Images flickered there -- a three-masted schooner in outline, stiff figures modeling sixteenth century clothes, clouds layered over a boiling ocean. A river of information was being directed at the Marauder to correlate as it liked. He turned and made his way down a line of swivel chairs to the doorway, where he was passed in by a guard. As he emerged into a bright corridor he reached involuntarily for the lump in his jacket pocket and brought it out -- a rubbing stone. He kneaded it with his right hand, feeling the smooth cool textures and focusing on them, calming himself by lifelong habit. He walked. Mr. Ichino felt out of place in these garish corridors. He hated the plastiform walls, the thin partitions, clatter of typewriters, distant whisper of airconditioning. He should be in a university by row, he thought, spending patient hours in a cloister far back in shadowed library stacks. He was aging -- and the higher he rose the more abrasive the men he dealt with, the more subtle their methods of combat. He was not made for this game. But he played -- he always had. For love of the crystalline mathematical puzzles he found in cryptography, for an avenue of escape -- it had, after all, brought him from an immigrant family in small-town Oregon to Berkeley, to Washington and now, finally, to Houston. To meet the Marauder -- and for this the journey had been worthwhile. He passed another guarxi and entered the conference room. No one was there -- he was early. He padded softly over thick carpet to the table and sat down. Mr. Ichino's notes were in order but he inspected them again, without focusing on the individual words. Secretaries came and went, placing yellow scratch pads and pens before each chair. An urn of coffee was wheeled in and set in a corner. A slight hollow pop disturbed Mr. Ichino's meditations -- someone was testing the pickup microphones spaced around the conference table. agenda and he studied it. There was only a list of attendees and no hint of the meeting's purpose. Mr. Ichino frowned as he read the names -- there would be men and women here whom he knew only as figures in the news magazines. And all because of a vessel millions of miles away. It seemed midly ironic, considering the immediate and serious problems of the administration in Washington. IF But Mr. Ichino did not dwell on politics. His father had learned noninvolvement in Japan and had passed the lesson on. Mr. Ichino remembered his reluctance, while an adolescent, to join the poetry and language clubs in high school, because he had felt the sharing of the tenuous emotions these things brought him, the nuances they called up, could not be a public thing. To write about them, perhapsthat was possible. But how describe hikau except in another poem? Anything more -- slabs of words, sentences of explanation without grace or lightness of touch -- would be to crush the butterfly beneath a muddy boot. He had joined the Poetry Club finally out of sheer bravery -- though not French Studies, the other possibility -- and had found in it nothing to fear. Girls had read their stilted lines in high nervous voices and had sat down to approval, followed by mild criticism from the teachersponsor. Boys had spoken theirs hopefully -- there had been only three boys in the club -- and young Ichino had learned what he had hoped to -- learned to speak before a peer group in his halting English, to define and explain and finally to disagree. That had been before mathematics, before the long years of concentration at the university, before Washington and the dozens upon dozens of machine codes he had devised, the monographs on cryptography that had consumed his days and nights. "Mr. Ichino, I'm George Evers," a deep voice said. Mr. Ichino stood up quickly with a sudden release of unexpected nervous energy, murmured words of greeting and shook the man's hand. Evers smiled thinly and regarded him with distant assessment. "I hope we're not taking too much of your time today. You and Mr. to the coffee urn, long legs moving awkwardly -- "are our experts on the day-to-day behavior of the Marauder. We thought we should hear what you have to say before proceeding with the rest of the meeting." "I see," Mr. Ichino said, surprised to find his voice almost a whisper. "The letter I received yesterday gave me no details, so -- " "On purpose," Evers said jovially, hitching thumbs into his belt. "We merely want to get an informal idea of what you think that thing is up to. The committee here -- the Executive Committee, actually, that's the President's title for it -- is faced with a deadline and I'm afraid we're going to have to come to a decision right away, sooner than we thought." "Why?" Mr. Ichino asked, alarmed. "I was under the impression that there was no hurry." Mr. Evers paused, turned to wave to other men entering the long room. Mr. Ichino had the sudden impression of a man impatient to be off, to have the waiting finished, as though Evers knew the decision ahead and wanted to push on to the action that would follow. He noticed that Evers's left hand, casually resting on the back of a chair, had a slight tremor. wait any more," Evers said, turning back. "It gave us the word two days ago." Before Mr. Ichino could reply, Evers nodded and moved away, clasping hands with the men in suits and pastel sports jackets who seated directly across the table, sent Mr. Ichino a questioning glance. M r. ichino shrugged elaborately, glad that he was able to appear so casual. He looked around. Some of the faces he recognized. None were as important as Evers, who bore the ambiguous title of Presidential Advisor. Evers moved to the head of the table, still talking to the men nearest him, and sat down. Others who had been standing took their places and the secretaries left the coffee urn to fend for itself. "Gentlemen," Evers said, calling them to order. "We will have to hurry things along, as you know, in order to meet the President's new deadline. I spoke with him this morning. He is very concerned and looks forward to reviewing the recommendations of this committee." Evers sat with his arms folded on the table before him, letting his eyes rove up and down the two lines of men. "You have all seen -- excuse me, all but seen -- the messages received from the Marauder, requesting a change of venue." He paused for the ripple of polite laughter. "We are here to go into possible scenarios that could be initiated by the Marauder s arrival in near-Earth orbit."  He gestured toward Mr. Ichino. "These two gentlemen are guests of the Committee today and are here solely to bring us up to date on the nonessential information the division has been sending the Marauder. They are not, of course, members of the Exe.cutive Committee itself." He smiled briefly at the two men and focused again on the ranks IF aligned along the table, yellow pads scattered at random before them. A few were already taking notes. Evers sat back, relaxing. "Ever since the Cains incident, the Marauder has orbited Venus. I'm sure we all agree that it was regrettable that the story fed the Marauder -- a civilization beneath the Venusian clouds and all that -- was so obviously full of holes." "It was never fooled," a thin man said at Evers's left. Eyes turned to him. Mr. Ichino' recognized him as a leading games theorist from the Hudson Institute. He wore poorly fitted tweeds and puffed an ornate pipe. "I believe the Marauder has been studying us quite competently from where it is," he said slowly. "Look at what it asks for from the division here -- a welter of cultural information, photographs, things like that. No science or engineering. It can probably deduce that sort of thing, if it needs to, from radio and TV programs." "Quite right," a man farther down said. There were more assents. "Well, that may be," Evers said, "but we are civilians and I think the military has an equally likely theory, This ship may not give a damn about our level of technology for the same reason we wouldn't worry about the spears of South Sea natives when we wanted to use their island as a base." "I'd worry," said a man at the other end. "Those spears are sharp." Evers smiled. "Well, we can cover these matters later. The point is that the Marauder wants to approach the Earth for a better study of our biosphere -- or so it says. It promises to stay at a safe distance. It doesn't buy the lifeon-Venus story and following your earlier suggestion -- " he nodded toward the man in tweeds"the President authorized me to transmit to the Marauder an admission that we did try to decieve it." A low flurry of comment ran around the room, most of it favorable. Mr. Ichino knew others had been negotiating with the Marauder, but these details were new. "After all," Evers went on, "we may as well admit the obvious. I wrote the message myself -- there was no time to consult this Committee -- and explained that at first we didn't know whether the Marauder was friendly. I did not mention that we still don't know." He smiled. "The Marauder replied with a request to orbit Earth. Upon my advice the President proposed that the Marauder first orbit the moon for a while, so our men there can get a good look at it. A sort of mutual inspection." "What for?" the man in tweeds asked. "We could do the job better from Earth." "True," Evers said. He tapped a pencil on the table and Mr. Ichino could see that his Fingers trembled. "But there is an alternative plan the Joint Chiefs have in mind. The plan works best if the Marauder pauses to orbit the moon. They regard it as highly suspicious that the Marauder says it knows nothing of its own origin. The Joint Chiefs feel that it may simply be learning all it can about us without risking itself by giving away potentially useful information. I can't say anything more right now -- " he glanced at Mr. looked quickly away -- "but I'll bring it up later in the meeting. I'll say only that the President thinks the plan has some merit." Mr. Ichino frowned. The Joint Chiefs? He tried to understand the implications of what Evers had said and lost track of the proceedings until: " -- we'll hear First from Mr. Ichino, who has shared the encoding and selection of information for the Marauder. Mr. Ichino?" H IS thoughts were a scramble. He said very carefully. "There is so much the Marauder wants to know. I have only begun to tell it about us. I am not by any means the best qualified -- " Mr. Ichino stopped. He looked down the table at them. He had always had to hold himself in check before people like these, he realized, men with closed faces. He could not speak to them, let the soft things within him come out. "I have found," he said haltingly, his mind filled with fleeting impulses and images, "something I never expected." He looked at their blank eyes and set faces. They were silent. "I began with a simple code, based on arithmetical analogies to words. The machine picked up the system at once. We began a conversation. I learned nothing about it -- that was not my assignment. But what struck me -- " 'Where were the words? "What struck me was the nimbleness it displays. We exchanged elementary mathematics, physics, number theory. It gave me, I think, a proof of Fermat's Last Theorem. Its mind -- if that's the wordleaps from one subject to another and is perfectly at home. When it poke of mathematics it was cool and efficient, never wasting a word. Then it asked for poetry." The man in tweeds was watching IF Mr. Ichino intently, sucking on his pipe, which had gone out. "I do not know how it discovered poetry. Perhaps from commercial radio. I told it what I knew and gave it examples. It seemed to understand. Next it began to ask for art. It was interested in everything from oils to sculpture. I undertook the encoding problems involved, even to the point of fixing for it the right portion of the electromagnetic spectrum for viewing the . pictures we sent." He spread his hands and spoke more rapidly. "It is like sitting in a room and speaking to someone you cannot see. One inevitably assigns a personality to the other. Each time the Marauder -- ii wants to know everything -- changed the subject matter under discussion there was this feeling of differentness, as if -- " Mr. Ichino saw the hurried on, stumbling over his words. "It was as if Lwere speaking each time to a different personality. In turn a mathematician, a poet -- he even wrote sonnets, good ones -- a scientist, an artist -- he is so large, I -- " Mr, Ichino paused. He felt the air tightening around him, the men at the table drawing back. He was saying things beyond his competence. When had the machine become "he" in his mind? He was only a cryptographer, not qualified... Across the table from Mr. space between them, distracted. He said slowly, "I see, I see, yes. That is what it is like. I had never thought of it that way before, flat on the table, as though to push himself up. He looked with sudden energy up and down the table. "He's right, the Marauder is like that. It's many personalities, operating almost independently." M r. ichino gazed at this man who shared his labor and for the first time saw that by contact with the Marauder. The thought lifted his spirits. "Independently," Mr. Ichino said. "That is it. I sense many aspects to his personality, each a separate facet. And behind them there is something -- greater. Something that I cannot visualize." "We're seeing parts of the Marauder, that's all." Both men stared at each other, unable to put into words the enormity they sensed. Evers spoke. "I really think you gentlemen have strayed from the subject at hand. I asked you to describe the range of input the Marauder requested, not your own metaphysical reactions to it' A few nervous chuckles sounded. Around the long table Mr. Ichino saw minds sheltered by narrowed eyes, judging, weighing, refusing to feel. "But this is important -- " Evers raised a hand to cut him off. Mr. Ichino saw in the gesture the final proof of why Evers was a Presidential adviser and he, Ichino, was not. to leave to the Executive Committee the determination of what is or is not important." looked across the table. Mr. Ichino took a deep, calming breath and struggled out of his confusion. "Yoii-have already decided, haven't you?" he asked Evers...He looked at the man's face and thought he saw something shift deep behind the eyes. "This meeting is a sham," he said with certainty. "I don't know what you think you're -- " "That may be true, Mr. Evers -- you do not know. Perhaps you have not admitted it to yourself yet. But you plan something monstrous, Mr. Evers, or you would listen to us." "Look here " "You do not want to know what we know." There was an uncomfortable rustle in the room. Mr. Ichino held Evers with his eyes, refusing to let the man go. The silence lengthened. Evers blinked, looked away, too casually brought a hand up to touch his chin and hide his mouth. "I think you two had better go," Evers said in an oddly calm voice. There was no other sound. Mr. Ichino, hands clasped tightly to the notes before him, felt a sudden strange intimacy with Evers. In the lines around the man's mouth he read an expression he had seen before -- the trademark of the quick-witted executive -- intelligent -- who knew with a sure instinct that he carried the necessary toughness to decide when others could not. Evers loved the balancing of one case against another, the talk of options and probabilities and plans. He lived for the making of hard choices. Mr. Ichino stood up. For such men it was impossible to do nothing, even when to do nothing was best. Power demanded action. Action meant drama and drama -- was glory. Now it is out of my hands, he thought. IF room, but Mr. Ichino did not wait to speak to him. For the moment he wanted only to leave the building. Forebodings seethed in him. He doubted that he would be allowed back in the Pit to talk to the Marauder again -- he was now a risk. The thought troubled him but he put it aside. He signed out at the nearest exit and rushed into the thick damp air of Houston. It was almost noon. He still carried the yellow pad and his notes, pages crumpled in his fist. Going down the steps of the building he felt a welling tide of something he could instantly name and, dropping the pages, dropping all, he ran. He ran. V strained by the buckles and pads, and spin soft coils of illusion. The random splotchings of craters wheeled below, each slipping under the arched horizon just before he had memorized it. # friend lost without a farewell handshake -- shaking hands, remember your manners, Kenneth -- take off your glove first (cold snatching at your fingers)... His mind wandered. Which wasn't right, he told himself. Kenneth M. Walters, called Ken or sometimes Kent, oddly enough -- should stay alert. He was not here for the view. Nor did segmented tanks of liquid oxygen ride to the side of him, above, below, directly behind, for his own coy amusement. They waited for the signal, a soft pressure on a button, to bum him straight into history. Or into the abyss beyond Earth's web, he thought. Hipparchus Control-awesome name for six sheetmetal huts buried in twenty feet of dusthad been a touch vague about the margin of error they had allowed for getting him back. Maybe there wasn't any. Off to his right the northmost rim of Mare Orient ale slid into view, slate-gray sheets of lava cooled in their convulsions. The crater's center lay a good fifteen degrees south of his near-equatorial orbit, but even at this low altitude he could see the marching mountain ranges that curved away from him, inward. He wondered how big the rock had been that caused that eerie effect: crests of ancient waves frozen into mountains. An enormous bull's-eye in the moon's ribs. Assassin's knife. E)eath from an asteroid. "Hipparchus here," a voice rattled and squeaked in his ear. "Everything okay?" Kenneth Walters waited a moment and then said, "Shut up." "No, it's okay. We've computed it. This transmission is in the moon's radio shadow, as far as the Marauder is concerned. It can't pick up any of this." "I thought we weren't taking chances." "Well, this isn't exactly a chance." The voice sounded a bit peevish. "We just wanted to see how things are going up there. We don't get any telemetry. You could be dead for all we know." He could not think of anything to say to that, so he let it go. The radioman -- who was it, that short guy, Lewis? -- seemed to think he was just making a neighborly call. The phones crackled and sputtered in his ears for a moment while he waited out the other man. Finally the voice came a little more strongly. "Well, we have a good fix on the time, anyvay. About five hours away. Squirting the scoop to your LogEx now." There was a hum from the . electronics beside him as the computer absorbed the orbital data. He was sure now it was Lewis down there -- the man was addicted to jargon. "Have you rechecked your missiles?" Lewis asked. "Yes -- Uh -- roger." "We just had a squirt from Houston to remind you about priorities. Any piece of it is better than nothing, so hold off on the nuke if you can." "Roger." "Feeling okay? You've been up there more than a day now. It must be getting cramped." "Ever been to Mars?" "Huh? Oh, I see what you mean. But you had the works then, drugs, full hypno. Say, I never did ask you about that. I mean, how it felt to be under that long." "No, you never did." There was another silenced "Well, it must feel different, this one being a combat mission. Not the same." "Sweating like a pig." "Yeah, really?" The voice brightened. "We'll get you back okay. Don't worry, fella." "Say hello to the guys down there," Kenneth mumbled. He had felt he ought to say something friendly. Lewis wasn't a bad guy, just too chummy. "We're all rooting for you. Zap that thing and Houston will sure be happy. If -- " "I'd better go over that flight plan." "Oh, okay. Signing off." Roger." wading ashore. Somebody IF always wondering where the medic is. Your job, should you decide to accept it... Crawl along a clay ditch, hornets passing overhead with a hollow buzz. Hug the ground, align with the groin of the world. Image of brown-skinned woman wrapped around white man, he in spattered uniform. Somewhere a musical phrase of hunger. He found one of the clear plastic tubes, squeezed it and ate. Carrot vegetables and roots, no evil meat. Those who would meet God in the heavens shall be pure of intestine, live not from the flesh of dead animals. Rear your children on beans and berries -- they, too, may ride to the stars. When they come home from a date, smell their breaths for the aberrant trace of a hot dog. Unclean, unclean. And anyway, nobody had yet learned how to grow a chicken or a cow on the moon, so soybeans, it was. For that matter, they couldn't do much else on the moon, either. It was all well and good to balance tomatoes with barley, coaxing forth from the lunar gravel enough protein and oxygen to support a small base -- and yet another to regulate amino acids and plant sap, keep mildew from forming in the access pipes, conserve the thin mealy loam. The optimistic biologists frowned at their soybeans -- with the daily cycle of sun and tides removed the beans grew gnarled roots and gray leaves, became miserly with their proteins. It was no simple trick to be an adversary of entropy in a land with black skies and winds that slept. But still, they carried on. Optimism. That was what he lacked. Kenneth Walters shrugged with no one to see. The loss did not seem to matter. He looked back, however, trying to remember when it had happened... of the shoe box that brought him home from Mars he spat and snarled, so that Parsons and the rest of the disappointed pallbearers kept him away from the #D cameras for two weeks. Maybe it was a good idea. By that time the edge had left his tongue, the bile had been watered and some humor remained. Parsons et al had sent him off a boy, able to lower his breathing rate and slow his metabolism at will by self-hypnosis. Operation Sure Thing gave them back a Kenneth Walters hardened and toughened, and they weren't sure what he would do with the fame that fell on him, a second Lindbergh. The other man had crossed the Atlantic at twenty-five -- Kenneth was twenty-three. Parsons hoped he would prove docile. There was really no choice -- so they slicked down his hair and sent him out to charm the Republic. Kenneth made a few speeches, one before Congress. He went on #D and flashed his teeth. He made jokes about having been so crowded on the flight home that he had had to comb his hair with his toes. When asked about the onboard computer's role in the mission he said something blandly nice about Roger (though he did get in a limerick about Roger the lodger, the dirty old codger... bound his audiences with descriptions of the ruddy Martian lowlands. He slept with women. Before Sure Thing he had somehow always met girls. After it, he met women. Or more to the point, they met him. They drifted his way at parties, seemingly inspecting the Cezanne prints, and abruptly came upon him, round doe eyes widening in polite surprise at his identity (yes, he was the one) and hand unconsciously going to the throat to caress a necklace or scarf, intimate sensual gesture to be read if he cared. Often he cared. Often they were electric women, aware in some secret bastion that this man had been where they could not go, for reasons they did not fathom but which suggested something basic and feral, some mysterious male rite performed beyond the hornrimmed clinical gaze of psychologists and pundits and, most important, away from women. They were of many types. How masculine, one of them said, patting yellow hair into place, to think of women as types. Embarrassed -- for this was New York, where differences were unfashionable that year -- he laughed and threw some chablis at the back of his throat and left her soon afterward, reasoning that, after all, he did not like her type.) But they had gained a sameness for him, though he sampled the Junoesque, the wiry, the darkly sensual, the Rubens maiden and some mongrels. How not to call them types just to tell them apart? The urge to classify washed always over him, to analyze and inspect -- as he said to a catty aging #D actress in a worldwide interview, "They were weighed and found wanton" -- and at last he came to look upon himself as from a distance, pacing his responses, never moving wholly with the moment. There he quit. And went back to his job, which was, after all, enough. He needed IF women, but he did not need the kind who were drawn to him. B y that time #D had made a minor personality of him. He began to accept exposure as it suited him, which happened to result in the optimum intervals for his remaining what a PR man had called "alive" without "saturating his image." He appeared on a mildly intellectual talk show and revealed a more than passing knowledge of the works of Louis Armstrong. He was interviewed during a long walk in the Sierras, wearing a sweatsuit and talking about what meditation course. It wasn't great material, but the networks were scrambling for something halfway intelligent. With #D execs, anything that tickled their noses they thought was champagne. And the housewives and garage mechanics didn't get bored with Kenneth Walters either, because he laughed and told jokes and dropped sly little bits of inside scoop into the conversation about the infighting He was inordinately lucky. Something would boil up from his subconscious and he would put it into a sentence or two, and suddenly Parsons would be in trouble about his complicity in cutting the manned component at Hipparchus or stopping the infrared telescope abuilding in orbit or keeping women out of the program. And in the sweet rushing fullness of time Parsons was no longer mentator said Kenneth had a positive talent for telling the right truth at the right time -- right for Kenneth -- and it was doubly surprising when the faculty for truth-telling left him, utterly, after Parsons resigned. A few of the men told him the moves had saved his career -- that before he had gone on #D he had been marked as a leading target for the next Night of the Long Knives. Houston -- they murmured casually, looking into their branchwater-and-bourbon -- hadn't been too happy about some of his transmissions from Mars orbit, bellyaching (their word) about coming home. Kenneth listened carefully to their admirations of his maneuvering skill, but he knew it was misplace. He had done in Parsons out of sheer personal dislike -- no principle at all had been involved -- and his subconscious knew it. As soon as the irritant had been removed, the sly Medici within him slipped into slumber and Kenneth returned to being a working astronaut. The program sensed his potential power -- once stung, twice paranoid -- and more or less gave him the duty he wanted. When a spot opened in the thrice-yearly rotation at Hipparchus he applied for it and got it. He was short and kept up his breath control -- he was precisely the man to use for long Rover missions in the highlands, working in a two-man team. At last, on the moon, younger men were making their way in the program. The early test-pilot astronauts, thoroughly married and nearing their middle years, reeking of oatmeal virtues, couldn't make it at Hipparchus. They were fine for flights and quick exploratory landings, but they couldn't keep up the pace during the long marches and climbs. So, into an age leached of glory came the return of gallant young men, bleached hair cropped close to the skull, who kept the space program hobbling along with an occasional newsworthy exploit. Toward the end of his rest after Sure Thing, the Mars flight, Kenneth had been interviewed on a late-night talk program. The gentleman philosopher who "hosted" the program -- meaning it was his show -- had mentioned that Kenneth had performed "one of the great acts of our civilization." Kenneth had told him no, that the great deeds always came in quiet, lonely rooms, where men and women worked for that most elusive of all things, a truly original idea. Maybe, Kenneth thought to himself, watching Earth set behind a crumpled, gray-brown horizon, maybe ! was even right. The host had murmured a precisely timed assent and shifted the subjecttelevision does not fix on private experiences but public ones. Still, now Kenneth had come to it, too -- waiting, alone, to drive home the blade. Or, failing that, a bludgeon. In solitude, very nearly as a private act. Private. But public. T he first indication had come in the form of increased radio traffic with Houston. Kenneth was mercifully spared radio duty because of rank, so he first heard of the Marauder when the Hipparchus Base commander called him in for a preliminary briefing. Three other men were there, alternate candidates for the mission, but Houston had made it clear that one Kenneth M. Walters was much preferred. Why? None of them could say, except that he did have more deep-space experience than the others. Too, he had reacted well during some foul-ups of Sure Thing and -- perhaps more IF significant -- administrative changes memories of his independence. The four men at Hipparchus were told about the Marauder and Scenario Eight a week before Eight was to be executed. They heard, too, of the poor bastard who had decoyed the Marauder into a Venus orbit and had been fired as a result (a light sentence, Houston felt, but after all, he was a civilian). One week was just barely enough time to arrange the modules for carrying extra fuel, checking out the systems and working out some alternate scheduling in case of mishap. It took everyone at the Base to assemble the launch vehicle and pilot's cabin in time. The nuclear-tipped rockets were already on their way from Earth orbit, carried aboard the supply shuttle. Arranging the myriad valves and connections, checking out servo systems and interface parameters -- each man carried a gallery of facts and numbers and details inside his head, worked doggedly to the limit of the pills and. shots he was given and, in the span of five days, individually and collectively converted a blueprint into hardware. novel from the cabin's erasable slate. With some forethought Kenneth had brought along a pack of four memorex crystals, each book length. In the first day of waiting he had devoured two of them. He privately gave even odds that Scenario Eight would not come off at all and reading relaxed him. It also provided a distraction. Even a view of the moon from twenty-seven miles up can pall after a while. A phrase caught his eye:... at an attitude toward Attaturk... Later, as he was musing down at the flinty plain of Mare Smythii, it came back to him. He treated the words as he might an algebraic expression, factoring out all the fl's, then the 's. Rearranged, the words could yield ambiguity, incoherence, passable poetry. He wondered if he had given in to a neurotic compulsion. Memory of case histories from library shelves came to him -- women who never passed a lamppost without touching it, men who balanced always on the ball of the left foot while urinating, outfielders who had to take a skip before throwing the ball to home plate. He shrugged and divided the phrase into thirds, quarters, eighths, thought of an anagram, fiddled with the punctuation. The moon turned. X ing okay' Lewis again, seven orbits later. "What does Houston say?" Kenneth asked. "'Marauder is holding to course, decelerating at a fixed rate. Looks like its final orbit will be about a thousand miles out." "What's it saying to Houston?" "How would I know? They use some special code, sounds like to me. I listened in some and I couldn't spot any of the usual patterns, no Morse or anything like that." "Morse isn't handy for computers. Too redundant or not redundant enough something." "Well, they're keeping it busy. The Scenario calls for beaming a lot of hot stuff out to the Marauder just as it comes in and starts maneuvering. I guess they're answering the questions those computers wanted to know all along, only Houston wouldn't tell." "I wonder what it thought, sitting over near Venus." Kenneth paused. "They couldn't be dumb, those machines. They must have Figured out right away that Venus couldn't support any life." "I wouldn't be so sure about that. It stayed put for five months." "Maybe it was just being diplomatic." Lewis chuckled, making a cackling hollow sound in Kenneth's helmet speakers. "That thing's a computer, Ken. And not even one designed by humans. It's just a searcher, that's all." "If that's what it is -- why is it hanging around? After it sent out that big directional radio signal toward Ursa Major it should have moved on to the next star." "Well, that's why you're getting set to cripple it, Ken. To be sure it doesn't get any closer to Earth." "And to give us a chance to pick its brains." "Yeah, right. But remember, zap it if it looks like it's getting away. That's what Houston says." "Sure." He waited, mistrusting a sudden impulse to exchange small talk with Lewis. Kenneth Walters, the media man, wanting to sound off. "What does Houston know?" "Huh?" Thin thread of surprise in the voice. "Houston thinks the Marauder is a recon operation. That doesn't have to be so. That guy Cains handed it a line about us living on Venus at the first, to keep it at arm's length. The Marauder probably transmitted some of that crap back to its home." "So?" "Now it's got to amend that report. It probably doesn't trust IF Houston much any more -- it wants a look for itself." "Let it look from Venus.'"If somebody had told it we thought it was carrying alien diseases -- or wanted to steal our wives and children -- maybe the thing would stay away. Anybody try that?" "Houston doesn't want to tip our hand and let that thing know we're afraid of it, Ken," Lewis said, sounding a little exasperated. "We want a shot at a sitting duck." "A finger in the eye." "What's that?" "You ever think how old that thing must be? Our lives are so short that to the Marauder we must dynasties snuffed out in an instant. It looks at us with its microscope and makes lab notes while we try to poke a finger in its eye." "Hey, no wonder you were a hit on the late show. If this ever gets out to the public, you can use your lines in one of those magazine articles." "I never wrote any." "Not even about Mars?" "No, I'm a media man. Auralvisual. Let your slides do the work." "You're coming out of the radio shadow, Ken. I've already squirted your LogEx the corrections." "Okay, see you on the next pass." He was moving into the sun's white glare again. The cabin popped and pinged and snicked as it warmed. A plaster of Paris crater below lay bisected by the terminator, its central cone perfectly symmetric. Its rim was round and seemed smooth. Four distinct terraces marched down to the floor. Snick, went his cabin. Waiting at the edge of infinity, he thought. On the smooth shore of the ocean of night, marking the minutes until the winged stranger arrived. An actor, not knowing his lines, ready to go onstage for his big Scenario. Maybe he should have been an actor, after all. He had tried it once, in college, before engineering and flight training had swallowed up his hours. He had wanted to be an actor, but his father had talked him into becoming a Kenneth Walters. He warmed a tube of tea and sipped it, as well as anyone can sip from a squeeze bottle. The sun streamed in. Tea was a warm hand in the dark. Reeling with Darjeeling, he thought, and maybe, after all, I did fool old Dad in the end. Sure Thing had been a straight bit of acting, with Providence kindly providing a busy coda of danger after the landing. And here he was for his next engagement, carefully primed, all the props in place. Opening night coming up, all the Top Secret Clearance audience clustered about TV sets. Best of all -- no critics. This actor, a wellgrounded student of the Method School, is noted for his wholehearted interest in and devotion to his performance. His previous work, while controversial, has won him some notoriety. He prefers roles that seem to point a moral at the end, so the audience, will believe they understood it all along... He smiled to himself. A man with his finger on the trigger can afford a few cosmic thoughts. Politics becomes geometry, philosophy is calculus. The universe winds about itself, snakelike, events plotted along coiled coordinates with a fine tight geometry, the scrap paper of a mad mathematician. He raised an eyebrow at the idea. I wonder what they put in this tea... VI They had called him several times, but he had been slow to answer. "Tm busy." "Got your systems repped and verified?" Lewis spoke quickly, slurring one word into another and making it hard to piece together the sentence. "We received that squirt from your onboard diagnostics on your last pass. Breakdown shows no serious trouble. A little overpressure on the backup tanks, but Houston says it is within tolerable operating limits. It looks like you're cleared." Kenneth turned off the inboard reading lights before replying. The cockpit became bathed in the deep red of the running lights. For a moment he saw only blackness, then his eyes adjusted. He had seen this warm red glow thousands of times before, but now the sight seemed fresh and strange, portending events just beyond the point of articulation. Dante, he thought, has been here before me. Well, he would give them what they wanted. He thumbed over to transmit. "I verify, Hipparchus. Staging reading four-oh-three-eight. Servitor inventory just completed and LogEx reports all subsystems and backups are functional." "I have a relay for you." "What?" A buzz, a hiss of solar static, then a smooth, well modulated voice: "Ken, this is George Evers. I'm chairman of ExComm down here -- we came up with Scenario Eight. I asked Hipparchus to patch me through to clear up any lastminute questions." "I haven't got any. Just be sure Marauder doesn't put on any sudIF den burst of speed. Understand?" "Quite right," Evers said gravely, his voice dropping an octave. "However, we are sure the Marauder will never see you. You will have the sun at yoUr back all the way in on your run. There isn't any radar in the world that can pick you up against that background." "In the world -- wn." "Oh, I see. Well -- " Evers gave a small, self-deprecating chuckle -- " it's just a phrase. But our people here feel strongly that there are certain rules of thumb about detection equipment that hold true in every situation, even this one. I wouldn't worry about it." Pause. "But the reason I'm taking up your time, Ken -- and I see we have only a few minutes left -- is to impress upon you your obligations on this mission. We down here cannot predict what the Marauder will do. The final decisions are up to you, although we will be in contact as soon as we are sure that the Marauder has detected you -- if it ever does, that is. To be sure, that might be long after the time for any effective action on your part is past. We will do all we can from this end, of course. For the last few hours we have been transmitting a wealth of cultural information on mathematics, science, art and so on. ExGomm hopes this will serve as a diversion to the computers in the Marauder, though we have no way of knowing for certain. Meanwhile our satellites circling the moon will monitor radio transmissions to keep us in touch. Silence is essential. Do not broadcast on any band until the Marauder shows unmistakable signs of having seen you." "I know all that." "We just want you to have these things clear in your mind. There was no time for a proper briefing. You have two small missiles with chemical warheads. If they are not sufficient to cripple the Marauder s propulsion, then the nuclear -- " Kenneth Walters cut in: "I've got to check out something." Evers' words ran on for a few seconds, until the time lag due to the finite speed of light caught up. It was obvious to Ken that he had interrupted a prepared speech. The beauty of his situation was that no one could tell from telemetry whether he had something to do or not. He said, "Okay now." Evers came back. "One last thing, Ken. This Marauder could be inconceivably dangerous to humanity. If anything seems to be going wrong, kill it. No, that's too strong. The thing is just a machine, Ken. Intelligent, yes, but it is not alive. Well, good luck. We're counting on you down here." The sputter of static returned. T ime trickled into the past, and he frowned, trying to make the memories fit. His father had slipped away during Ken's college years, become a fading echo. The man had given his son a drab litany of success to live by -- shoulders-to-the-wheel and all that -- with a high nervous certainty that he, Kenneth, would fly where the father had merely walked. But he had coughed out his last spark before Sure Thing was born and had never known that his son had made it big, vindicated his withered life. Poor father, he would have been awed by Parsons, by the multioffices and the legion of heelclickers enslaved to them. Ah, and the fame that had followed Sure Thing -- father would have rolled and basked in that, too, loving the delicious small warmths of celebrity. The old man's solid, easy assurance had guided Kenneth, but when he looked back he found it hollow. So the faith of his father was empty. Now he spun in night, suspended above choices made and abandoned, searching. Rather than fake a head cold and let one of the three eager backup pilots take Scenari Eight, he had thrust himself into the crucible of events again, seeking definition. His beard itched. He resisted the urge to scratch it, knowing that would only make the itch worse, and allowed himself a mad grin, rolled his eyes, let forth a hollow groan, stretched his legs and arms. He dabbed at his teeth with a soft wet tongue, tasting orange juice. He had been drinking it when Evers called. Some sliding waver in the way the man spoke, some thread of uncertainty had come into the cabin with that voice. Evers Kenneth did not complete the steps, fearing where they led. He studied the distant vortex of white storm clouds over India and tried not to think. His fingers trembled. Time. Time to see it all. He needed more. But time was gone, the green clock said; he went forward to meet the moment, to put himself on the anvil again. He whispered it to himself through tight and bloodless lips. He was being pressed to geometric flatness by the magic hand of the multistage rocket and, though he breathed shallow short gasps and concentrated on timing them precisely, the pain would not stop shooting through the soft organs of his belly. He closed his eyes to find a red haze and imagIF ined himself a sunbather pinned to the hard sand, vaguely conscious of the distant rumble of the surf. The Pacific. He had been stationed in California during aquanaut training, growing tan between hot dunes and clear water startling in its coldness. He remembered long and agonizing runs on the beach between La Jolla and Del Mar, recalled himself churning doggedly past forests of firm young thighs, sun shimmering through a thin haze of sweat that ran into his eyes. Cantilevered breasts -- or more stylishly, bare ones, brown nipples pouting -- had swung to follow his progress, deliciously red lips had spread to wide grins at his grunts and wheezes. Surf had foamed white to the side, ragged margin to bluegreen ocean. As his arms and legs had grown leaden he had diverted himself with glimpses of the figures and faces passing by, moving stride by stride into his past. Small families, leathery men, serenely nude couples, dogs -- all had acted out small plays in his head, populated his preconceived universe, frozen while snarled in tiny dramas of fear and aching lust, boredom and laughter, all parties taking all parts. The pressing fist was lifted. He blinked, located a toggle switch. saw a light turn green. Separation. The fist returned. Combat mission. Enemy. Target. He had not used those words for years -- they were childhood terms. Galoshes. Skate key. As the days stand up on end. My friend... His uncle had fought in some grimy jungle conflict, somewhere, had told stories about it, resolving all complicated political theory with the unanswerable gut reality of a souvenir pistol and bayonet, proudly displayed. Ken had thought it a minor eccentricity, like owning a complete fifty-year run of The National Geographic, The fist lifted. The fist returned. A rivulet of spittle ran down his to move a hand. His eyes ached. Each of his kidneys was a sullen lump just beneath the skin of his back. Iron and oil. Brought to a boil. Abruptly he floated. The dull rumble died. He sucked in air, feeling life return to his numbed arms and legs. Automatically he scanned the regiments of lights before him. He was flying blind, no radar to guide him. After a few minutes of checking he activated the firecontrol center and received acknowledgments from the computers that rode in the missiles. Then he rotated his couch to get a full view put the. large observation port. Nothing. The port was black, vacant. He logged the time and checked the running printout on his slate. The burn was right, his heading was dead on. The Marauder was coming in for an orbit around the moon, as Houston had asked it to, and he would come up from behind, closing fast. He glanced through the port again. Nothing. Now that he was on a definite mission, moving, the complete radio silence was eerie. Through the side port he could see the back of the moon fall away, an endless dirty gray plain of jumbled craters. He searched the main port carefully, watching for relative motion against the scattered jewels of the fixed stars. He was studying the star field so intently that he nearly missed the bright point of light that drifted slowly into view. H e swung the viewing telescope down from its mount. Magnified, the diamond point resolved into a small pearl. The Marauder was a sphere, silvery, with no apparent markings. He could see no means of propulsion. Perhaps they were on the other side of the object or not operating at the moment. It didn't matter -- his missiles had both heat-seeking and radar guidance and could find the Marauder s fusion flame if it were on. He squinted, trying to estimate the range. But he had no idea of how large the ship was, other than Houston's early estimate that it had to be less than three hundred yards in radius, based on data from the Venusian satellites. He peered at it. The Marauder had come from some vast distance, sifting through scattered suns, searching for a matching glimmer of intelligence. For its journey to end so suddenly, here -- if the missile hit wrong, burned away its fine-spun matrix of inorganic intelligence -- would be awesome waste... Kenneth broke off the thought. He fumbled with the buttons on the fire-control breadboard, rushing himself into something he did not want to think about too clearly. He aligned, corrected and with an executioner's grace snapped the button home. From the left port came a bright orange flare and a blunt thump as death took wing. A spike of light spurted ahead. It IF was a burning gaseous star, a sharp matchpoint of flame, then a shrinking dot that homed with bitter resolve. Kenneth fidgeted. A shrill beep rattled in the cabin as automatic tracking followed the missile. Red numerals showing course adjustments flickered and died on the board before him. The idiot beep quickened. The point of light swept smoothly toward the blurred outline before it. Kenneth sucked in his breath, held it. The sky splintered. An eye-searing ball of flame billowed out. It thinned, paled. He pressed back into his couch, not moving, nostrils flared. The beep was gone and only a faint burr of radio static reached him. He hung suspended, waiting. He stared ahead. Beyond the slowly dulling circle of flame a dab of light moved to the left. Its image wavered and then resolved into an intact, perfect sphere. Kenneth realized that the chemical warhead had detonated prematurely. A wave of unexpected hope filled him. He blinked, trying to comprehend his own feelings. The silvery ball drifted slowly leftward and he automatically corrected his course, feeling a tug of acceleration at his back. His mind tumbled, seeking something to hold. Evers said to use the nuke, use the nuke use the nuke if the other missiles failed. Evers said... Evers said... He corrected again, pursuing, feeling the tightening clutch of the straps. The pearl grew slightly, wobbled as he fired starboard jets and brought her on target again. He enjoyed the calming rhythm of work, of knowing what he was about. But the moment could not be put off. He punched in the final sequence of instructions and armed the one missile he had not expected to use. It rode directly above his head, waiting in the secure nest of its pod. was thumb-fingered and moved slowly. The firing button for the nuclear-tipped missile sat alone in a small, bracketed section of the board. Kenneth could not take his eyes from it. He knew the radiation and shock waves from a nuclear warhead would probably kill the pearl. He knew it and he could not move. A voice asked, "Do you know me so well?" Kenneth froze. The voice came from his helmet speakers, free of static. "Who -- " he began and stopped. "Do you ride such comfortable winds that you can live counter to your best nature?" "You're speaking? You" "I speak for my. life." "How do you know what I am doing?" Kenneth asked numbly. "I have seen the dark side of your race. There are fewer walls than you may think. I have met this before -- in different light." The sphere ahead moved slightly to the right, out of his field of view. When he found it again through the telescope it seemed to have shrunk. "I -- I don't know what you -- " he stammered. "You are alone. I do not understand how you people can divide guilt, but out here I know it cannot be done. You are one man and you have no place to hide." "If I -- press this button -- " "You will make mean comfort for yourself. You are ready?" "I hadn't thought that -- that -- " "Your folk are often double." "I didn't think you would be quite -- " He hesitated, his mind spinning soundlessly on fine threads over the abyss. The button beneath his finger became a stone, himself the sword, terrible in its weight. A click, buzz, static. The voice passed from him. "Walters, Walters. Evers here. Intersection should have occurred. We just got a fragment of some transmission -- part of it sounded like you. What's happened?" K enneth Walters reached for the switch that would allow him to transmit and found it already on, warm meter glowing. "I don't know," he said. More static. Houston was probably using one of the lunar satellites to relay. "Well, you had damn better find out. About a minute ago we picked up a signal of some sort from the surface, too. Parallax puts the source near Mare Marginis. We thought maybe the Marauder had altered course and landed there." "No, it's right in front of me." Kenneth peered out and found the pearl on black velvet. From the tail of it came a line of brightness, dimming the silver glow. It was clean and precise, carving order from the chaotic darkness that enveloped it. He felt his eyes become damp and he did not know why, though he felt a longing he had not known for many years. It '# IF moved, captive of vastness, inexpressibly lonely. "Walters! Report. Did the missile go off all right?" "Yes." A blur of sound. "score? Did it score?" "In a manner of speaking." "What?" "It detonated before it hit. No damage." "And the backup? We haven't registered any jump in radiation levels." With a gathering rush, softly, Kenneth Walters felt a weight lifted from him. A clarity came into his world. He knew at last where he was, the rank and order of things, sensed the welling rhythm of events. He perceived a straightness he had not seen before, a simple and direct channel within him that restored balance. Without premonition, letting the words come out, he said, "You forced matters this way, didn't you, Evers?" "What way? What are you talking about?" "You forced death when you could have risked life," he said mildly. Silence. Then: "Now, Ken, there is a job to be done out there. You don't have time -- " "No, I don't. Not for this conversation." "Listen to me, Ken." A hint of urgency. "I've put all our bets on you -- the game depends on your -- " Kenneth wondered at how smoothly Evers' voice slid from the ragged edge of anger to silky persuasiveness -- which tone was natural to the man? Or was he nothing but false notes? "Goodbye, coach." "Walters? Walters? Report! What is the situation there? We -- " Ken thumbed away from that frequency. T he moment of silence was filled only with his breathing. The crackling static had fallen away. "It was not false, what I have learned," the voice said. "You, behind me, are one man who is not so hobbled and coiled." "I wonder," Kenneth said. "Your race has a stream of tongues. You communicate with many senses. These were hard for me. And I could not seem to find in the men who spoke to me the things that were in your books and art. It was as though there were two species. I did not understand that each man is so different." "Of course." "I have met other beings who were not," the voice said simply. "How could that be? Did they follow instinctive patterns -- like insects?" "No. They lived in a vast sea. Perhaps that explains some things. They were easier to fathom than your diversity. You are a tensed race, always moving in many directions at once...I have, never seen such turbulence. I am afraid I cannot stay near such danger." Kenneth felt a tug of disappointment, but he smiled. "It's easy to see why you can't understand us. The damned speak frantically." "No." "But we are damned. Coinpared to you we have little time." "Eight hundred thousand of your years are still not enough. Your time is short and vivid, mine -- I scream sometimes in this night." "Good God." A pause. "I'd like to have those years, whatever you say. Mortality -- " "Is a spice. A valued one." "I still would like the years." "You are not damned." "Damned lucky," Kenneth laughed, "but still damned." "What was that sound?" "Laughter." "I see. Spice." "Oh." He smiled, this time to himself. "Is your care so flat?" After a long moment the voice said, "I see that it may be. Each of you laughs differently -- I cannot recognize the pattern. Perhaps that is significant. Much hides from me -- I was not made for this." "But with all that time -- " "Yes. Those who made me could not see so surely what would come from their hands. I awake at each new star, as they designed. I perform my functions. But the sum is greater than the parts and -- " the voice paused in the drifting silence -- "there are dreams." Kenneth nodded, waiting, but there was nothing more. "What are you going to tell your creators?" he asked at last. "What happened." The voice deepened. "They decide." "Oh." "The rest is mine, the flavors. Your art and the set of your minds, only I am interested in those. They are for my times in darkness." "I wish you well out there." The pearl was dwindling, drawing up unto itself. "If I functioned as my designers intended I would not need your blessing. I would go through that night blindly. But I -- the part who speaks to you -- I am an accident." "Maybe my race is, too." "I do not know. Every race is unique. But friend -- those other IF men will exact, much from you when I leave. Would that I could help." Kenneth smiled, unafraid. "Well, it will be interesting. This was the first time we've been visited and now I've let the quail take to wing. They'll crucify me, lay me out cold. I'll never be out here again." "Not the first -- but no matter. You shall see. There were things written for you and left behind. Look to your moon. And perhaps -- perhaps you should be left alone now. I sense that much has happened to you and that you need time." "Maybe so. I'd still like to know where you're from." "I do not know." "Why?" "I was assembled by another like me between the spiral arms and sent away." "As lost as we." "Yes. Eight hundred thousand years have made it no different, no easier." "Well. Goodbye, then." The pearl was a diamond once more. "I think not." "Oh?" "I am versed in many theologies. Some say you and I are not accidents and that we shall meet again in different light. You are membrane -- I am not. There are things within I cannot see. Perhaps we are all mathematics -- perhaps everything is -- and there is only one whole solution." Kenneth thought. "I believe I see something of what you mean." He shook his head. "It's hard." "I must study that sound, laughter. There is your real theology, the thing men truly believe." "Huh?" "When you make that sound you seem to have a brief moment of what it is like to live as I do, beyond memory. Then you are immortal. Only for an instant." Kenneth laughed. They were rounding the back side of the moon, the iiarauder dropping away, a blue-green Earth rising. Earth was all he had, he knew. Yet he dreaded it, swimming in brawling life. The first part was going to be hell. They would court-martial him, hound him. This would be worse than the return from Mars, worse than he could possibly imagine. Evers would have his inning. He wondered if he could explain this brief flicker of time. He shrugged, eyes stinging. It happened to me then, my friend And here we go Once more Again.  i Did testing an alien intelligence require him to betray his own? the leaves on the branches hiding him, and Conscience Allan Odegaard extended his nonreflecting binoculars to the edge of the green fringe. The dwarf had given Allan's blind several sharp glances earlier, when he had inadvertently moved the greenery. At the moment it sat in its high nest, idly searching one lightly furred thigh for parasites. Allan saw that those it caught were discarded rather than eaten. He looked down to make a note. When he again raised, the glasses the dwarf was on its feet and stretching lazily. This male was approximately one hundred twenty centimeters tall and had characteristically broad shoulders and heavy musculature. In one G it would weigh in at over fifty kilograms and Zwergwelt was a #-G world. Except for the height, its resemblance to a hairy naked man was startling. The dwarf stepped out of its carefully woven vine basket and dropped to a lower limb. Moving with the easy grace of an animal at home in the arboreal pathways, it ambled to an intersecting branch and shifted to the next tree, a nut-bearer. On a planet without seasons a few seeds were always ripe. The short hominid picked two large nuts as it walked toward the trunk. Just as the leaves started to hide the dwarf Allan saw it pause, heft one of the nuts and suddenly let fly. A thin scream overrode the soft ripping sound of a body falling through the vegetation. The hunter disappeared into the thicker lower growth, hurrying to reach his prey before another hungry predator found it on the ground. Allan settled back and wrote on his pad that an adult male dwarf had obtained a meal of nuts and meat within two minutes after starting its evening hunt. Such proficiency should have indicated intelligence of a relatively high order. But the ease with which the sturdy hominid had obtained its meal had at least as much to do with a bountiful environment as with intellect. The slain animal was almost certainly one of the large rodents who lived primarily off the nuts of that particular type of tree. The dwarfs could eat almost any seed, tuber or fruit in the woods, as well as meat. Once again, nothing had been proved. Allan stared at his notebook, knowing from long experience that his three days' worth of data would be inconclusive when statistically analyzed. The dwarfs had an extremely large repertory of situational responses, but so far he had not recorded any actions unambiguously proving intelligence. Allan gathered his gear, slipped on his backpack and descended slowly and cautiously to the ground. He had barely time to reach the field station before dark. He set a brisk pace through the IF moderate undergrowth, glad of the chance to stretch cramped legs. O NE of the severat rocky hills in the area was on his left. Its limestone cliffside paralleled his path. Trees grew so close to the vertical wall that several branches touched it and a solid curtain of leafy vines all but hid the stone. Allan had passed this way earlier, but at a distance. From this close something about the rock face suddenly seemed odd to him, subtly wrong. He paused, staring at the thickest cover near the center. After a moment he identified the oddity -- the coloring was off. He took a step toward the vines and froze when a savage scream sounded almost in his ear. A second later a heavy body landed on his back, knocking him to the ground. Short but powerful arms locked around his chest and a hard head burrowed beneath his jaw, sharp canines seeking the jugular. He exerted all his strength and pulled down his chin, at the same time rolling over and trying to pin his attacker. His left arm was free and he brought the hand around to push desperately against a thick jawbone, aware without pain that the slashing teeth had already cut into his neck. He heard several sharp clicks as his opponent tried to bite his fingers and abruptly the creature rolled Allan in turn, swinging its head free. Allan continued the roll and they ended lying face to face on their sides. He brought up a knee, planted it in a firm belly and shoved with all his strength. The dwarf lost its grip around his shoulders, slid away and Allan finally had the use of his right arm. Almost instantly the short hominid bounced to its feet and launched itself in a dive at his throat, now exposed again. He doubled both legs and kicked. The dwarf went flying against the vine-covered cliff. Allan's laser cleared the holster just as the dwarf, which had regained its footing, ended the combat by darting behind a bush. The creature was visible again an instant later, but Allan held his fire. There was a final scream of animal rage and the dwarf was gone. Badly shaken, Allan got to his feet and brushed himself off He was bleeding profusely from several lacerations of the neck, but none seemed deep. He opened his pack for the medical kit and applied an antiseptic coagulant. When the bleeding stopped he covered the torn areas with plastiskin bandages. His clothes were soaked with blood, but he could do nothing about them. He had recognized his attacker -- it was the female who claimed this territory. Whether she had wanted him for dinner or had simply been defending her land was a moot question. The dwarfs lived alone except for temporary alliances for mating and the females were fully as vicious as the slightly larger males. That he had been attacked was his own fault -- a short detour would have kept him out of her way. Strange, he thought -- he would never have knowingly walked into the territory of a female leopard at the time of the evening hunt, but had moved into the dwarPs area without conscious thought. Because she was a hominid and he had the deeply ingrained male chauvinism common to his kind? The dwarfs did not have a leopard's deadly claws, but their dentition included four long cutting fangs. And in addition to throwing nuts and branches, one male Allan had seen had used a knobbed stick as a club. Neither activity justified a claim of intelligence, but did make the creatures fearsome opponents. Although the forest abounded in herbivores three times their size, the omnivorous dwarfs were the only large meat-eaters. Allan's carelessness had nearly cost him his life. He walked to the vines against which he had kicked the female and where he had noted the discoloration. He had heard no sound of solid impact when the female had struck the wall and he saw why -- there was a cave behind the thick cover. The dark opening also explained the subtle change in color. His pack held a powerlight. He took it out and, laser pistol ready, edged through the vines. In five meters both floor and ceiling started rising. Then the narrow tunnel widened into a small underground grotto. Allan moved the light around. He was standing in a circular cavern about twelve meters in diameter, with a low concave roof. The room was empty except for a single figure seated on a natural stone bench protruding from the rear wall. a statue, apparently made of clay and almost human in appearance. The workmanship was crude, but the sculpture had clearly defined features, a normal head and four limbs. The scale was slightly larger than human. No attempt had been made to indicate hair. The ears were outsized and lips were huge and ugly, extending like two halves of a saucer broken across the middle and lying on top of each other. IF the round sides protruding. This was not a dwarf cast twice life size, nor was it a man. Allan moved closer and touched the statue, then turned his light and swept it across the chamber floor. The stone was covered with a fine layer of powdered limeonly his own footsteps showed. He had an almost certain feeling this room had not been entered for decades, perhaps centuries. And yet the oddly made crude figure seated on its soft stone bench was composed of simple clay and was not even fire-cured. It should have crumbled to pieces from loss of moisture within a few days of its making. Allan shook his head in bafflement, then conceded the mystery was beyond his immediate understanding and turned away. He had to get back to the station. Outside again, he pulled the vines back in place. The grotto was as well hidden as before. Dusk was falling, but he could still easily follow the herbivore game trail that led toward the station. He walked the remaining three kilometers lost in thought -- on this trail he was safe from attack. Who had made the statue? Crude art might be within the physical skills of the dwarfs, but they were not sufficiently advanced in culture or intelligence to have need for a god. And what kept the fragile clay together? The last yellow rays of Pollux had faded when Allan emerged at the base of a low hill crowned by the foamfab dome of the station, a temporary structure. Halfway up the hill he used a key to let himself through a gate in the charged protective fence that encircled the building. Trees that approached the fence had been cut down, eliminating aerial access to the enclosure, but new green bushes were growing where the original brush had been burned away. At the door Allan was met by Victoria Gant, the chief of the station's nonscientific personnel. She was a short, dumpy brunette, slightly older than Allan's fortyeight Eryears and fanatically devoted to her job. She saw the bandages on his neck, asked what had happened and insisted on treating the wounds again when Allan admitted to having been bitten. He sighed and submitted. He removed his upper garments and Victoria opened each laceration, poured on foaming antiseptic and let fresh blood and liquid run out. It hurt when she carefully tucked the torn edges of flesh back together, but Allan gritted his teeth and endured. She opened a new tube and carefully covered each wound with a white gel he recognized as a coagulant and flesh sealant, then she rebandaged the wounds after the bleeding stopped. "We're late for dinner -- hurry into some clean clothes," Victoria said when Allan rose. She started cleaning up the small mess her ministrations had made on the floor. T hirty minutes later Allan had bathed and changed. Two Other dinner guests had just arrived -- the director of the Zwergwelt stations. Dr. Boris Magnitsky, and his aircar pilot. The elderly scientist spent most of his time at Main Base in the central highlands, but visited the three outlying field stations regularly. The four buildings were the only human habitations on the planet. The dwarfs had been declared intelligent and the planet had been proscribed except for rigidly controlled scientific work. "Did you finish today, Conscience?" the director asked, after picking delicately at his food. His voice was deep and pleasant, but had a slight quaver of age. A faintly sardonic smile touched his wrinkled face. "I'll be returning to Main tomorrow if you need a ride." Allan decided to meet the challenge head-on. "Doctor Magnitsky, I haven't uncovered one fact that invalidates the observations your people have made of the natives' intelligence," he said slowly. "Still, decision without an intensive investigation of my own. I'm going to stay here a few more days." "Then you'll have to catch the regular supply run next week. We can't spare the aircar for a special trip," said the director, rising. He was a tall man stooped with age, the first scientist past his hundredth birthday Allan had seen at an out-planet location. Magnitsky was also a giant in modern biology and when he had reported that the Zwergwelt dwarfs were not intelligent, as ruled by a Conscience some six Eryears before. Sector Chief Odegaard had been dispatched immediately to check on the claim. Politicians were always trying to influence the decision of a Conscience, but Magnitsky's scientific credentials were impeccable. There were also several psychologists on his staff. The problem on Pollux Five had arisen at a bad time. World Council elections would be held on Earth within sixty days and if the New Roman opposition could prove that a highly compatible world like Zwergwelt had been withheld IF from colonization by error, the embarrassment could cost the Conservationist Party the election. The Corps of Practical Philosophers had been launched with tremendous fanfare some thirteen Eryears ago to identify and save from exploitation worlds containing intelligent species. It had been proved on Earth that when unequal cultures met, the higher inevitably eroded and eventually destroyed the lower. Guns, antibiotics and power tools were far more easily absorbed than mechanized agriculture, birth control and a nine-tothree job. The resulting strains on the delicate fabric of social organization always pulled a less developed culture apart. After interstellar travel became commonplace in the twenty-first century the Conservationist Party decided not to export Earth's previous mistakes. Thousands of worlds in the Hyades group, containing Earth and the neighboring clusters of Ursa Major and Scorpio-Centaurus, had already been explored. No sign had been found of another space-traveling forms had been discovered, many of them in the early stages of intelligence. Save for being subject to scientific research, worlds containing such species were to remain untouched. The initial glow of virtue faded rapidly as the Practical Philosophers -- or "Consciences of Mankind" as they were soon dubbed -- did their jobs. The same factors that had led to the development of intelligence on Earth dominated similar worlds, with the result that planet after planet suitable for colonization was ruled ineligible. Now even the Conservationists found the P.P. Corps a hindrance. But the party and its most glamorous agency had become firmly welded in the public mind and must stand or fall together. Allan had been informed by Siggi Wilson, P.P. Corps administrator, that it was vitally important that the original decision regarding the dwarfs' intelligence be proved correct. Unfortunately, to date he had no proof that would enable him so to rule. II T he five men and three women finished their meal and started drifting into the common room for the night's entertainment. The director had brought some new Tri-D tapes. "Going to watch the Olympics with us. Conscience?" asked Margarete Olmedo, a pretty, oliveskinned girl who had been more than casually friendly toward Allan during his short stay. He was tempted. He had put in a long day crouching in his blind and whether or not he liked sports was immaterial -- the tapes showed Earth. But he also needed to start extracting the Figures that were going to build to an inconclusive statistic, and tomorrow he wanted to get an early start and construct an observation post near the female dwarf that had attacked him. She had launched herself from an overhead branch when he had made a move toward the hidden cave and it was not simply a coincidence that when he had hurled her away from him she had landed against the opening. Regretfully he declined. In the small cubicle that had been assigned to him Allan sat on the foamfab bunk and patiently assembled his data into class orders. He ran a preliminary analysis in all classes for central value and compared the result with the established intelligence scales used by all P.P.'s. As he had expected, the dwarfs were a borderline case with a slight bias on the lower side. Apparently the previous Conscience had been influenced by the creatures' biological classification as hominids and their demonstrated competence. Allan could not believe his predecessor had seen the hidden grotto and its god figure -- the air of untouched antiquity had been too strong. Borderline was not good enough -- according to P.P. guidelines intelligence had to be positively demonstrated. Allan sighed and ran a comparison check between his own data and the refined statistics gathered by station personnel and correlated by Magnitsky. The two were almost identical when obtained under similar conditions. Unless the more detailed studies were faked, which seemed highly improbable, Magnitsky's case was practically proven. The idea of delaying a decision until after the next election occured to Allan, but he discarded it immediately. The commitment of mankind to the avoiding of old errors had to be considered a lasting one, not subject to changing conditions, to mean anything at all. Zwergwelt had a nineteen-hour day and he worked through half the short night before tumbling into bed. He slept dreamlessly until called for breakfast. He lingered over a second cup of stimcaf with Magnitsky, who was preparing to leave. The aged scientist seemed to have something on his mind. Finally he pulled a flimsy from a pocket and said, "I received an interesting rumor IF on the daily activity report from Main Base this morning, Allan. The word is out that you're scheduled to leave for Earth and become Siggi Wilson's deputy administrator. Also that you just might break a short tradition and replace Wilson when he retires next year." Magnitsky chuckled. Allan realized his face must have shown his surprise. The present deputy administrator was leaving and Allan had been offered the job, but the thought that he might be groomed to replace Wilson was new. In its short life the Corps had had three administrators, all of them retired space service general officers. Since the Corps was a semi-military agency and all accredited agents held reserve rank in the space service, the short tradition had seemed likely to become a long one. What Magnitsky could not know was that Allan planned to decline the promotion. He has signed up for the P.P. Corps at its inception. In his sixteen years in the field, eleven as a Conscience and the last five as one of three sector chiefs, he had found a life more rewarding than anything crowded Earth had to offer. He liked spending three-quarters of his time in spaceships. And while gathering data on a subject species was often dull and tedious it also offered unique adventures, high moments of excitement and danger, the thrill of discovery, that no desk-bound job could possibly match. The two men shook hands and Allan slipped on his backpack. At the door he was stopped by Victoria Gant, who asked where he would be if they should need to reach him. "I'd rather not take a chance on your disturbing the subject under observation -- except for an emergency," he told her. "Understood. But there may be one. Allan showed her the low cliff on his terrain map. An hour later he was sitting on top of it, hidden behind some bushes near the edge. The tallest trees reached well above the limestone outcropping and he patiently scanned their upper levels with binoculars. He located the female dwarf in ten minutes. She had built her nest in the second tree away from the edge, slightly below the cliff top. The thick brush at the cliffs edge provided an adequate shield. Allan settled down to observation. This female had no children and, like the males, spent most of the morning napping and occasionally eating fruit. At noon she left and made a circuit of what was obviously her territory, but returned for another nap. Allan began to wonder where the dwarfs got their muscular power -- like male lions in the wild, they received hardly enough exercise to stay alive. B y the time. Pollux sank slowly toward the green horizon Allan was entertaining the hope that Victoria would send someone after him. It would stir the female into activity -- she might exhibit protective behavior if strangers approached the cave. But nothing had happened when it came time for him to leave. Allan donned his pack and crept backward until he could rise and walk down the gentle slope to the north. He reached the game trail that led toward the station and started along it, mulling over the obviously high but unrealized potential of the dwarfs. For some reason he felt listless and tired, as though drugged by fatigue. He could think of no reason for his weariness -- he had spent most of the day lying on the ground in reasonable comfort -- but the feeling persisted and grew stronger as he walked. Some instinct developed by a thousand brushes with death on primitive worlds alerted him to danger. He looked around carefully and saw nothing unusual, but the uneasy feeling persisted. There was an abrupt bend just ahead in the trail and without conscious intent his hand drifted to the laser in his belt as he started around it. And then he saw the waiting human female. She wore a black hood with a front panel that hid her face. "Just stand there," a voice said almost beside him and Allan turned to see a pistol barrel covering him from the shadowed bush. There was a crackling of brush from the opposite side and a second armed and black-hooded figure emerged. "Who are you? What do you want with me?" Allan demanded. "You will know shortly," said the female who had waited in the trail and Allan could not repress his startled surprise. The voice was muffled by the hood, but he was almost certain it belonged to Victoria Gant. She turned and started back down the trail and one of the two men removed Allan's laser and gestured for him to follow. He experienced a slight dizzy spell, but recovered and walked after her. The masked woman led the way toward the station at a brisk walk, but turned into an intersecting trail after less than a kilometer. Allan had to force himself to meet her pace. Two hundred meters down IF the new trail she turned into the brush. Allan followed for a short distance, the wo guards at his elbows, and emerged into a grassy clearing bordered on one side by a small swift river. Three other masked figures, one of them a woman, were sitting on the grass a few meters from the bank. When he stopped walking Allan's legs almost betrayed him. He sat down and rested a moment, then looked up at the woman and said, "This is an odd game -- and I don't really want to play." "It is not a game and your participation is mandatory," the woman replied, her voice cold. "This is a Safeguard Squad, Conscience Odegaard." Allan felt a small thrill of horror. He had heard the vaguest, most fleeting rumors about a secret society recently active on the outlying worlds and the word "Safeguard" had been whispered. He had not believed the rumors or put credence in hints that the recent deaths of two Consciences had been something more than the accidents they appeared to be. The thought that some of the people he knew and worked withcould don masks and become killers was insupportable. The horror he felt now was not for his own safety -- it came from the realization that the unacceptable was true. "I have heard of you, but only vaguely," he said aloud. "Tell me more." "In good time. Conscience. At the moment we have more urgent business. Please sign this." She extended a single page. Allan took and read it in the gathering twilight. It was the usual preliminary report filed over the subradio when a Conscience reached a decision -- it imitated his writing style reasonably well. It stated that the dwarfs of Zwergwelt were definitely below the minimum intelligence level and that the decision of the previous Conscience was reversed. Zwergwelt was to be opened to full colonization. Allan's name and rank of sector chief had been typed in. "I may very well file a similar report when I'm satisfied it's the truth, but not before -- and I'll never sign under duress," he said, handing it back. "You will sign -- and promptly," said the voice he now was certain was Victoria's. "I have a hypnotic and its antidote in this medical case. If I must I will drug you, order you to sign and then administer the antidote. But in your present weakened condition the double drug dose might be fatal. I advise you to sign." "Why are you trying to force me when this is probably the decision I'm going to reach anyway?" he asked. overrule your mistaken predecessor, which we doubt, you made it perfectly clear in talking to Magnitsky that you intend to delay a decision until it's too late to affect the coming elections. We can't wait. This will be just what the New Romans need to throw the idiot Conservationists out of power at long last. Now sign or take your chances with the drugs." She again extended the paper to Allan. He shrugged, accepted it and signed. As he handed it back Allan said, "I don't understand the rules of the game. What's to prevent me from repudiating this the moment I reach a subradio?" "If you are found innocent of Crimes Against Mankind in the trial you are about to undergo you will be kept isolated in a nearby cave until after the election," said the woman, her voice even and very formal. "If found guilty as charged -- you will be executed." T he horror came back, prickling at the skin of Allan's forehead. He had been seconds away from death on many occasions and had been frightened every time. But now it was not fear that sent cold chills down his back -- it was the knowledge that he was dealing with selfappointed executioners. These ment of him for what they alone considered crimes. He had thought such barbarism gone from human society -- today it was a recognized form of insanity. Victoria slipped the report into her jacket. In measured tones she said, "Conscience Odegaard, you are charged with Crimes Against Mankind -- specifically, with forbidding the colonization of dozens of worlds perfectly suited for human growth and expansion. You may speak in your own defense and I shall appoint a counselor for you. I suggest you take time to consult with him before the trial begins. I warn you fairly. If you are convicted by this jury -- " she swept a hand toward the woman and two men who had been waiting for them -- "you will be summarily executed. This is not a game, as you referred to it earlier -- for you the situation could hardly be more serious." Allan raised a hand. "A moment ago you referred to my 'weakened condition.' How did you know I was not feeling well?" A short laugh came from behind the black mask. "The salve VicIF toria Gant used on your wounds yesterday contained a new drug, discovered here on Zwergwelt, It acts slowly and weakens without to take you prisoner today and the drug lowered your ability to resist." Allan was so physically weak it was n effort to hold his head erect. His mind was clear, though, and he caught the illogic at once. "Then you had intended to force me to sign that false report even before you heard the conversation with Magnitsky. Right, Victoria?" There was a short silence. Then she said, "Your guess as to my identity is not important -- think just what you wish. And yes, we had planned to take this action even before we overheard the conversation that gave away your intentions. But enough talk. The jury and I will withdraw. The man on your right is the prosecutor. I appoint the one on the left as your counsel. The trial begins in ten minutes and I repeat -- if found guilty you die. Prosecutor, you may move out of hearing distance. I think he is now too weak to run." The man on Allan's right followed Victoria and the two stood talking in low tones a few meters away. The other one turned to Allan and said, "Conscience, this trial is real, not just an excuse to execute you. If we win you'll be kept on the drug for a couple of months and released after the elections, just as the judge said. What you do then won't matter because our friends will be in power. Now, the best way to beat this charge is to show what you've done for Mankind to counteract the bad. I've read the folder on you and it shows many cases in which you ruled 'questionable' species unintelligent, opening up several worlds to colonization. We'll throw those at the jury." "Are you saying I can't defend the work of the P.P, Corps in totoT" asked Allan. "Certainly not. That's a sure way to lose. The Corps as a whole has done more to hold Man back from his rightful place in the galaxy than any organization in history. Some muddle-brained Consciences and their bleedingheart supporters have ruled us away from worlds that could be colonized tomorrow. And why? Because some dumb animal just might develop intelligence a million years from now! That's what the Safeguard Squads have been organized to fight. Conscience. You know as well as I do that we need those worlds. But look, let's save it for the jury. Will you do this my way?" "For the moment," Allan agreed. His body felt as if it had been ravaged by a long illness, but he still thought clearly. Evidently the drug did not effect the nervous system. And his defender, probably one of the station personnel, sounded sincere. Night would fall in a few minutes. Allan had already decided to play for time -- if he could overcome his debilitating weakness he might find a chance to escape. T he defense counsel called to the judge and prosecutor. Allan struggled to his feet and walked slowly toward the jury near the riverbank. His appointed attorney followed and the other two moved to intercept him, but slowed when they saw he was making no effort to escape. Allan stopped in front of the woman and her two male companions. He noted that he was now less than fifteen meters from the water. "The court is now in session," Victoria said. "Is the prosecution ready? And the defense?" The two men mumbled an assent -- apparently neither was accustomed ta his role. Allan had been studying the three jurors in the fading light and was convinced the second woman was pretty Margarete Olmedo. The two women at the local station who had been kindest to him were coconspirators. He was equally certain he had not met the two male jurors. Something in the way they moved -- they displayed the easy but sure physical reactions of men accustomed to changing gravities -- said space service. Allan had a sudden grim hunch that one of those two would play a second role if the verdict were guilty -- that of executioner. And if he enjoyed such tasks, which seemed likely, there was little chance he would vote for acquittal. The prosecutor began his presentation and Allan listened carefully. The first words might have been lifted directly from a hot speech by a New Roman politician -- they created a familiar blend of fact, prejudice and distortion. The diatribe was directed not as much against Allan as against the Conservationists in general and the P.P. Corps in particular. The charge that the Corps had denied human access to hundreds of worlds was accurate. It was also true that no species had been found with a civilization comparable to Earth's. Man was apparently alone in the galaxy and it was ridiculous and wasteful to refrain from relieving Earth's burdensome population when the means of transport and the empty worlds were available. The ConIF servationists had taken advantage of mistaken idealism -- and the maintain their hold on power -- at a cost to the future development of Man that was incalculable. Since they had succeeded in duping a majority of the voting public until now, a group dedicated to operating in secret for the benefit of Mankind had been organized. It supported the New Roman party but was not a part of it. The Safeguard Squads were its enforcement arms and had the vested power to bring known criminals to trial and execute sentence upon them. The last few items were not part of the New Roman dogma, but Allan felt certain higher-up party officials must be aware of the existence of the Safeguard Squads. It was hard to operate in space without the active connivance of some members of. the space service hierarchy. Allan felt a sudden numbness of spirit when he remembered encountering, the year before, a brigadier general who had tried to have him killed. At the time he had thought the incident an isolated one, the work of a frustrated officer nearing retirehonor for high political office. Now he was not so certain. The general had been forced out of the service. but had been immediately appointed to a functionary's post in government. The New Romans were either actively supporting this extralegal society or passively condoning it. Darkness had fallen. The judge produced a light and placed it on the grass, focused on Allan. Behind the glare Victoria Gant became a dim and lumpy figure, squatting on crossed legs. Only the prosecutor and defense counsel stood. "Your honor, I have a question of legality," Allan said when the prosecutor finished. "Am I to understand that the only possible punishment in the event of a guilty verdict is death? Why are there no lesser sentences? And if someone is found innocent, what keeps him from reporting you to the officials?" After a short wait Victoria answered and it was obvious she was speaking carefully. "There have been only two trials to date and both accused were found guilty. If found innocent they would have been placed on one of the habitable worlds their own people caused to be isolated. As for the death sentence's being the sole penalty for guilt, I would like to science is the one crime for which the space service is authorized to hold a field trial and execute upon conviction. It seems only fair that you be subject to the same penalty." "Thank you for the enlightening comparison, your honor." "The jury will note the defendant's remarks. Defense counsel?" Allan's counsel said, "I'm happy to be able to defend Conscience Odegaard -- he is certainly one of the better members of his club. I can name at least a dozen worlds where he made the decision that a questionable species was unintelligent, opening the way to colonization. A recent one was Beauty, where he overruled one of his fellows and declared the planet okay after the stupid idiot had ordered the colonists off. He forced one of our friends in the space service to retire on that deal, but at least we got the planet. On Misery -- not one of the better planets for sure -- he gave permission for the local spice processing company not only to continue its work but to expand. The company is supposed to leave later, when the humanoids there develop a little further. Even on many worlds that he ruled ineligible for colonization, like the silicon-life planet Crystal, he okayed the installation or expansion of scientific stations. I maintain that his record as a Conscience is unusually good and that he should be spared and freed after the election." "The defense counsel makes some good points," said the prosecutor without waiting for judicial permission to speak. "Odegaard is admittedly one of the less soft-headed members of his profession. But I deny that his record is really that great -- he has followed the standard line in ruling humans off any world where the local animals could so much as throw stones. If he is less guilty than most, it's strictly a matter of degree. I say we have no choice but to find this man guilty as charged." The defense counsel took a step forward and began a rebuttal. Both men had become wrapped up in their role-playing and were working hard -- each seemed equally sincere. For the first time since the start of this wild trial Allan could almost believe that it was real. The two court opponents argued for almost an hour. Zwergwelt had no moon and a light mist in the air hid the stars. Allan had been squinting away from the light for some time to accustom his eyes to darkness. He felt he had rested enough to be capable of at least a short spurt of explosive action. "The jury will vote immediately, since we judge by majority decision and consultation is not permitted," ,said the judge, picking up the light and swinging it toward the three IF seated figures. "All who vote 'guilty' please raise your right hand," One hand, that of the man on the left, shot up immediately. Allan guessed that he was staring at his intended executioner. The other man made no move. Margarete hesitated, started to raise a hand and then nervously lowered it. Her agitation was apparent even through the shielding hood. The judge waited a moment. AlJan thought he heard relief in her voice when she finally said, "Vote noted. All innocent, same sign." The man on the right raised his hand and the woman followed suit. The one on the left muttered something under his breath. "The verdict is innocent," said Victoria, her voice neutral again. She swung the light back to Allan. "Conscience Odegaard, you will be held in custody for sixty days and then released, provided we win the election. I am sorry we must detain you..." she went into a lengthy apology, but Allan was no longer listening. H e dove for the light, snatched it up, rolled to his feet and hurled it at the left-hand juror. It caught the man in the face, knocking him down, then spun into some low growth. In the sudden darkness Allan stiff-armed Victoria, sending her sprawling, and ran for the water, crouching and zigzagging. A laser beam, aimed low, flashed past his legs. Allan threw himself at the ground, hit rolling, scrambled to his feet and hurled himself forward in a long flat dive. In midair he felt a surge of weakness so overwhelming he almost blacked out. The sudden tremendous exertion against the deadening effect of the drug had brought him to the edge of physical collapse. The third laser beam burned him across the left thigh as his head hit water. He felt the shock of the wound even through the faintness. The water was unexpectedly cold and jarred him back to full consciousness. Momentum carried him into the strong central current and he felt it pulling him down. He vented his breath slowly and managed a feeble stroke or two to keep himself under. Even that small effort brought blackness washing back over his mind. He hovered on the verge of awareness for a long moment, and then felt air on his face -- his still inflated lungs had brought him back to the surface. He emptied them and sucked in air in a great gasp. Light swept over his ead, came back and a laser beam burned the air a few centimeters in front of his eyes. The water beyond exploded into a cloud of steam. He managed a feeble stroke that took him down, but again lost his hold on consciousness. For a timeless interval he hovered in the grip of shadows, eyes closed, moving as the current took him, and again broached the surface. The light found him immediately, but from farther away. When the laser beam came it boiled the water where he had just ducked -- he felt the heat before the current dragged him away. When he came up for the third time he was past the point where the light was effective. The accumulated need for air was so great he had to take several deep breaths. The mist had lifted and bright starlight revealed that the fast water had taken him around a bend. The sound of someone crashing heavily through the brush reached Allan from the near bank and he managed a few strokes to push himself farther out. He had submerged by the time the light swept the surface again. This time he managed to stay down for almost a minute and when he came up again he knew he was safe. It took a minimum of effort for him to keep afloat in the swift but smooth current. Allan gingerly felt over his burned leg and for the first time discovered he was bleeding heavily. The beam had taken away some upper muscle tissue was well as skin. Function seemed unimpaired, but the wound was nasty. After another half kilometer a natural eddy swept Allan toward the bank. He recognized the area and realized there was a place of refuge close at hand. When his feet touched bottom he fought the current to stand erect, finally staggered ashore. The effort spent him again and he had to lean against a tree. When he recovered he went on, hoping he was not leaving a bloody trail in the grass. He had no idea how long it took him to reach the rocky hill and the limestone cliff. If the female dwarf was now on the prowl she would find an easy victim. But only the noises of the smaller animal population disturbed the night and he found the rock face and its concealed cave with no difficulty. After carefully pulling the vines together behind him Allan struggled up the slight incline to the grotto. In the pitch darkness inside he sat down and finished ripping off the trouser leg partly burned by the laser. Unable to make a tourniquet, he compromised by wrapping the cloth tightly around the wound, placing his left palm over it and lying with IF the weight of his body on the hand. Instead of sleep he felt the familiar black fingers again closing around his mind -- he must have lost a lot of blood. His imprisoned hand was swiftly growing numb and Allan could not tell if the bleeding had slowed or was carrying him toward death. But he knew with absolute certainty that he could not rise from the powdered limestone floor, that he must live or die on what he had managed to that point. The blackness deepened and Allan surrendered his hold on life and let the fingers pluck him up and cast him into a wider, stronger river, where he floated toward a more lasting darkness. HI He opened his eyes and shrank back from the incredible countenance bending over him. The huge flattened lips that extended ten centimeters beyond the lumpy nose twisted into a grin. "Come on, Keeper-of-the-Earthman'sBurden, on your feet. We're going for a little walk." The voice was high and peremptory, hauntingly familiar to Allan. What he saw he could not believe. The rough clay statue had come to life and was kneeling beside him, one crude arm extended to help him up. Allan closed his eyes to the nightmare, but it refused to go away. Instead he felt a large hand pulling him up and he reluctantly rose to his feet. The effort made his head swim and he staggered -- only the supporting clay arm kept him from falling. He opened his eyes again, and saw that the little circular cavern was lighted by a dim blue radiance. He glanced at the roughly outlined face towering a foot above his head -- and quickly looked away. The sight was unacceptable to the senses. He had to be delirious. "Come on, fella, let's take a little stroll and say hello to your friends in the Safeguard Squad. They're looking for you." One grainy arm moved across Allan's back and a huge hand clasped him under the right armpit. As the ponderous body urged him forward he instinctively gripped the supporting shoulder and was partly carried to the low tunnel. The living statue had to stoop to miss the ceiling. As they walked down the gentle slope Allan felt the rough clay under his hand. The surface did not move and shift to indicate internal muscular activity. With thumb and forefinger he tried to pinch off some material but could not. "Leave off trying to steal my corporeal substance there, fella," said the slightly high but pleasant voice that Allan knew from long ago, but still could not place. They reached the vine curtain and carefully maneuvered through it. Pollux was almost overhead, its yellow rays highlighting another day on a nearly perfect world. Allan had revived slightly, though dizziness was a constant menace, waiting a chance to pounce. He recognized the now familiar effect of the drug as a deep and abiding lassitude, but he was also feverish and not fully recovered from the shock of a serious wound. As he and the statue started through the woods, moving faster in the open, the exertion brought blackness swirling toward him. Just before it hit Allan finally remembered why the statue's voice was familiar. "Clay," he gasped. "Clay Forrester -- " And then consciousness retreated and hovered, taunting him, just outside his skull. When the dark clouds lifted his companion was chuckling aloud. "Straight on, fella, straight on. This is of Clay talking, or at least his personality as you saw it when you knew him." "But -- but why?" Allan asked, feeling helpless and lost. "If you aren't human -- " "You'd have a hell of a time communicating with me in my elemental form, junior. And that would be a pretty good yuk if you understood it, 'cause it happens I am an elemental. And I chose Clay's personality out of the several I could have formed from your memory 'cause this body I'm activating is made of the stuff and that's just the type of campy joke he'd like. It also fits in with the fact I've got to lay a few heavy words on you, and Forrester never dug anything more than displaying his superior erudition. So just call me Qay." That description of his former college friend was accurate enough. Allan remembered Clay with fondness, though he had an exasperating affectation of using colloquial horrors of speech that had enjoyed a brief popularity and then died into history. Clay had remained a reacher when Allan joined the P.P. Corps and, to the best of Allan's knowledge, had carved out a successful career for himself on Earth. They had reached the game trail and Allan heard voices around a bend ahead -- one was Victoria Gant's. "Yeah, they're lookin' for you, daddyo," said Clay, the wide flat lips grinning in earthy mockery. "Stand to the side and I'll hide us IF by casting a spell that'll dazzle the minds of men." N ightmare or delirium, the experience was terrifyingly real. Allan clung to a sturdy bush and waited. Clay standing by his side. Victoria and two men Allan did not recognize rounded the bend. These strangers had to be the male members of the jury. One had a plastiskin strip across his forehead. As they passed, the bandaged man turned and looked directly at Allan, In two cold and remote gray eyes Allan read a lingering fascination with -- and hunger for inflicting on any prey available -- the finality of death. A hunter's madness. Up to this point Allan had accepted the unacceptable with numbed acquiesence. When the killer looked through him and continued to search the woods on both sides, it finally became too much to bear. He waited until the three hunters had passed out of hearing and said, "I can't believe this any more." Clay chuckled, a light, pleasant sound. "It took a pretty good tolerance for you to come this far, dad. But brace yourself -- the worst is yet to come." "If you can keep them from seeing us," Allan said slowly, "can't you do something about my physical weakness? Lend me some of the strength you've got animating that clay figure?" "Could, but ain't gonna -- want you just as you are for reasons of mental health you'll understand better later. Let's follow your dedicated friends for the moment. And go ahead and talk -- they can't hear us." They stepped into the trail and started after the three humans. "Who are you?" Allan demanded. "Or what are you?" "I told you what I am, Allan -- an elemental. We were around before your ancestors swung that first bone club and will be here after your descendants have mutated themselves up the ladder. But just to keep from making this too simple, only a small part of my consciousness is in this sloppy form supporting you. Most of it is back on the old home grounds, Mother Earth and environs" "God is a concept alien to -- " Allan began. "Naw, that's too simple also, Allan, baby. There's nothing anthropomorphic about me in my basic form." It was too much. Allan's logic and reason failed and his trained mind was useless. And then with a flash of insight he saw his way clear -- and accepted the fact he was dealing with matters beyond logic and reason. A soft chuckle came beside him and he realized that Clay was reading his thoughts as they formed. "Yeah, keerect, dad. Logic and reason do have to be expressed, though, before you can place me in context. Not even I can follow the subprocesses that eventually produce a mental verbalization." For a moment Allan had managed to forget his physical weakness. He was reminded when dizziness again assailed him and his legs abruptly buckled. Clay supported him without slackening his pace. After some moments of foot-dragging the spell passed and Allan could walk again. "I think I've made the quantum jump," he said aloud. "Okay, I'm in a new universe. But I'm lost. Guide me." "That's what I'm here for. Tell me, Allan, when you were a small child and looked at the sun, what did you see?" Allan thought for a moment, then said, "A big white ball in the sky that hurt my eyes." "And when you were a teenager in Preparatory -- what was the sun then?" "A mass of gases heated by atomic processes in a central core, the source of all energy in the solar system and probably of all matter. The sun was an incredibly complex mechanism and only specialists understood it in depth." "And when you became to a degree a specialist during your astronomy courses in college?" "I moved from external large basics into fundamentals, more details. I learned how and why the hydrogen-into-helium fusion process works, how other elements are created, the complete life cycle of a star. I also learned there's a great deal we still don't know and may never know." "Right. And during these years that was the same sun sitting out there, not changing to any appreciable degree. Your grasp, your understanding of it changed. Now as to what I am -- you're just at the small child stage, Allan. You've got a long way to go to reach Preparatory, much less college." "Then you're a higher intelligence? I've found a more advanced life form than man -- you?" Even as he spoke Allan realized his words sounded distorted, as though they missed the real point. Clay sighed. "No, damn it. I'm above intelligence and evolution. Those concepts are meaningless when applied to me. I told you -- I'm an elemental, as much a part of Earth and the sun as the gravitic force that binds them together. Use the previous analogy IF but substitute intelligence for the sun and you'll have a better idea of what you really know on the subject." That hurt. Allan found his reason rebelling, but the conviction that he had just heard an unyielding truth slowly swelled and grew until it overwhelmed him. His voice was dull when he finally acknowledged the bitter fact. "Then -- my life has been wasted. I've specialized in the study of intelligence and made hundreds of decisions that vitally affect entire species -- based on what I thought we knew." "Wrong again. When the sun hurt your eyes you learned as a child not to stare directly at it -- that was learning by immediate personal experience. In school you switched to new learning techniques, the manipulation of symbols and concepts. The process lost immediacy, but the volume of learning grew tremendously because of the nature of the working medium, the ability of symbolical representation to condense tremendous amounts of knowledge into forms that can be quickly absorbed. In dealing with intelligence. Homo sapiens is still in the personal experience area and is going to be there for some time. You learn as you grow, doing the best you can with what you know at the particular moment. You can't refuse to act simply because you know a deeper understanding will come after you've advanced to an entirely new technique of knowing and learning." T he changes in Allan's personal orientation were coming too rapidly, were too profound for absorption. He had not yet fully accepted the testimony of his senses about the reality of what was happening. "Then why are you telling me about heights I'm never going to reach? What do you want?" "Well, laddiebuck, now that we've cut the watermelon rind we get down to the juicy heart. You've finally strayed from the straight and narrow by making a wrong decision and you're about to compound the error by following it with a second one. I'm here to change your mind on both, if that can be done without actual interference. We elemental have our own rules -- there's no such thing as total freedom anywhere in the universe -- and one is that we don't interfere with 'lower' iffe forms. Sound familiar? But if you choose a new path when we finish our walk, especially considering that you're not going to believe this conversation tomorrow anyway, then I haven't bothered you any more than your research stations bother the dwarfs. And to hit 'em in reverse order, that's the second wrong decision you're about to make, that our short look-alikes aren't intelligent. They are." "Not as I understand intelligence at my child's level," said Allan stubbornly. "Technically and temporally you're quite right, but you've got a short-term perspective. I was on this planet about forty thousand years ago for reasons that are none of your business. At that time the dwarfs would have passed your tests. Your own ancestors were scavenging carrion for a living back then, incidentally. That's when these long-toothed shorties made this statue of the form I took. I kinda' liked it and told the clay to hang together. Then this world warmed up a little and turned entirely too lush. The result was that earning a meal became too easy and the dwarfs regressed. All they really need are some hard times and those are coming within a thousand of their years. This continent is going to dry out and wrinkle up like an old apple. Five thousand years after that they'll be finding some of your artifacts and writing learned papers on the unexpected metallurgical abilities of their primitive ancestors." "I don't have any choice but to accept that -- as I accept you -- " They had caught up with Victoria and her two companions, who were standing at the river's edge, discussing the possibility that he had survived the swift water. He learned they knew the laser beam had caught him and considered it likely he had drowned. Two other squadsmen had launched a raft upriver and were poling it toward them, searching the banks for his body. Allan had reached a temporary equilibrium between drug and fever and for the moment was having no difficulty clinging to consciousness. "What's the first mistake, the one I've already made?" he asked the hulking figure beside him. Clay sighed again. "Now we get down to the real nitty-gritty, Allan. Brace yourself, 'cause you ain't heard nothin' yet." Allan had already heard more than enough, but he tried to compose himself to accept the worst. "You've already made a firm decision to reject that deputy administrator's job," Clay said slowly, apparently picking his words with care. "You did this for a purely selfish reason -- the fact that the life you lead now is a hell of a lot more exciting and interesting than anything Earth can offer. I want IF you to change your mind. The P.P. Corps will need you in that top spot when Siggi Wilson leaves and with all its faults it's a good organization. Some of my fellow elemental in other systems -- including this one -- want the work you're doing to continue. And on the personal level -- you're about spoiled for field work anyway. Take the bigger job and quit while you're ahead." The world turned dark again for Allan, but this time he recognized the encroaching blackness as a frantic defense against believing what he had Just heard. He forced back the tempting oblivion. "What do you mean I'm spoiled for field work?" "I'm sorry this has to be hard to take, Allan, but keep in mind that the cut a surgeon makes to operate could kill a man if that were the intent. Instead it's the first step in the healing process. You have more than a touch of arrogance in you. It's a common fault of the competent. With all the good intentions possible, you're beginning to think and act too much like these Safeguard cats looking for you -- like a man who knows for sure he's right. It's a dangerous and unforgiving attitude. I think you'd better move on up the ladder and let a younger and more idealistic person take your place." Clay turned and began walking back down the trail, still supporting Allan. "I don't think they're going to find you in my little hideaway and when the fever eases you won't have much trouble getting food and water. They'll be guarding the shuttle from Main Base next week, but you should manage to sneak aboard somehow. Competency is a virtue as well as a vice. In any case, it's your problem." Allan was silent on the short trip back to the cavern, trying to digest what he had learned. It was too much to be absorbed at once. Being on his feet for almost an hour had finally drained his strength, and he was losing his precarious hold on full consciousness. Despite the confusion in his mind he remembered at the cliffside to ask a final question. "How will I find you on Earth? You can't just show yourself to us and then disappear. Where are you in our solar system?" Clay chuckled. "Man, you're centered on the geographical and temporal location bit -- look, dad, I don't want you hunting for me and this little conversation has to be strictly confidential -- not that anyone would believe you anyway. Mankind has to grow up to us -- not just find and try to exploit us. Think about that. And when you recover remember this as just a vivid fever dream, where maybe you gleaned a few pearls of wisdom from the submerged iceberg part of you." They passed through the vine curtain and it was the last thing Allan saw for two days. H e awoke to a knowledge of serious bodily dehydration, but his mind was clear and the fever had run its course. He staggered outside, hoping that the female dwarf was not at home. After drinking from a forest pool and eating some thoroughly ripened fruits he felt much stronger and returned to the cavern. In the darkness he made his way to the clay figure at the rear and carefully felt over it. The statue was as lifeless as when he had first examined it, but seemed to have shifted its position slightly. With only memory to guide him he could not be sure. Without a light he could not even check the floor for large flat footprints, nor could he find the source of the blue light he remembered had illuminated the cavern during his fever experience. Still, he had not the slightest doubt of the reality of the experience. Four days later he crouched behind a thick bush only a few meters from the charged fence protecting the station. The aircar from Main Base was just settling to the ground and Allan saw with approval that it was going to shield him from the laser-armed gardener working at the rear of the building. When the pilot stepped outside and was also hidden behind the aircar, Allan picked up the heavy stile he had made and walked rapidly to the fence. Without cutting tools or power Allan had been forced to use dead branches and vines to construct the inverted-V stile, but it would get him over the two-meter high wire. He held it by one leg and carefully manhandled the other over the top strand. Each leg had lashed side braces to hold it erect. He moved carefully up the vinetied crosspieces and had just reached the top when a low voice called, "Nice try. Conscience." He froze, then slowly turned, keeping his hands carefully in sight. The out-of-uniform space serviceman with the murderer's eyes was standing a few meters away, laser rock-steady on Allan's chest. The two men looked at each other. In the coldly controlled face below him Allan saw all he needed to let genuine fear show on his face. The killer drank it in, his mouth opening slightly. When he began to smite in anticipation IF Allan hurled himself to the side in horizontal dive over the fence. He felt the burning touch of death in the air above his ribs. He landed on top of a young green bush, his next course of action already thought out. It took five seconds for a small laser crystal to cool between pulses. Three of those were gone by the time the breaking branches had cushioned Allan's descent to the ground. He had curled into fetal position during the last stages of his drop and he landed almost on his feet. He left them again instantly in another long dive into a shallow ditch he had spotted from the stile. Briefly out of the killer's sight, he opened his mouth and yelled. A surprised face appeared in the nearest window of the aircar. The face of his intended executioner rose simultaneously above the top of the stile. The man hesitated, looking from Allan to the copilot of the aircar and back again. He seemed to realize it would be impossible for him to hide the fact of naked murder... He stepped down from the stile and silently faded into the woods. For a moment Allan remained where he was. The copilot of the aircar had swung to the ground and was approaching him at a trot. Allan recognized him as Jacques Flomain, the civilian flyer who had delivered him here two weeks before. He was carrying a laser in one hand. Jacques kept his gaze on the quiet woods outside the fence and called, "Run for the aircar. Conscience -- I'll cover." On a world where a Safeguard Squad existed and at least two space servicemen out of uniform roamed at will and one killed on command, it was impossible to know friend from foe. Allan had planned to try to reach Magnitsky, of whose honesty he felt certain, without trusting another person. Now he had to chance Jacques' and the other pilot's being trustworthy. Jacques had advanced to the head of the shallow ditch, where he stood with his pistol pointed at the woods. Allan pushed erect and, crouching low, ran for the far side of the aircar. X Magnitsky said sharply. "You're sure the masked judge was Victoria. Yoii are reasonably sure one juror was Margarete Olmedo and you think you know both the prosecutor and your assigned 'counsel.' Why won't you prefer charges?" "Lack of any proof better than my word against theirs," replied Allan, The aircar pilots had brought him to Main Base immediately and were seated in Magnitsky's comfortable office. "Besides, my prosecuting Victoria and her immature crew would only make them happy. Fanatics are 'cause,' not that these people would draw anything like a death penalty. I think it was Wilhelm Stekel who said it best two-hundred Eryears ago: A mature man wants to live humbly for what he believes. If you had been at the trial you'd have seen how little Margarete and Victoria wanted to kill me, even though the roles they had adopted have forced them into it. I suggest you transfer all of them back to Earth, where they can work for the New Romans in legitimate ways. I'm more concerned with the space service officer responsible for those two roving 'jurors.' After the election we have to start rooting out the bureaucrats and officers who support these extralegal activities." "Of course I'll send Victoria and the rest back if you won't prosecute," said Magnitsky. "In the past I've had some reservations about the mission of the P.P. Corps, but now that I see what would happen if exploiters like the New Romans took power. I'll certainly vote Conservationist." Earth hears about the Safeguard Squads," said Allan, rising. "And I am filing charges against the two spacers. We can't have killers like that gray-eyed fellow roaming loose. Service HQ is preparing a gallery of all military personnel assigned to this solar system and I'll point out the ones I saw unmasked. We have Flomain's word to back mine on the ambush at the fence. From those two the Inspector General can work his way up." They shook hands, Allan headed for the landing field, where a planetary shuttle waited to lift him to the neverlander just entering orbit overhead. At the entrance port he paused for a last look at the lush and verdant woods of Zwergwelt, wondering how often he would be able to escape his new office and walk again through such primeval beauty. Not frequently, once the bureaucracy got him in its grip. Allan gazed in the direction of a small hidden grotto, where a crude clay figure sat in lonely but majestic splendor. There was still no doubt in his mind of the authenticity of his experience there. "I hope to God you're satisfied," he murmured and entered the shuttle.  IF Dear Readers: Many of you have requested a Classified which you can offer to sell or buy s-f books and back issues of magazines.  find business or money-making opportunities... share hobbies or information. (on sale July #) and the October # issue of IF (on sale August #). Classified advertisements will appear in both magazines at the low, low rate of # c per word (# word minimum)...reaching more than # readers of these awardwinning leaders. will close for advertising on May #. Use the handy order form on the reverse side of this page to take advantage of this opportunity for profitable mail order sales. Cordially, Frank Brennan Classified Advertising Manager May June # GAlAXr and If # tost # Street u this handy form to place your ads in the # per word (including name and address). #-word minimum. Payment with order. Sept July # Oct Aug # May I Nov Sept # Dec Oct # July I Jan Nov # Feb Dec # Sept I Mar Jan # April Feb # Nov I May Mar # June Apr # Jan I July May # Aug Jun # Mar I Mail to: Frank Brennan, Classified Advertising. Manager Enclosed is  bring results and profits because they reach over # of America's most enthusiastic science-fiction readers. At last the started -- some time in prehistory -- and it had never stopped. It had always been, had always gone on. The only pauses had been for moving. When the destruction had become too great for Tyne the same positions were set up on Skoob. Skoob had protested, so the armies had moved to Semreh -- and then it had been the planet Drith and then Narb, Adnap, Raeb and on and on from planet to planet, farther and farther from Tyne, from home. And no one knew how it had started, no one knew why they were Tighting, no one knew any way to end it. No one but Sergeant WaDyTyne. He was not with his troops. He had deserted them. He was crawling along a jungle path, five hundred yards in front of his front lines. He had gone. mad. He kept telling himself so. It was necessary that he be mad. Otherwise all hope was lost. He told himself that he was simply insane, had been driven insane by the years on the island, by the war. He crawled along slowly, hoping and praying that he had lost his mind. If he had, he thought he might do something. If not -- he knew that he was going to die. He was out alone for the first time. It was terrible. He knew the jungle temperature was suffocating, yet his blood felt as if it were freezing. But he kept moving. He had to keep moving. If he were right -- if he had lost his reason -- he would end everything. He would end the war. The smells of the jungle were nauseating -- they were the odors Crawling, listening, trying not to let the sound of his breathing be heard, he slowly inched along. He had to do it. Even if he failed he had to try. Even if he failed because his commanders were too stupid to take advantage of what he planned. But they would not let him down. After centuries, after millennia, the one thing they were all poised to do was take advantage of advantage -- any advantage. He moved along. He hadn't thought about his path. He hadn't allowed his brain to think of anything. He was a raving lunatic. Because of that he would do what was necessary. He would have only minutes, but minutes would be enough to at last end the war. He held his breath. He heard the Zytynes. They were directly in front of him. He waited, listened. Had they heard him? They had not. They were still talking. Slowly he regained his breath and then, very silently, slithered around and crawled past the Zytyne advance point. He was going to do it. He knew he was going to do it. Because he was mad. But was he behaving madly? No. Crawling was sane. He should not crawl, not if he truly had gone mad. But if he stood they would shoot him down. Or would they? H e stood up and waited for the blast that would kill him. None came. He walked upright and then remembered that no one walked upright. He let himself slouch and stumbled along. At first he forgot about stumbling, IF but then he remembered. This was not a smart army -- neither army was smart. No one stayed in a state of war as long as these men and remained military. So he slouched and he stumbled and kept on the path, not off it. The night was dark. He kept his eyes lowered. He had trouble breathing, but he made himself breathe. He walked through them. He rubbed shoulders with a patrol going out. No one said anything to him. He went on. He stumbled, almost tripping over a Zytyne with dysentery. The soldier swore at him. But he kept moving, past them, away from them, into them. He kept getting closer. And then he saw it. It was housed in the big dome. He had never seen theirs before. But it was the same. Both sides had the same. He thought about going into the jungle again, getting it from the rear, but then he reminded himself that he was not sane. He walked straight toward it. He took a grenade out of his belt and pulled the pin. Only his thumb kept the fuse from going. If he had to go with it, he would. He was crazy. But he was going to end the war. The guards were just doing a normal sentry pattern. He took his gun out and held it ready. He would try to get as close as he could. All he had to do was knock it out, jar it. Even a few minutes -- just minutes -- would be enough. He was going to do it. He actually was going to do it. He kept walking -- the crouching, stumbling, weary walk of a soldier. A hundred yards to go. No challenges yet. Seventy-five yards. He really was going to make it. Fifty yards. Twenty-five yards. No challenges. He was going to take out their War Machine. The War Machine had them all on tape. The War Machine could predict an attack as fast as one could be planned. The War Machine could counter a counter-attack as fast as one could be mounted. All through history neither army had ever advanced, had ever gained an advantage because of what the War Machine knew. It knew the brain patterns of every Tynian who had ever been born. Twenty yards. Even if he stopped or was shot down he was close enough. He was close enough to stop the machine for a second. Just a second, maybe -- but even a second would be enough. "There's a truce on, Dy." He froze. "There's a truce on. You want to blast, go ahead. But there's a truce on," the sentry said to him. "I got here," WaDyTyne said. "You lost. Even if you hit me I'll take it with me. I fall, it goes. Look." "I know. You think we haven't been watching you? The readout said you'd be here." "No!" . "Sure. You know you can't beat it. Nobody ever has." "What else did it say?" "You're a sergeant. Stupid Dytyne name, Wahrdytyne or something. Said you're pretending you're mad. Look. The truce just went in. We're supposed to tell you that we'll provide transportation back to your lines." He knew it was so. The War Machine knew. The War Machine always knew. "Look. The thing said you're not going to blast. Here, walk on up to it. Go in if you want." He looked at the sentry. It was so, but it wasn't so. He believed it, but he couldn't believe it -- he didn't want to believe it. He walked right up to the dome. If he lifted his thumb. If he just lifted his thumb, standing right there. "Why a truce?" "I think it's over. Your guys and our guys are having a big staff conference on it: Right now." "A staff conference? Together?" "The way I heard it there was a revolution back home." "So?" "So they decided, it's not worth it. The new guys don't want the war any more." "You're lying." "Listen. Do you hear any fighting, any artillery? There hasn't been any in a long time now." "It's over?" "Yeah. The way I hear it, it's over." "We're going home?" "No, Dy. Not home. They don't want us." "I don't understand." "Too expensive and they don't think we could reintegrate. No carriers to take us home. They're not going to send any carriers for any of us." "What are we going to do?" "The War Machine is trying to figure it out." "Yeah? Look. If you're not lying, you'll let me go in." "Go ahead. Hey, and call out what it says, huh? I can't leave my post, truce or no truce. You know?" H e went inside to the readout screen of the not very big machine. He recycled the printer. And then, still holding his thumb in place of the grenade pin, he carefully watched. The War Machine was still. The printout read: IF And then there was a gap... He waited and watched the screen. It wasn't a gap. There was nothing. He pushed the accelerate lever -- it was clearly marked on the control panel. Nothing happened. "What's it say," the sentry shouted in. He got up and slowly walked outside. "It says that it understands. Maybe it's dead. Maybe peace kills them. Maybe it's really over," he said, troubled, upset, searching, finding, pulling the pin from his pocket and slowly, carefully fitting it back into the grenade's safety. "You know what I think," the sentry said. "I think we'll get back." "How's that?" "First we take this planet and we use it to hop one step closer and then the next planet and then the next. Maybe a thousand years, but we'll get back." "And then what? I know. We land back home at the Spaceport and set up our positions and then our War Machine goes up against the other War Machine. "Never thought of it like that. Makes you wonder. Maybe that's the way the whole thing started."# Read Science Fiction for speculation on T how science might shape the Name world of the future Occupation Read Science News for accounts of how science is shaping the world of today Address City State... Zip Science News, the weekly newsmagazine of science. I yr.  #  # yrs. #  Each week Science News provides timely and intelligent news accounts # yrs. #  and discussion of advances in science and of public issues related to science.  Bill me O Money enclosed  Mail to: science news Subscription Department The magazine of today... for #I West Center Street the person concerned about toMarion, Ohio # morrow. tasted it in the pre-dawn wind that hissed across the top of the dune, snapping his robe and flattening it against his thin reptilianlooking body. It would reach them tonight at the latest, he judged -- a full ripsand. He looked south, scalp furrowing in displeasure. Dakshan was still more than a day away. He should never have agreed to take the passengers, If the caravan had been on schedule to Moveen instead of off-routing to leave polesman Kreesh and his shes at Dakshan, it could have sheltered in scalerock hills by midday. Now it faced the chance of meeting the blow in open desert. Below him the shiffeners were starting to unroll and make the first meal over their fire pots. The hobbled shiffen spread beyond them, long heads and necks snaking out in search of the wiry clumps of dune grass. Kreesh and his shes still slept, three bright humps of fabric on the sand beside their huda and packs. Tleth stared broodingly at the scene, tasting the wind again, then plunged down the dune in a slide of sand and pebbles. "Rig up," he shouted. The shiffeners turned heads, yellow eyes querying. "Ripsand coming," Tleth said. Their elliptical pupils dilated. They scrambled to unfasten hobbles and clip reins to the nose rings of their animals. The reptiles tried to dodge, hissing shrilly in angry protest. Their long tails lashed at the shiffeners with vicious accuracy and an occasional broad foot struck out as it was unhobbled. Tleth toed Kreesh. "Wake up." The polesman rolled over and sat up blinking groggily. "Caravanmaster," he muttered in greeting. "Get your shes ready to travel." Kreesh peered at the sky. "It isn't yet dawn," he complained. "We'll need every extra hour if we're to make Dakshan before the blow." "Blow?" Kreesh stiffened. "A bad one?" Tleth suppressed a hiss. As though any other kind would concern an experienced caravanmaster. "I doubt my caravan and I can withstand it in open desert -- certainly neither you nor they can," Tleth replied, jerking his head toward the shes peeking sleepily from under their hoods. "We leave as soon as we have our meal." The caravanmaster turned away, trying to hide his dislike of Kreesh only because the latter might mistake it for prejudice. IF Tleth did not subscribe to the belief that just because the pole tribes had vestigial scales on their scalps and spines in contrast to the smooth yellow skins of mid world tribes, they must necessarily be backward and barbaric. But neither would he respect any male irresponsible enough to bring eggheavy shes across the desert in blow season. Kreesh must be aware, even coming from the quiet deserts of the poles, that if the shes were brought to nest out here there could be no protection and any wind above a stirsand could erode the shells before they hardened. T he protests of the shiffen subsided gradually as the animals resigned to being loaded. A few tails still lashed, but sullenly, no longer aimed at any target. Tleth checked each animal, making sure the load was balanced and the rig straps lying flat between the shiff s spines. He paid particular attention that the two halves of the huda were secured snugly and that the padding was unwrinkled between them and the shifPs hide. Only when the caravan was ready to travel did he accept the mug Shiah, his head shiffener, poured for him. Normally there would have been conversation and joking in this pause before the day began. Today they washed down biscuits and hurriedly packed the pots. Kreesh and his shes were lifted into their huda and the shiffeners scrambled onto their animals, into the space at the junction of the reptile's neck and trunk. The caravan moved out in a long, shambling line. Tleth set the course and a pace as fast as the shiffen could manage at this temperature and let Shiah maintain it while he ranged his more lightly laden shiff back along the line, keeping it in order. He checked the sky often. If they kept moving they might have a few hours' margin to make Dakshan. Dawn came not long after they left the sleeping ground. The sky had been lightening gradually along the horizon but there was no more prelude than that. Suddenly the sun was there -- small, white and bright. The shiffen felt the heat almost immediately. Tossing their heads, they hummed softly in welcome. As their blood warmed they were able to move faster and a few, feeling good, nipped at animals ahead. Tleth moved in to break up an impending fight between a bull and a castrate who mistook the male's playfulness for amorous advances. The caravanmaster snapped his lash at the castrate's sensitive muzzle. The reptile hissed but straightened around in line. There was no need to discipline the bull -- he was busy licking the gouge the castrate's teeth had left on his neck. "Watch him," Tleth told the shiffener in line behind the bull. "Get between them if he acts up again." ert's pre-dawn quiet vanished. Small reptiles appeared on the dunes to sun themselves or hunt smaller creatures in quick, darting chases. Flyers swooped through the sky to circle above the caravan with a beat of leathery wings and occasional hoarse cries. Tleth watched them. Flyers meant the air masses were still not too turbulent. When the dhanzals and ganra grounded, it would be time to hunt cover. As the morning passed and the heat increased, the color of the sky paled until it was bleached nearly the same gray-white as the sands beneath it. But otherwise it remained clear. Even the horizon was unmarked by clouds or sand spouts. "Are you sure there's a blow coming?" Kreesh asked irritably when Tleth paused beside him briefly. The caravanmaster regarded him without expression. "Yes." Beyond Kreesh, in the other half of the huda, the shes rode silently, their faces set against the jar of every step. Tleth's mouth thinned as he studied them. If he had seen them before he accepted Kreesh's money, he would never have agreed to take them. How could the polesman be so insensitive? "If you're worried about making Dakshan, why don't we cross those flats rather than follow the dunes?" Kreesh demanded. Tleth did not bother to look in the direction the other was pointing. "Those flats are sink sand," he said. One of the shes sat up in astonishment. "All the area?" "Most. It is the main reason blows are so dangerous here," Tleth explained. "Sandwaves are quite common with the greater winds." The shes paled. Even Kreesh looked uneasy. Tleth regretted frightening the shes. To distract them, he pointed out a long gray mound like a very low dune in the middle of the sink sand. "I don't believe you have tarrays at the poles. They're species of swimmer, but larger than any you have. They are the biggest animal in the world." The shes stared wide-eyed at the gray shape. IF "How big?" one asked. "That one is about a hundred meters long. I'd estimate. Average for the species. The jets are closed but if you look closely just above the sand you can see its body fin moving to keep it on the surface. They come up several times a day to sun and saturate their blood with oxygen. This one will probably dive again soon." They regarded it with caution. "Will it attack us?" He shook his head reassuringly. "No. Tarrays prefer the sink areas to the denser sand of dunes and normally eat just small swimmers and burrowers. We have to worry only if we make so much noise it thinks its territory is being invaded." As he spoke the tarray rippled once and sank out of sight, leaving a fine spray of sand in the air behind it. A wave slid along the surface in the direction the tarray had taken, diminishing quickly until only expert eyes could distinguish any motion in the sand. Tleth glanced at the shes. They were watching, fascinated, their discomfort momentarily forgotten. "Will it come up again soon?" one asked. "Probably not, but another may. This sink is large enough to support many tarrays. You'll hear it first, a rumble like thunder. Then the ground will begin to shake and -- " "Tleth!" came a shout. T he caravanm aster looked up. Shiah was waving at him. Tleth flicked his shifPs neck with his lash, pushing it into a rough trot, and rode forward to his head shiffener's side. "Trouble," Shiah muttered, pointing with his lash at dhanzals circling to the south and east of them. Tleth's forehead wrinkled. "It could be another caravan," he said judiciously. "No ganra," the shiffener pointed out. The small flyers were fond of mites that commonly infested shiffen hides. Wherever shiffen were, ganra appeared. The furrows in Tleth's forehead deepened. "So we may assume we're being tracked by raiders." "Must be desperate to be out now." "Or clever. Their timing has certain advantages, provided they have shelter somewhere near," the caravanmaster said. "No one in Dakshan will worry if we don't arrive before the blow. And by the time it occurs to someone to search for us after it, no signs will be left of where we were attacked or of the shiffen taken. Our bodies would be in the sink." "What shall we doT' Shiah asked calmly. "We can't group and fight with that ripsand coming. And if they're riding zhazen we can't outrun them." TIeth twisted to look back over the caravan and at the horizon behind them, then quickly scanned the desert around them. Caught between raiders and a blow, one made defense against the other all but impossible. All but. He rubbed a neck spine on his shifT absently. There was one possibility. "We can increase their difficulty in attacking us," he said slowly, weighing the danger, "and maybe cut the distance to Dakshan in the process." It was not an ideal solution. Any other time he would not even have attempted it with shes along. "We'll cross the sink." Shiah's pupils dilated, but he nodded in acknowledgment and turned his shiff away from the bottom of the dunes toward a narrow gray strip stretching out into the slightly paler sink sand. The nearest shiffener behind him sat up in alarm. "What -- " he began, staring at TIeth. Silently the caravanmaster pointed out the flyers across the dunes. The shiffener's question died and he guided his animal after Shiah. TIeth was not worried about his shieners. Not all ranked as members' of his regular crew but all had had enough caravan experience to confine themselves to handling their animals, trusting the caravanmaster to route them safely. Kreesh was the one who might try to cause trouble. the passengers before they noticed the new direction. "We're taking a cut route," he told them in his most casual voice. "It's across the sink but there's; no danger. There are avenues where the grass holds the surface together enough to support our weight." "Then why haven't we crossed before?" Kreesh asked with a flash of suspicion. It was time for lie number two. "Because we couldn't bed down on it. There are too few safe areas large enough." The polesman did not look convinced but TIeth could not spend more time on him. The caravanmaster had no intention of mentioning the raiders. He wanted very much to avoid the undesirable effect stress often had on shes so close to nesting. In the sink there would be only two possible directions from which the raiders could attack. Three guards should be enough to withstand them initially two at the IF back, another up front, in case the raiders found a path into the sink that intersected the caravan route. Zahl and Hriss were excellent with skims, he remembered, and he had heard that Manth, new this trip, was also good. Reining bade his shiff, he paced it briefly beside each of the three in turn while he explained the situation in short terse sentences. They fell out of line obediently and took position, Zahl and Hriss at the rear, the new shiffener up with Shiah. Unobtrusively they reached back and shifted their skim pouches from the customary carrying place under the edge of the rig frame to easier access inside their robes. Tleth regarded them with satisfaction. The raiders would not find it easy taking the caravan now. Nothing surpassed skims as weapons when thrown by strong, accurate arms in open-sand combat. The raiders would have skims, too, of course, but they would have to ride in attack, not ambush the caravan from stationary positions, and their accuracy would be spoiled by the fast, choppy gait of their zhazen. The avenue of firm sand narrowed as they followed it deeper into the sink. At points it would have crowded two riders abreast. Tleth edged bis shiff into line just ahead of Zahl. He looked back at the dunes they had left. The dhanzals had not yet changed position. It would take the raiders a while to realize the caravan had changed course, but then they would waste no time altering their plan of attack. He fully expected to see them appear behind before a handsbreadth of the sun's passage. From the dhanzals his eyes AiA almost automatically to the northern sky. Still clear. Or was it? Tleth squinted. He thought he made out what might be a trace of hazing just at the horizon. Facing front again, Tleth whistled shrilly. Far ahead, Shiah twisted around inquiringly. The caravnmaster made a snapping motion with his wrist. Acknowledging with a wave, the shiffener flicked his animal with his lash. The reptile's narrow head snaked irritably. Shiah touched it again. It flung its head up, then broke into a reluctant trot. One by one the shiffen in line behind it also changed gait. Tleth knew they could not sustain the pace very long but he reasoned that a tired shiff was minor compared to the other hazards abounding in the desert today. He watched the line ahead closely. A trot was not the ideal gait for control of the leggy reptiles. Not that he could help if one got into trouble; the avenue here was too narrow. in happening. One loose shiff, its stride longer than that of the animal ahead, overtook and rammed into the other. The one in front came around hissing. It also swung out and stepped backward, gathering for a charge. The thinner sand at the edge crumbled under its weight, dropping its hindquarters into the sink sand. Tleth whistled but the signal was unnecessary. The shiffeners in line nearest the stricken beast vaulted off their animals and raced to its aid. Grabbing the edge of the rig frame on each side, they pulled, shouting and whistling encouragement to it. The shiff scrabbled with its forelegs, heaved forward and dragged its hindquarters back onto firm sand. It was shoved back into line and the shiffeners climbed again onto their mounts. The line stretched briefly into a fast trot until it caught up with the rest, who had not stopped. Tleth wished he could feel relieved. Instead he found his eyes raking the surface of the sink sand repeatedly. How much subsurface vibration had the shifFs struggle caused? He saw Zahl also looking out across the sand, forehead deeply furrowed. An irregular movement up the line told the caravanmaster other shiffeners were doing the same. The shiffen sensed the increase in tension. Their heads swung uneasily and they rumbled deep in their chests. Shiffeners abruptly began soothing their animals before the rumbles could become roars. Tleth whistled at Shiahshort blasts down-toned at the end that meant hold the line, keep them moving. "Tarray," Zahl murmured. Tleth's eyes followed his pointing hand. Far out the sand rippled slightly. One of the big swimmers was coming to see what had fallen into its territory. In imagination Tleth felt the creature erupting beneath him but he resisted the urge to push his shiff into a run and carefully held it to an easy trot a tail's length behind the animal in front. He did, however, let himself watch the low wave that marked the tarray's passage. It was headed straight for the spot where the shiff had fallen. While he watched, it slowed. It stopped completely several hundred meters out and waited motionless for several minutes. Finally stirring again, the ripple turnedi and began following a course that paralleled the avenue of firm sand. Tleth let his breath out gently. IF The tarray .was only curious, not defensive. It would stand off watching them for a while or, more accurately, reading' the vibrations that came down to it from them. If the caravan did nothing to arouse its anger or make itelf appear a food source, the beast would eventually leave. Until it lost interest, however, the creature made another problem for the caravanmaster to watch. There was a virtue in having so much to think about, though. He realized with some surprise that he had not worried about Kreesh or the shes for some time, H e checked the sky again. The change of color on the horizon was more pronounced; there was no question now. He whistled for Shiah to slow to a walk again. Why tire the shiffen now? Speed might be desperately needed later. Presently the avenue widened once more and he pulled out of line to ride forward beside Shiah. "How do you make our travelage?" he asked. "We're on a much straighter course for Dakshan than the dune route," Shiah replied. "We've probably cut the distance by a third." He looked across at the caravanmaster keenly. "We might make Dakshan by late afternoon. provided the avenue continues." Tleth did not miss the emphasis on the last part of the sentence. He was only too aware that running out of path was the most prevalent danger in crossing the sink. "We're reaching midday," Shiah said, changing the subject. "We can't stop. Keep the pace. Trot when you feel we can afford it." "You'll see to rations?" The stores were on Tleth's shiff. Turning and kneeling on its back, he opened one of the packs. There was no way to brew drink but this would not be the first time they had eaten dry. He handed several biscuits and thin strips of dried panne meat to Shiah and Manth, then worked back down the line, giving each shiffener a like portion. He also shared with Kreesh and the shes, since their supplies were out of reach in their packs on another shiff. It was to be expected that the polesman would not have thought to hold out enough for the midday meal. Kreesh complained about having nothing to drink. Ignoring him, Tleth moved on. The shes, at least, he noticed, knew enough to be grateful for their portions. After Zahl and Hriss had been given rations, Tleth held out some for himself and began closing the pack. "Is the tarray still watching us?" he asked as he worked. Hriss nodded. "It has moved farther out, but it's there yet. And look what else is watching us," he said. He gestured back along the avenue. Tleth looked only because he wanted to count. There were about a dozen beings in the group following them, all mounted on zhazen, as he had surmised. They did not seem to be hurrying, except as beings might who were anxious to reach cover before the blow. As they might be. Outwardly and at this distance, there was no way to differentiate them from area tribesmen. Until they came close enough for Tleth to see the weave pattern of their robes, he could not discount the possibility that they were merely Dakshas coming home from a hunt or a puberty rite. "Don't show skims until you're sure of them," he said. "What if they just ask to pass, then attack when they can back the whole line against the edge of the avenue?" Hriss asked. "You'll be able to study their robes before that." "And if they're wearing Daksha robes?" Zahl put in, "If in doubt knock down one of your shiffen and block the avenue. Pretend you can't get the animal up. And call me. If they're raiders, being stuck behind you while the caravan goes on will force them to take overt action." "Such as sink skims in our throats," Hriss said darkly,, then grinned, adding; "If mine don't end in theirs first." They watched the group gain on them. The small stocky reptiles the others rode were faster than shiffen and should be overtaking the caravan more quickly if the riders were intent only on finding shelter. Tleth reached back for the skims in his own shifTs load. The outline of the triangular blades in the pouch felt reassuring as he slid them into his robe. "Estimate they'll overtake in half a handsbreath," Zahl said. The caravanmaster agreed, frowning. "I wonder why they're waiting so long. I think I'll look ahead." flicked it into a fast trot. Passing the line quickly, he rode ahead of it down the avenue. He wished he knew more about the sink. His only knowledge of it came from two trips made as head shiffener under another caravanmaster years before. What advantage lay ahead that the raiders were IF so carefully timing their overtake to use? It did not take him long to find his answer, literally run across it. The trap lay only a kilometer ahead. Swearing, he wheeled the shiff and lashed it back toward the caravan. "We run out of avenue ahead," he snapped in reply to the inquiring lift of his head shiffener's forehead. "There's a full twentymeter break before firm sand resumes." "We can't go back," Marith exclaimed in dismay. "No," Tleth agreed. "We'll have to swim." The two shiffeners stared. "Tleth -- " Shiah began. "I've seen it done before," Tleth cut in. Once, he added mentally. "Move out. Get these animals up there as fast as you can. Unrig and swim the shiff. Drag the rigs. Rig up again on the far side. And hurry. The raiders are going to overtake while we're in the middle of the operation." "The tarray?" Shiah asked. Tleth swore. He had forgotten that beast. He checked the distant sand. His mouth tightened. The tarray was moving out, finally losing interest, but that interest was going to revive quickly when the shiffen started thrashing their way through the sink sand. He thought fast. "Keep two men on each side, orie pair to unrig, the other to rig. They'll send each shiff on as they finish. Keep moving. We'll just have to try to get as many across as we can before the swimmer gets here." The pupils of the men were so large only a thin rim of yellow remained around them. Even experienced shiffeners rarely attempted anything as dangerous as this. But years of caravaning had made obedience a habit. Even if they had been terrified, as they might well be, they would do their best to carry out any orders their caravanmaster thought would get to their destination the largest number of animals and handlers and above all cargo. They lashed the shiffen into a trot and kept them at it until the end of the avenue forced them to stop. Tleth vaulted off his shiff, tore at the bujckles of the rig. With Shiah lifting from the other side, a quick flip cleared the cross straps of the spines. The rig landed heavily on the sand behind tl reptile. They quickly repeated the operation with Shiah's and Manth's animals. Then Tleth tore the rarely used picket line out of his pack and threaded it through the three rigs, finally handing one end to Shiah. "Hang onto the shiffen's necks," he directed, "and keep as flat on the top of the sand as you can. You won't sink far if you spread your body weight across a large area. Be sure to brush off the animals' hides on the far side before you rig up." The shiffen slid into the sink ers. Tleth remembered, from the other time he had helped swim a caravan, that their broad feet worked rather efficiently as fins. The animals left the end of the avenue, reaching out with their forelegs in powerful lunges. As they crossed the sink they gradually sank until only their necks, tails, and spines were visible. The necks and tails spread out to help keep them up while, as Tleth could tell from the violent motion of the spines near their shoulders, their legs were working hard. On the far side they scrambled up and shook themselves, much calmer than the anxious shiffeners they had dragged with them. Manth and Shiah pulled up the rigs, brushed off the shiffen and reloaded the beasts. Then Shiah tossed back one end of the line. By that time Tleth and another shiffener had the rigs off three more reptiles and the operation was repeated. "Car a vanm aster ! " T leth tried to ignore Kreesh's annoying, strident voice. "Caravanmaster -- I must talk to you!" Tleth sighed. Letting a shiffener take over his immediate chore, he stalked back to where the three passengers were standing beside their animal. "What are you doing?" Kreesh demanded. "A shiffener said we're going to swim across the sink. Are you mad? You can't ask us to do that, certainly not with my shes in their condition." Tleth regarded the polesman icily through pupils drawn to hairline slits. "It's a pity you didn't consider their condition before dragging them out here," he snapped. His voice thinned to, "You insisted on coming, however. That makes you subject to my orders -- and you'll obey like every other being in this caravan. Shiffen can't swim carrying weight and I intend, above all else, to save my equipment and animals. Of course, if you don't like my orders, if you prefer to stay here and wait for the raiders -- " "Raiders?" " -- coming behind us, I won't try to prevent you from doing so. You have until we reach your animal to decide." "When did you -- " Snapping around, Tleth ignored IF the polesman and marched away, robe billowing out behind him. He found he was no longer needed up front. The shiffeners understood what was to be done and were doing it as efficiently as though they swam every trip. Tleth was relieved and let them work while he kept the caravan moving up to the break. He paid no further attention to Kreesh, except that he did notice some time later that all three passengers were on the far side. Hriss yelled, "Raiders -- " The raiders were coming at a hard gallop. Tleth checked the caravan. Less than half was across. Resisting an urge to look for the tarray -- there was nothing he could do if it were coming, anyway -- he ran for the rear. "Dismount," he called. "Send up your animals." And as he reached them, panting, he added: "We'll meet them. Try to hold them until the shiffen are over." He reached into his robe. "I have ten blades." "Ten," Zahl said. "Twelve," Hriss said. "Aim for riders." They nodded. He looked over his shoulder once more to see how the swimming was progressing. The shiffeners were working frantically, jerking rigs off on one side, shoving shiffen into the sink, barely taking time to brush them off on the other side before rigging up again. There would be sore hides tonight from twisted straps and sand abrasion, Tleth reflected. He caught himself ruefully. Always the caravanmaster. He faced back toward the raiders. Then he heard a distant rumble like thunder. The sand trembled slightly beneath his feet. "Tarray." Zahn's upper body moved wryly. "We might save half." "All," Tleth said firmly. He smiled thinly. He would use the tarray. "Aim for zhazen." "On the ground their aim will be -- " "Aim for their mounts' the caravanm aster repeated. T he leaders were bearing down on them, sun gleaming on the blades in their hands. Tleth reached into his pouch. The skim was smooth and cool in his fingers. He drew back his arm, threw with a snap of his wrist and dropped to hands and knees on the sand. He felt the tug of a skim catching at his robe. The leading zhaze shrieked. It reared and staggered backward, three blades protruding from its broad chest. The rider jumped clear as the reptile crashed sidewise. The rider braced himself to throw, then went down himself, one of Hriss's skims in his throat. Tleth threw again. Another zhaze fell, this time into the path of two more riders. The reptile's convulsive movements and screaming panicked the other zhazen. They shied, hissing. One stepped too close to the edge of the avenue and went into the sink with its rider. The stocky reptile was not built to handle itself well in such fine sand. Zhaze and rider went under, screaming and struggling uselessly. The shiffeners hit two more zhazen. The animals were only wounded, not knocked down, but their fright and pain left them unmanageable. They bolted backward, compounding the confusion in the main body of raiders. A second zhaze went into the sink. A raider threw. Hriss gasped and folded, arms clutched across his stomach. Tleth reached for him with a free hand while snapping off another skim. This time the blade only sliced a raider's shoulder and deflected, fell into the sink. The sand rumbled more noticeably beneath the caravan. "Back," Tleth ordered crisply. The raiders stiffened on their mounts, pupils dilating, throwing arms arrested in mid-motion. The caravan was forgotten. Skims were shoved abruptly into robes and the riders fought to control and turn their frantic, terrified animals. "Run," Tleth said. Hriss managed only one step before his knees gave way. Zahl kept him from falling by grabbing him under an arm. Tleth and Zahl dragged the wounded being after the caravan. The last of the shiffen were ploughing through the sink, rigs dragging, driven by fear and the shouts of their handlers. The two shiffeners on the far side added their whistles, watching something beyond Tleth. The caravanmaster did not look to see what it was, simply ran faster. At the edge of the sink sand he and Zahl leaped out, Hriss between them. The sand slammed up into them, momentarily taking away their breath. They reached for the trailing straps of the rigs with their free hands and locked tight on them. They were dragged for what robes, eyes and noses and shaking as though about to engulf them. Tleth's hand began to tire and his fingers slipped on the strap. He dug in his nails but the fingers slipped farther -- farther -- until the strap jerked completely out of his grasp. He snatched for it again. Instead of the strap, however, he found another hand. It hauled IF him forward and up, onto firm footing again. The rumble was growing louder. Tleth wiped his eyes clear and looked back. On the other side of the gap the sand erupted. A violent gray-white fountain sprayed into the pale, glaring sky, carrying zhazen and riders with it like so many insignificant pebbles. While the caravanmaster watched with grim satisfaction, the huge form of the tarray emerged from the subsiding sand to investigate the strange invaders of its territory. "I thought it was headed for us," a shiffener said weakly. "It was," Tleth said, shaking sand out of his robe, "until the wounded zhazen distracted it." xV the sky again as he spoke, but this time he did not simply make note of its condition in passing. He saw more. The air above him was empty. Some time during the confusion of swimming the shiffen and fighting the raiders, the flyers had gone. At the same time the sky itself had been changing. The hazing on the northern horizon had become a wide black belt dividing the glare of the sky from the glare of the desert. "Rig up," he ordered sharply. The shiffeners obeyed without looking. They did not even take Books Adult Fantasy's in trouble. We don't believe it. Even if James Branch Cabell is an acquired taste, among # Tolkien readers there are at least than chew on seedcake. So stand up and be counted. Get in there and start yelling if the store is not carrying it. AH! AH! # ought to be reading this) are particuDomnoi -- his usual exquisite bawtly romp -- and Lin Carter's own Discoveries In Fantasy, featuring four well-known "mainstream" writers who were (virtually in secret) producing provocative fantasy... Also, an absolutely delicious, delightfully sophisticated fantasist Ernest Bramah. His first for us (and what a cover!) Kai Ling's Golden Hours. Bramah is some kind of past master at the grt of the written double-take. And God love his ever-living English.  new boy for our list but one who is very much known to s.f. fans. Keith Laumer has contributed five of his fine stories for a collection titled Timetracks. And we have an honest-toGod first novel by Alan Dean Foster -- solid, inventive, packed with ideas -- The Tar-Aiym Krang. Then the Pope is at it again with The Reality Trip And Other Implausibilities. -- a collection we like even better than most. Douglas R. Mason is back with a weirdo -- The Resurrection of Roger Diment.  MF. And. of course, his remarkable A Clockwork Orange which, if you have not read it yet. you certainly should. By all means see the movie, too -- it's not as violent or as harsh as the book, but it is. pictorially. Just as strong a statement against violence.  asked John Brunner if he would like to do a second novel on a major ecological subject artd we are happy to announce that Harper has contracted for hardcover publication of The Sheep Look Up. They are scheduling it for early fall. And we're hoping for a bookclub sale. Elaine Geiger has demonstrated her usual perspicacity and bought Dave Gerrold's When Haiiie Was One for the book club. And that too will later come from... BB time to mount, once their animals were loaded. Except for Hriss, who was almost unconscious from shock and blood loss, they stayed afoot, trotting ahead of the shiffen and pulling on the reins to keep the reptiles moving quickly. A distant gray line that marked the edge of the sink held their attention. Tleth looked back every few minutes but only to determinewhat their pace must be to reach those dunes before the blow reached them. He estimated they did not have long. The stir and stringsand that preceded the glow were already swirling along the top of the sink. The caravan was spread out irregularly from Shiah to Tleth, but none of the shiffen, even those without any handlers near, were fighting or straying. They smelled the blow now, too, and did not have to be urged into a trot. They wanted cover as intensely as the shiffeners did. A gust of wind lifted a thin sheet of sand off the top of the sink and sent it spraying across the avenue, stinging Tleth's ankles. The caravanmaster checked the sky again. The band of black was closer, blotting out a full fifth of the sky, and he could see several distant dancing columns carried by small spinwinds. He pulled more vigorously on the reins of the shiff he led. They could reach the dunes ahead IF of the blow, probably, for what good that would do. Mere dunes could not give them adequate protection against a ripsand. They needed a windbreak, preferably the solid walls of a settlement, but at least the partial protection of a thick outcropping of rock. "Tleth!" The cry reached him faintly over the rising wind. He looked ahead. A shiffener was waving at him, motioning forward. Following the direction of the being's hand, he saw a flickering light at the front of the line. Shiah was signaling back with a sunflash. S... C... A... L... E... R...O...C...K...A...H... E... A... D, the caravanmaster read. Scalerock? He squinted against the brightness of the sand, straining to distinguish detail in the rolling land beyond the sink. Yes. The hills looked higher than the rolling dunes they had left, also somewhat steeper. Their faces were blotched with patches of near-black that caught the sun in glints. Scalerock. He reached for the sunflash hanging on a cord around his neck and sent back; F... A... S... T... E... R. Shiah acknowledged. Moments later Tleth saw the foremost shiffen stretch out. Gradually the others followed until the entire line was moving at a trot so fast it was just short of a gallop. The shiffeners could not hope to keep pace with their long-legged animals. They had to vault on, using the reptiles' momentum to lift them into place. Tleth wished they did not have to burden the animals. The shiffen were tiring fast. It was abusive to expect them to hold this kind of pace and carry riders, too. N evertheless, he drove his own shiff harder yet and brought it up briefly beside Hriss's while he peered at the shiffener. The being lay limp in the straps that kept him on, his eyes closed, the face slack. Tleth could not tell whether Hriss was dead or merely unconscious. The caravanmaster's mouth set. Hriss was an excellent shiffener. Losing him would be... Tleth stifled the unhappy twist inside him and looked back to check the blow's progress again. The twist sharpened abruptly into pure fear. Half the sky was black now. The wall of darkness towered above the desert, obliterating everything behind it, its raging foot touching the paleness of sink sand. But that was not what brought him snapping around to yell harshly at his crew as he lashed his animal across the neck. At the foot of the blackness, the sink sand it touched was not merely being picked up and churned or spiraled into spinwind columns. The sand was being pushed and lifted and itself packed up into a wall, a sand wall that grew a meter in height for every five forward. "Sandwave," he warned. The wind whipped his shout forward. Heads turned for the briefest fractions of seconds. Then arms wielded lashes. The entire caravan broke into a flat gallop, every animal and rider straining toward the protection of the scalerock hills. Even the loose shiffen ran in panic, all weariness forgotten. Tleth clutched the reins and kept his head tucked tight against his shiffs neck, his nictitating membranes were drawn against the particles of sand carried by the wind. The layer lifted off the sink and, carried with each gust, hazed the ground, blurring color and detail until Tleth could no longer distinguish the edges of the avenue. He was forced to stop guiding the reptile and trust its instinct for footing. The hills loomed nearer, but so did the double wall of blackness and sand. Tleth could feel the ground trembling -- worse, he could feel the shiff shaking with exhaustion. Thankfully he noticed that the ground was rising. The caravan was reaching the base of the hills. Strides later the leaders passed the first small outcropping of the slick layered rock that made up the bones of the planet. They were out of the sink. They leaped from their animals to climb the steep narrow trails up the side of the hill between clifflike faces of scalerock. The men went up on hands and feet, clawing for purchase in the treacherous combination of rock shards and loose sand. The shiffen lunged in uneven, tired heaves, pulled and pushed by their handlers. They fell often and heavily, sliding backward, losing ground. Shiffeners cursed through rasping gasps and lashed the animals mercilessly to their feet again. A part of Tleth's mind vaguely thought the shapes of the rock faces were somehow familiar but he did not take the time to try to analyze that familarity. He felt as though he were carrying his shiff up the hill. It stumbled on every other stride. Pebbles showered backward from the scramble of its broad feet to sting the caravanmaster's exposed arms and legs. Tleth dug in his toes and leaned against the shifPs quarters, then almost fell when the animal found footing and lunged up the hill away from him. He climbed tiredly after it, hoping it would not stumble again. IF T he sound of the wind was reaching a shrill scream when he staggered over the crest. Gulping air into lungs that seemed afire, he stopped to see what kind of shelter the scalerock was going to afford them, To his shock, the shiiTeners were not laying their animals down at all but were still moving, pushing across the rocky hill. Disbelief stunned him. The sandwave would reach them in minutes. He could feel it at his back now. If they did not take cover immediately... The thought remained unfinished as his eyes, angrily seeking Shiah, suddenly recognized the sandscape. Approaching from a slightly different direction subtly altered the relationships and shapes of the landmarks but the deep desert instinct in him finally identified them despite that. Dakshan, he knew beyond question, lay just beyond the next hill. He whistled at his shiff, urging it after the rest of the caravan. "A little farther," he sang at the weary animal. Their route across the sink had brought them straight to the settlement's rear gate. Shove on, old egg. Just a little farther," The reptile moved slower and slower, every line of its dragging legs and drooping neck and tail announcing its intention to lie down very soon and ignore' both Tleth and the blow. Sighing, Tleth used his whip. But even then the animal slogged up the hill only fast enough to stay ahead of the lash. Then, at the crest, its head came up abruptly. It squealed and hurled itself down the other side. The labyrinth of high gray walls and scale roofs that was Dakshan spread below them. Even in exhaustion the shiff recognized a settlement and knew it meant food. Just as suddenly the wind stopped roaring in Tleth's ears. It dropped to the whisper of driftsand. Tleth jerked his hood more tightly about his head and forced his aching legs to run faster. Dakshan's entry maze was still almost a half-kilometer away. Into the silence came a single sound -- low, barely audible. It did not remain low but swiftly crescendoed to a roar so great it reached beyond hearing. The pseudo-silence lasted a heartbeat and then was torn apart by the crashing explosion of the sandwave smashing into the high scalerock faces. Tleth lurched, almost falling. He caught himself on the shiffs rig and ran on. The walls were only a quarter-kilometer away now. The broken wave reached him as a fine haze of silvery particles sifting down from the sky like the dawn drizzle of the wet season. Another heartbeat, however, and lO?-' the blow struck. The drizzle became, suddenly, driving death. The grains, propelled by the mighty wind, pierced the tough fabric of Tleth's robe to stab him like countless tiny skims. He felt no pain, though. Only numbness. Running blindly beside his shiff, he hoped they were still on course for the gate. He did not dare open his hood and expose his face. Much longer in the ripsand could be fatal to both caravanmaster and reptile. The flesh would be scoured from their bones. He risked one hurried peek, finally. They were just six shiffen lengths from the entry maze. As though realizing it was about to lose its prey, the blow slashed furiously at them. But the caravanmaster utilized the added force of the wind to swing through the gate. The wind screamed in frustration, unable to reach him beyond the protective angles of the maze. Sand still fell in Dakshan, dropping from the blow as it passed over, but the walls shut out the wind. Inside the settlement, Tleth ran swift, probing eyes over the heaving shiffen and the equally out-ofbreath shiffeners sagging beside them -- over the two shes and their sick-huddled husband -- over Hriss. The shiffener hung on his mount in the unmistakable slackness of death. The caravanmaster totaled the loss tiredly -- one man, no cargo, no shiffen. Any reptiles that were lamed would be sound again by the time the ripsand subsided and the caravan could continue to Moveen. Objectively, it was a successful crossing. "Unrig," he ordered when he had his breath back enough to talk again. His voice was hoarse with weariness. "I want every animal checked for strap rubs, sand burns and lameness and treated before any shiffeners leave the stable area." The shiffeners groaned. Shiah regarded Tleth with concern. "Shall I find you a physician?" Tleth looked down at himself. His robe was shredded and bloodstained. His skin must be raw beneath it. But he shook his head. "Later." A pity, came a casual thought as he reached for the buckles of his shiffs rig, that the tarray destroyed so much of the avenue. The route had saved them more than half a day. It might be profitable to explore the sink and chart if for future use. It was certainly worth considering -- later. Preferably, he decided firmly, filing the idea away, while in a state of intoxication in a pleasant tavinn garden under a clear, more benevolent sky.  IF Colony Motor Hotel, # Bonhomme, Clayton, Missouri. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Pulpcon, Box #, Overland Branch# St. Louis, Missouri #.  Broadway Motel, U.S. Route #, Johnson City, Tennessee. Guest-of-Honor: Keith Laumer. For information: Len Collins, Route #, Box #, Church Hill, Tennessee #. Farmer. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For informaKansas City, Missouri #. # # E. Pacific Coast Highway, Long Beach, California. Guest-of-Honor: Lloyd Biggie, Jr. Advance registration: #, # after June #. For informaArleta, California #.  European Science Fiction Convention with the Trieste SF Film Festival. Membership: #, attending; #, Tony Lewis, # Unity Ave., Belmont, Leland Sapiro, Box ,#, University #AA, Melbourne, Victoria #; O-okayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo. Convention address: Eurocon #, Casella Postale #, #, Venezia, Italy.  Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Detroit Tri-Con, # Westwood Avenue, Detroit, Michigan #. # World Science Fiction Convention. At the International Hotel, #I West Century Blvd., Los Angeles, California #. Guest-of-Honor: Frederik Pohl. Fan Guests-of-Honor: Robert and Juanita Coulson. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: L.A. Con, P.O. Box #, Santa Monica, California. Hugo Gernsback Kurt Lasswitz Philip Jose Farmer Philip Jose Farmer Fred Hoyle and Geoffrey Hoyle Piers Anthony T here was a time when watching the development of science fiction was a breathtaking hobby. Here was a field where growth and change were violently explosive compared to the petty progress of other literatures. Science fiction began as a distinct category in #. It was then a clanking mess of thinly disguised lectures on technology, almost entirely lacking in style, characterization and anything but the most rudimentary plotting. After a mere five years, however, science fiction had discovered space opera to give it scope, and new writers had lifted it nearly to the level of the general pulp writing of the time. When the field was a decade old, Stanley G. Weinbaum, Raymond Z. Gallun and Don A. Stuart had turned the bug-eyed evil monsters into alien friends and had replaced the wonders of pure gadgetry with the impact of emotional development. By #, an influx of new writers had introduced style and characterization better than could be found in most magazine fiction and science fiction had become a literature of human ideas, struggles, values and dreams. Since then most of its developnnent has been much slower and some has been along a side-trail that parallels the crawling mainstream. Some experimentation has improved the field, though much has been simply ipecac-frosting on the cake. Probably such trends are inevitable, since there must be a limit to how much improvement is possible in commercial literature. But because of the progress of the field, I was particularly interested in Ultimate World, by Hugo Gernsback (Walker, #). Gernsback set the model for the original form of science fiction with his technological, predictive and endlessly explanatory Ralph #C #I back in #, and many of the earliest stories might have been modeled on that. Ultimate World was written in #, long after the major evolution of the field had been achieved. How much had the changes affected his work? Gernsback was an alert, intelligent man of amazing ability, as his work of publishing in the electronics field proved. And, aside from the profit motive that influenced his science-fiction publishing, he genuinely loved the type of fiction he had founded. It seemed to me that if anyone could change with the times, he could. I was wrong. The later "novel" differs greatly from the earlier one. But the changes suggest attitudes caused by age and our troubled society, not those derived from the premises of science fiction. Instead of emphasizing gadgets that might bring the millennium -- gadgets Gernsback knew as well as any man could -- he evidently had accepted the stand that gadgets had failed and decided in this work to try to save the world by an alien invasion and by preaching his personal theories of how man and society must be changed. For remarkable technical insight he substituted a human insight that is no more remarkable than that of any other dabbler with social theories. The style is somewhat better than that of Ralph, but that is damning with the faintest praise. The plotting, development, use of anything resembling human characters, etc., are certainly no better and may be worse. It's a bad book. This is its first publication -- out of deep respect for Gernsback and consideration for all readers, I hope it's also the last publication.  that dates back to # must set some kind of record for a First publication in English. To add to the novelty, the book is brought out by Southern University Press. Science Fiction obviously is attracting serious academic consideration now -- provided it is ancient enough for the professional students of the genre to have mulled it over and reached some kind of decision on it. The title of the work is Two Planets. By Kurt Lasswitz, it is a novel that had a strong influence on the members of the German Rocket Society. To some extent it may have accelerated the beginning of the space program. The price is high -- S # for less than # pages of the original novel -- but probably within the reach of enough completist collectors and libraries to acceptable. In fact, if this really were a full translation of Lasswitz's two-volume work the rather high price certainly would be justiFied. Unfortunately, this is not a full translation of Auf zwei Planeten. Around #, Erich Lasswitz made an abridgement of his father's work. Now, the curtailed version has been used for the translation by Hans Rudnick, with some additions from the original -- wherever the translator decided the material was "'pertinent to today's achievements -- " which means that the reader has no way of checking it for errors in predictions or science, or of looking back to Find developments in our future that were pertinent or wrong in the book. The writing in the original seemed fairly good. That may be because the German language seldom reads as easily and quickly as English or because I was much less critical when the book was lent to me in #. The English version seems duller -- the stilted prose makes the preachiness stand out more strongly. I suspect this is due to a somewhat too close translation if not to a lack of literary fluency on the part of the translator. Still, despite almost # years of scientiFic advances, the plot is still reasonably plausible. And eyen though it is far more a morality novel -- or a philosophical one -- the search for Utopia does not keep it from being far better in its plotting and development than much current writing. It has a good basic situation -- men discover that the Martians have a base on Earth, after which the Martians slowly take over Earth, initially with the kindest motives. But power corrupts and Earth has to Fight Mars before establishing a modus vivendi at the end. Some of the political IF scenes are badly marred by extreme anti-British prejudice, a trend common in German fiction after Disraeli's quenching of some of Bismark's ambitions. If you can stand the price you might find the book fascinatingreading it is like traveling through time to learn the attitudes of the past. However, I cannot avoid thinking that the present version shows a marked lack of judgment on the part of the translator and publisher. Instead of being Lasswitz, this is the bowdlerization of his book -- a cropped # book that has now been stuffed with odd bits to make it fit #. That is bad scholarship. It is unfair to readers who might want to possess the original in English -- and grossly unfair to Lasswitz, who can stand -- or fall -- on his own. N othing can be proved about the development of science fiction from only two books, of course. If anything, the two examples seem simply to indicate that good work is more a matter of the caliber of the writers interested in the field than of the time in which they write. If so, perhaps we should pay more attention to the twists and turnings of interest and the evolution in the talents of our authors. One of the most interesting cases in this respect is Philip Jose Farmer. In almost a quarter of a century, he has tackled more different types and levels of science fiction than anyone else I can remember.' He has been a master of the fresh idea, the straight adventure and the utterly wacky -- but convincing. He has ridden a host of hobbies in his work. And as the years have gone by, he has become one of our most prolific authors. Like most of us, he has had a few books that were less than successes, but in general his work has scored well. His second novel in the "Riverworld" series is now in print. The Fabulous Riverboat (Putnam, #), originally serialized in IF, has been expanded into a longer novel. This time we are following Mark Twain, revived in company with all people who have died on Earth. On a strange planet, where all life clings to the banks of a river that gone back to his old interest, the river steamer. The story line deals with Mark Twain's building of a riverboat that will go down the river to find the beings who are responsible for Riverworld and for humanity's resurrection. Less attention is paid to those beings in this volume than in the first of the series. But in some ways this is a stronger novel. Twain's efforts before he achieves his boat, the politics that cannot be avoided, the societies and cultures that have developed along the river give epth to the story -- the triumphs and defeats are marvelously real. The events in the book have an inevitablity -- yet it is a delight to discover each happening as Farmer tells it. Like the previous Riverworld book, this is a major piece of fiction. The next novel in the series will bring Burton and Twain together in a search down the river. I look forward to it. The latest of Farmer's works to be published is wildly different. This is Farmer pursuing one of his private delights to its ultimate end. He has been busily working to prove the reality of a number of supposedly fictitious -- and fabulous -- characters and to trace their lives beyond the limits of the fiction in which they were involved. Timers Last Gift, by Philip Jose' Farmer (Ballantine, #), is superficially a time-travel story dealing with the distant past and our primitive ancestors. But in reality, it's a what-ever-became-of... After a number of failures at time travel a final attempt is made. But now the crew includes a mystery member who seems to have bought and forced his way in. Yet, when the time barrel lands thousands of years in the past the rest of the crew is dismayed to find that he not only assumes leadership but that they let him do so. Gribardsun also seems quick to assume practical leadership of the primitives they meet and his ability to survive as they do is remarkable. There is also an odd romance and a fresh handling of the time paradox -- but enough. Best if you figure things out for yourself. It's part of the fun. In fact, the whole book is fun. I have only one. quibble with Farmer. No, Phil, you can't get rid of Gribardsun that way. Sure, the first time the similarity prevented the time barrel's going back to where he had been. But cells replace themselves -- never completely in our short lives, of course, but continually. Over the course of millennia, this would mean that no molecule of his body was the same at the beginning of his trip. There would be no conflict -- no two things appearing at the same time. Gribardsun would go on, perhaps out to the stars, perhaps forever. And that's a quibble readers will have to buy the book to understand. writer who has always fasIF cinated me. He's an honest-to-God scientist of the top echelon, whom no one should expect to write about anything other than abstract mathematics. Every time I read of some major new theory in stellar formation or behavior, or about a postulate regarding the nature of the universe, Fred Hoyle seems to be given credit for much of the mathematical theory behind it. He's familiar with it long before Isaac Asimov writes a book about it -- which is known as being a pioneer. When he wrote a book of science fiction, I bought it only but of curiosity. I'd seen other attempts by top-flight scientists to do novels and I had grave doubts. But The Black Cloud was a superb piece of science fiction. It had the quietly effective style of a good English novelist and might have been the mature work of a topflight writer. Then he did several other books that proved his ability. But now we have Rockets in Ursa Major, by Fred Hoyle and Geoffrey Hoyle (Fawcett, #). Okay, it carries a bit of warning. Geoffrey is Fred Hoyle's son, working in television, and the novel is "based on the play of that title by Fred Hoyle." The credit line suggested this was a reworked television thing. But Hoyle had done other television work and had converted it into a good suspense book. Not this time. The basic gimmick isn't too bad. Earth has sent ships to the stars and they have simply vanished. Now, much too late, one comes back -- but there is no crew and a message scrawled inside warns that if this ship returns mankind will be in deadly peril. People have to find out what the peril is. But no, don't worry, gentle reader. Comes a ship with aliens (human enough to carry on romance with Earthmen) who tell all. They are good guys. Out there are bad guys who want to subjugate Earth. But the good guys will save us all. And from there on -- ho-hum. You've seen it all before, but much better. Big battles in space where the hero (Earthman) must show his value by fixing a short in the antenna. He fails, which is the mark of his heroism. The battles are pretty bad, though they may be the best thing in the book. The shock really comes from the writing. From his past performance we can take it for granted that Fred Hoyle writes damned well. But this material is sad-sack writing made worse by an attempt to give it emotional punch by sticking an adverb after every verb. Consider: Hero had just told the ship commander that since the radio won't work to identify the ship, it will have to land through a barrage of almost certainly deadly missiles. He finishes thus: " 'Yes,' I said laughing. 'It's not your trip.'" Ha-ha. If.it is a simple statement someone makes it slyly. If a character is worried about danger, heshe says it enthusiastically. When all else fails, they say it to each other aloud. Sensible, that. I finished the book gagging. On a more pleasant note, I turn to Orn, by Piers Anthony (Avon, #i). This is somewhat of a sequel to Omnivore -- the same aliens are present, along with some of the characters of the earlier book. But the new novel can stand on its own and in many ways it is a better book. The basic situation is that a small crew is sent back into either the past or an alternate world similar to Earth but more primitive. There's a trio -- two men and a girl, with a fairly complicated and interesting problem laid out for her -- she must resolve the conflict between her emotional and her intellectual responses to the two men. The real difficulty involving all three seems to be that they cannot be sure whether the locus of action is Earth of the past or a good facsimile. They have to determine the answer to gain any hope of survival. Whichever it is -- it's a world in upheaval and the trio is caught in the savagery of this. The characters also discover dinosaurs during a period in evolution when Earth's dinosaurs must have been extinct -- or must they? There are some good descriptions of the behavior of the dinosaurs, too. Anthony has obviously done his homework here. He has avoided the usual mistaken cliches about the ancient saurians. A highlight of the book is a duel between a scientist and a tyrannosaurus. The man loses his weapon early in the proceedings and it is man against saurian as nature made them. A good scene honestly resolved. There's also some fine work on the girl's brave, warm, and somehow pitiful attempt to save the egg of a strange bird. The cooperation between bird and human is told effectively and makes a gripping and effective part of the story. But the real interest of the book centers on Orn, the odd bird whose story this is. He represents a strange byroad of evolution, a race that developed racial memory in place of intelligence. I found this the most enjoyable book by Anthony I've yet read.  IF Blind -- yet she could see him across the light-years! I T here was an occasional odd clicking noise in his oxygen mask. Nothing serious, perhaps, but to a planetary surface scout any anomaly in the functioning of equipment had to be disquieting. The masks were not supposed to fail. Still, Bronson Bell saw no cause for actual worry. While the atmosphere of Aldebaran IV was deficient in oxygen, its density and the bitter cold of the mountains in late afternoon made it seem northis "air" could be breathed. At least for a time.  More of a threat was the fact that he did not have the force pistol with him. If he met something too large for the one-shot specimen gun he would be in real trouble without the force pistol. But since it was one of the few pieces of equipment that was really heavy -- and its battery and cable would have taken up too much weight and space in the specimen cart -- he had deliberately left it at base camp. After all, he had been here three months without encountering any animal larger than a lapdog. Why sweat over a dinosaur-swatter, then? A Buck Rogers type blaster, if such a thing existed, yes. A quarter of a ton of bulky, rarely used hardware, no. Bell -- called "Bronze" by the few who could bear to look upon his outrageous ugliness -- swept his gaze over the surrounding peaks, jagged and furred with deepgreen alien vegetation. The terrain sloped sharply to the west, where his base camplay. Even without supplementary oxygen, surely the return would be manageable. Tough, maybe, but he had handled worse. He tried to distract himself from the clicking noise by impressing the scenery on his memory for later description to Sylvia Chayams. He smiled and glanced at his watch. In fifty-two and a quarter hours he would hear her call on the transwave and would make his formal report. It would do no harm if the report were vivid as well as formal for the benefit of his beautiful blind date -- actually blind, poor lovely. Sylvia's image faded from his mind as an animal hardly as large as a mouse hopped along the ground a dozen meters ahead, sporting a ridiculously long tail and a relatively oversized chest. Bronze studied it a monient, chose a tiny hypodart from the selection in his belt pouch, dropped it into the breech of the fragile specimen rifle and brought the mouseling down with a practiced snap shot. The creature chittered angrily, plucked at the tiny needle in its side, then slumped helplessly to the ground. Bronze picked it up carefully with gloved fingers, and his lumpy face behind the breathing mask broke mto a smile as he noted the comically worried eyes of the little beast. "Take it easy, little fella," he said. "You'll wake up tomorrow without even a hangover." As the anesthetic took effect, the little animal's eyes closed. The big gentle-handed man eased the limp body into a plastic cylinder of the right size, carefully tucked in the disproportionately long IF tail, clicked home the tube's perforated lid. As he moved back up the trail to his light two-wheeled specimen cart, Bronze hummed a snatch of dance music in deep, resonant tones that set his oxygen mask vibrating. The tune was one that had been played by the orchestra in Houston three months ago and fifty-three light-years away. For a moment Sylvia Chayams was again in his arms. B ronze thought of that dance frequently. It was not often with him in public -- and Sylvia was impossibly beautiful. Long slender legs, firm but womanly hips, a trim waist, high and perfectly formed breasts, a cascade of warm brown hair, a cameo face adorned by huge blue eyes with abundant dark lashes set under straight brows. What a pity those lovely eyes were blind. But if she were able to see she would never have looked at him. His broken lumpy features were overlaid with puckered, indelibly blackened scars -- mementoes of a quarry explosion. That night of dinner and dancing had been both a delight and a torture. Delight because Sylvia, radiant, had moved in his arms like a strain of the music itself. Torture because of his own feelings. He had wanted desperately to tell her how beautiful she was, to reach across the table and hold her fingers in his blunt hard hand. But such things were among the few Bronson Bell would not dare. Not with any girl. Least of all Sylvia. He could not take advantage of her blindness, knowing that he was the ugliest man she might ever meet. His conversation had been confined to descriptions of the Starfire Club and the people in it. At that he had been fluent and she had listened eagerly. When he had wanted to say anything more personal -- or when she had asked him about himself -- his words had become short and gruff. When he had said goodbye to her at the door of her apartment she had apologized. "I hope it wasn't too tiresome -- taking out a sightless girl?" "That doesn't matter." She had slipped away from him then. The kiss he had almost offered had become impossible. She had replied with her first trace of coolness, "It matters a great deal to me." He had been able to think of nothing at all to say to that, although he had thought of a thousand things since. But now he was hearing her voice every four days on the transwave, fiftythree light-years away at her Explorers' Monitor and Control Console in Houston, Texas. held one of the most responsible program for the biological exploration of the cosmos. In addition to a mind that had command of a halfdozen disciplines of twenty-second century science, her miraculously acute hearing was a priceless asset in dealing with the whisperings of scouts' reports amid the thunders ing stars -- and her slender fingers could play the console's myraid controls with unmatched deftness and surety. For the hundredth time Bronze wondered if Sylvia had been assigned to him or had deliberately chosen to monitor his exploration mission among the dozen or so that any one operative could carry. However it might be, he was grateful for the luck that brought him -- precisely every fourth day at local sunset -- Sylvia's clear voice saying, "Houston Control calling Bell, Aldebaran IV. Chayams here. Come in. Bell." And then less formally, "Hello, Bronze. Silver here. How was it?" T he going was tricky here, requiring lowering the cart down a jumble of rocks and steep bluffs, one or two of which were fifteenor twenty meters high. Inching over the lip of one of these after letting the cart down on a line, he almost put his hand on the animal. Although obviously a worm, it was somewhat larger than the mouselike specimen he had shot with a dart. He had never seen anything like it before. It moved sluggishly as worms do, and its body was covered with a gray pitted shag like the bleached bark of an old birch. He gathered it up in a gloved hand and prepared to continue his downward climb when the thing elongated its body and writhed violently. The head end struck his wrist where his exertions had pulled an inch of sleeve out of his gauntlet and he felt a pinprick on the bared flesh. As he stuffed the worm into a zippered pocket and reached with his free hand for an antiseptic swab he carried in his shirt -- the planet suddenly lurched and swirled like smoke about him. Hurriedly he flung himself down on a narrow ledge, his feet hanging over a ten-meter drop. The ground was tilting and he suddenly found himself clinging to a ceiling of stones, gazing down a long drop to an empty sky. Illogically he grasped knobs of rock at his sides IF and held them with a force that made his fingers ache. He closed his eyes and waited for the effect of the venom to wear off. When he felt the planet tip to horizontal again he opened his eyes carefully, only to find that the colors of everything he saw were reversed. The dark-green forests had become wine-red, the sky had taken on a yellow-orange tinge and his khaki shirt and trousers were a nauseating dirty green. He waited again for a while, then carefully completed his climb down the escarpment to stand, panting, beside his laden specimen cart. The exertion of the descent apparently had speeded his return to normal. Surfaces were resuming their customary hues and the dizziness had passed. He counted his pulse and found it slightly slowed. He gave himself a mild stimulant by injection and examined the bitten spot on his wrist. That Bronze-and-Siver bit had come about when they had exchanged names during the date. Bronze grinned at it now and regarded his cart, too heavily loaded for its fragile wheels and flimsy body. Every item an explorer scout used had to save the ultimate gram of weight since it had to be brought down out of orbit from the roving mother ship. Darwin -- and returned to the Darwin eventually -- by rockets burning precious reaction mass. The ship's trans-light drive was much too massive and too expensively triggered with tritium to use for landing scouts. For that matter, even the Darwin could not afford to carry the echo-modulated transwave communicator -- fueled at astronomical cost by the same tritium -- that punched the standing transwave across the lightyears. Science had indeed broken the light-speed barrier, but nothing, apparently, could break the economic laws that demanded a huge expenditure of money for a corresponding expenditure of energy. Money and energy were two names for the same thing -- hence only kilometers of planetary surface and communications only through Houston. Bronze checked his specimens. These same economic laws made ridiculous any attempt at interstellar mining, commerce of even transport of objects. Only knowledge, pouring back to Earth along the standing transwave, was worth the cost. And the most valuable knowledge was locked in the cells of alien protoplasm which, like its counterparts on Earth, was capable of infinite variation in response to challenges of alien environment. In the skin, glands or intestines of the longtailed mouse-thing he had just captured might lie the cure for cancer, an antidote for heroin addiction, a longevity drug -- or something that might restore sight to Sylvia's eyes. H e tested the bindings on the cart and stood for a moment with the shafts in his hands, drinking in the beauty of the rugged scenery around him. If he could not restore her sight he could at least make the scene live for her -- describe the line of midnight blue at the horizon, the smell of unfamiliar resins from the nearly black foliage of the trees, the chirps, whistles and deeptoned buzzings of the small wildlife, the touch of icy crystal water from melting snows untouched by the soot of chimneys, the fragrance of carpets of tiny blood-red flowers and even the tang of the berries and bitter roots he had cautiously nibbled. Soon he would have to prepare and eat his own prosaic evening meal and he wanted to be at Camp One by nightfall. The following day he would have an easy trek from Camp One to base, which would leave him time to arrange his specimens for identification, classification and, if new in any respect, storage in the memory banks of the giant computers at Houston Control. His portable micro-bio analyzer would automatically transmit the structure of the most complex molecules to Houston for later study and attempts at synthesis. Only those substances that could not readily be synthesized would call for the transport aboard the Darwin of the plant or animal that'contained them. The other specimens would be disposed of or set free again. He checked his rough map for landmarks and started down the flank of the mountain between the shafts of his cart, humming his snatch of dance music and planning things to say to Sylvia, knowing that they would not be said as planned. Seemingly nothing could prevent his being gauche when the talk approached the banalities normal between a man and a woman. His humming stopped as the valve supplying a trickle of supplementary oxygen to his face mask again clicked and this time cut off the flow for an instant. He took off the mask and examined the valve while breathing the thin perfume of the ambient atmosphere. Nothing was obviously wrong. At the base he had tools to take the valve apart, but base camp was twelve hours' march IF from here. If the valve failed entirely he would be reduced to a crawl. He resumed the mask and went on, the tune temporarily forgotten in favor of calculations of the time required to reach base by his reporting hour if he were obliged to cut his pace. If necessary he could travel all night, since he was not particularly tired. That would certainly be better than risking the automatic rescue mission by the Darwin that would follow his failure to answer Sylvia's call. The reaction of Admiral Beane to such an astronomically expensive waste would not bear thinking about. He was three hundred meters above Camp One, only three kilometers by trail from it and the oxygen valve giving no trouble, when he found the worm. The place bore a small circle of pinpricks surrounded by a red patch of irritated skin. He sucked at the punctures until a bit of blood oozed from them, spat on the ground, swabbed the wound, disinfected it and applied a circlet of sterile plaster. Then, with a long-handled wire clamp, he fished the worm carefully out of the zippered pocket and looked at it wryly. "I think you're going to have something interesting for the computers, my friend," he told it. pushing it into a cylinder of appropriate size and stowing it beside the recently captured mouse. II H e picked up the shafts of the cart and started toward a narrow ravine that crossed the plain ahead of him. By the time he reached it he had all but forgotten the bitten wrist. Humming his dance melody, he lowered the cart to the bottom of the steepsided declivity, scrambled down after it and tossed the coil of line attached to the cart up the opposite slope. He began to climb after the line and had nearly reached the top when he was in blackness and falling. When sight and sensation returned he was sprawled an arm's length from his cart. His left ankle was sending frantic pain signals -- alternate stabs of ice and fire. He unlaced the boot and pulled down the heavy sock to examine the injury. The ankle had already begun to swell and was suffusing with a brownish tinge of blood. Man, that looks nasty, he thought. Going to be rough making the base in time to call in. He wriggled his toes cautiously, vaguely remembering that if he could do so the ankle was not broken. He found he could move the toes, but the cost in pain discouraged further testing. He laced the boot again, pulling the laces as tight as he dared. It wouldn't do to cut off the circulation, but the ankle must be immobilized. When he tried to stand he almost fell again. It took some further bracing of the boot with straps and a short-handled prospecting hammer before he was able to hobble. Then, to his dismay, he found that it would be impossible for him to haul the specimen cart out of the ravine. The bottom of the ravine was growing dark by the time he had made a cache of the vegetable specimens, improvised a makeshift knapsack and fashioned crutches from the shafts of the cart. He released the animal specimens, most of which scuttled off among the stones and brush. Only the long-tailed mouse seemed to have adopted its captor and showed a tendency to follow Bronze about. The big man leaned down to the creature and with gentle hands pointed its nose into some tall grass and tapped it on its little rump with a forefinger. "Run off, Mickey -- or Minnie, as the case may be. I'm not going to have time to play with you," he said. As the tiny creature took refuge in the clump of grass. Bronze shouldered his pack, slung the specimen rifle over it and started painfully up the side of the miniature valley. Halfway to the top the laboring valve of his breather mask gave one sharp, final click and refused to supply oxygen. ' the console of her transwave communicator, her padded earphones not yet in place. Her slender fingers drifted in aghostly dance over the dials and switches. A lilting dance tune went through her mind as she worked, and her fingers moved in unconscious rhythm with the music. What a wonderful evening that had been with the big spaceman. Bronze Bell. His calling her Silver had been a delightful touch, too. If she married him people would probably call her Silver Bell. Her mind shied away from the thought. This was going too fast! Still, the only flaw in the precious hours she had spent with him had come at the end when she had so clumsily mentioned her blindness. There had been an element of selfdefense in her doing so and she hated herself for it. She had known from the balance of his body and the slight tenseness of the fingers that held her hand that he had been about to kiss her and she had blurted her stupid remark to keep IF him from doing so. She wished fervently now that she had accepted the kiss. She was sure, somehow, that Bronze would not have been like the others, the succession of men who had dated her, telling her monotonously that she was beautiful, then groping with thick fingers at the buttons of her blouse or the zipper of her skirt. Like the slob who had insisted on taking her to a movie -- a movie, of all things! -- and, with his arm around her shoulders and one hand fingering the under-curve of her breast, had handled himself with the other. He had thought that because she was blind she could not tell what he was doing. Ugh! Bronze was not like that. For the first time she had felt like a normal girl on a normal date. His hand on her back as they danced had felt cool and firm. Her head had fitted so comfortably in the hollow between his neck and shoulder as they moved about the floor and, though the floor had been crowded, he had protected her so easily and deftly that they had never come into contact with any of the other dancing couples. There were other things about him, too. What other man she had ever met had known how to make things vivid in her darkness? What was it he had said at last transwave contact, describing a velvet-petaled flower fifty-three lights from Houston?... a red like the taste of burnt orange peel... Sylvia was smiling to herself as Kate Hoggins clumped by on her canes on the way to her own console. "Hi, Sylvia. Dreaming about a spacer? Who's your contact this shift? Bell?" Sylvia's smile became a friendly grin. Kate always asked questions in groups of three. "Yes to your first question," she said. "I was dreaming -- sort of. About the contact, it's Hashimoto's report from Aldebaran II tonight. Bell's not due to report in until -- " Sylvia's fingers strayed briefly to a clock set in her console and touched the exposed hands -- "twenty-three hours, thirteen minutes from now." "Got him timed to the minute, hey? A little bird told me Bell took you to the Starfire Club the last time he was on leave, right? Did you have a good time?" "Wonderful." "You like to dance, don't you? Did you dance? How was he as a dancer?" Kate's voice changed to a wistful note. "I'd give my soul to be able to dance again!" Sylvia frowned. Kate was inviting a break in their unvoiced rule against mutual commiseration and admission of handicaps. "At least you can enjoy a show with your date and see what he looks like." "Yeah. There is that." Kate dropped her hand lightly on Sylvia's shoulder, then hobbled to a place in the line pf consoles. Sylvia smiled after her. Like most blind persons she did not like to be touched, but she had come to expect -- and not not mind -- Kate's friendly fingers. Sylvia checked the clock again, pulled the phones over her ears, delicately reset a dial and began her evening's stint. "Houston Control calling Hashimoto, Aldebaran II. Chayams here. Houston Control calling Hashimoto, Aldebaran II. Chayams here. Come in. Hash. Over." B ronze struggled to the lip of the ravine, his breather mask dangling uselessly on his chest. The shortage of oxygen, the exertion of the climb, the agony of the twisted ankle -- these combined to pour trickles of sweat down his forehead and into his eyes. He dashed away perspiration with a forefinger and sourly looked at the oxygen mask. The fall had probably damaged it beyond repair. He put it to his face and inhaled strongly. Nothing came from it but a slight odor of plastic and oil. He tapped the valve lightly. Something cracked and the canister exhausted its contents in one hissing burst, leaving a thin frost on the inside of the mask. That was it. No oxygen. How long could a man live on this planet without supplementary oxygen? Quite a while if he didn't exert himself. Not very long if he did. The planet's animals were all oxygen breathers. But they had disproportionately large lungs and their respiration rate was more rapid than that of Earthly animals. He would have to increase his own breathing rate. And rest more frequently than even his damaged ankle demanded. Instead of ten or twelve hours it would take him all day and all night to make base camp. He checked his watch and the lowering sun and resumed his slow, painful progress. Two hours later he estimated that he had made only two-and-ahalf kilometers. The local sun was already touching the horizon. The pain in his ankle had settled to an enormous, hammering throb. He paused on a slight rise, panting rapidly and heavily, and looked about him. The reason might have been the advancing twilight, but the landmarks looked oddly unfamiliar. He set down his pack and balanced on one crutch while he IF rummaged for his map. It was not in the pack. Neither was his compass. He had probably left both in the specimen cart back in the ravine. The compass was the lesser loss as the planet's magnetic field was weak and variable, but the lack of his map was serious. He looked about him carefully, trying to recognize some landmark as it might appear from an unfamiliar angle. The sun's disk was half below the horizon now and the long, brownish shadows emphasized the irregularities of the terrain. Directly ahead loomed a jumble of rocks, a formation he could not recall from the outward trip. His damaged ankle would force him to skirt that obstacle. But should he go north of it -- or south? No sense bothering with Camp One now. He had no time to rest. All he could be sure of was that base camp lay generally westward. Perhaps tlie landmarks would become more easily recognizable ' as he approached it. With the sun below the horizon it would be difficult for him to be sure of continued progress westward, however, and this planet had no moon. On the plus side was the fact that fifty-three light-years made little difference in the familiar constellations. But he would have to remember that because of the planet's orientation, Formalhaut was its pole star. Suddenly the effort to recall which of the constellations, therefore, would rise east and set west or vice versa made his head whirl. Painfully he reshouldered his pack and started toward the fading glow of sunset, angling south of the jumble of rock ahead. As he did so a deep, coughing rumble like the grunt of a hunting lion came faintly to his ears. Bronze stood motionless for a moment, then resolutely reminded himself that a loud or deep-toned noise did not necessarily mean a large animal. There were Louisiana bullfrogs whose deepthroated roar could be heard for miles. He wondered if he could describe to Silver what he had just heard in terms of bullfrogs and decided that he could not. There it was again! The rumbling sound tensed the muscles of his back and sent cold thrills racing along his nerves. It did not help to remind himself that so far no large predators had been found on the planet. He unslung his rifle and, while some dim light remained, loaded it with the most powerful anesthetic needle he could find in his stock. If the animal turned out to be as large and hostile as it sounded he might never make it to base camp at all. Thinking of base camp and of Silver's low, sweet voice detaching itself from the crackling thunder of the stars, he strained his eyes to check the remaining hours until report time. The alien beast grunted again, closer, and Bronze noted that a light breeze was blowing in his direction from the rocks. Panting his laboring lungs full of the unsatisfying air, he resumed his tottering march westward. her headset and sat back in her chair, gently massaging the muscles of her neck. She replayed the last few inches of Hashimoto's tape to make sure of the quality and recording level. But she was thinking not of Hash and his amusing, deliberately JapaneseEnglish descriptions of the finds of his trip, but of Bronze Bell. She touched the dial of her console clock. Sixteen hours and four minutes and she would begin calling Bronze. Her shift was over. She checked the almost inaudible hum of the standing transwave, which was never allowed to die, and shut down the rest of her board. She would go to her apartment, bathe, dial her favorite meal from the autochef. Thank heaven for that warm, kitchen-smelling machine which made it possible for her to eat at home without having someone in to prepare and serve her meals! At the Starfire Club, Bronze had not made the usual mistake of handing her the menu or attempting to read it to her. He had confidently ordered for her instead and his choice had been marvelous. Bland, aromatic quenelles in a thick sauce. Spicy bits of toast buttered with beef marrow that one was expected to eat with the fingers. Nothing that had to be cut with knife and fork or pursued about a slippery plate. A delicious dessert of chirimoya ice cream. She had eaten with the same assurance as the sighted diners around her while listening to his deep velvety voice commenting on the club and the other diners without seeming to describe them, but giving her, nevertheless, a sharp picture of the scene. Some of the women at Control had commented in her hearing on Bell's astonishing ugliness, but this big, gentle and thoughtful man would never be ugly to her. God protect him and bring him home safe from his strange and dangerous job. Suddenly she had a vision such as only the blind can know, A huge, loathsome beast, rough-furred, long-fanged, with enormous eyes. Its forelimbs were armed with footlong, curving talons and It scurIF ried through a dim purple light with terrifying and sure-footed agility. Then the image vanished. Sylvia shook herself lightly, retrieved her purse from a drawer and left the Center, softly and somewhat tremulously humming a snatch of dance tune as though it had some mystic but uncertain power to protect Bronze. Ill T he beast was angling outward from the jumble of rocks on Bronze's left in a path evidently intended to intercept him. He could hear its deep booming grunts coming closer. Night had fallen, but the atmospheric glow and the light of the stars made it possible for him to see obstacles in his path and outlined the hill against the faintly luminous horizon. What was the size of the animal? It was obviously stalking him, so it must be large enough to have confidence in its own powers. Ignoring the pain, which was now lancing up his leg and left side. Bronze forced a slight increase in his hobbling pace. His stalker had miscalculated the interception point -- Bronze heard the beast some hundred meters behind him, as well as he could judge the distance. He wished he could hold the specimen rifle in his hands, but he could not manage both rifle and crutches. Still more he wished that he could see the thing -- form some idea of its size and appearance. It might be some harmless herbivore following him out of simple animal curiosity. His imagination insisted, however, that the thing was a predator and considered him prey. He remembered that in rummaging for the forgotten map he had found a couple of firelighters in his pack. One of these might provide enough light as it burned to make the creature visible if it came closer -- perhaps enough to give him a reliable shot at it with the rifle. He took the time to find and hand one of the firelighters at his belt, then resumed his march, resolved not to attempt a showdown with the beast unless and until it came too close for safety. The exertion of hoisting the pack to his back increased his already frantic breathing rate and for a moment he felt a return of the dizziness that had preceded his tumble in the ravine. The sensation passed quickly but left him uncertain of his direction. The stars did not look as they had a minute ago -- or had it been an hour? Or two? Was that Scorpio off there to the right? And if so, what was it doing there? He puzzled over it. but the problem seemed insoluble. He was about to shrug it off -- then brought himself up short. "Wait a sec. Bronze, my friend," he told himself out loud. "You can't just laugh this off. This is serious. Anosh -- anoxia -- that's what's making you so offhand about this. Take a deep breath." He took a dozen in rapid succession, straining his lungs to their utmost capacity. Then he stood still and studied the stars until he was correctly oriented again. He heard the coughing roar close behind him. The lumbering stalker had come perceptibly nearer. Bronze hurried on. The muscles of his chest and abdomen were aching from the unaccustomed strain of rapid and continued deep breathing. And still he was not getting enough oxygen. If only he could keep ahead of the brute until dawn, being a nocturnal hunter maybe it would abandon the chase. He almost made it to the first glow of daylight, but an incautious swing of his improvised crutches tangled in some weeds and Bronze came crashing to the ground in a blaze of agony. Behind him the hunter increased its pace. B ronze could actually hear the animal's padded footfalls before he found the firelighter at his belt and ignited it. The sight of the beast paralyzed him for a moment, then he grabbed the rifle and swung it in the thing's direction. Larger than a terrestrial buffalo, it was feline in general appearance. A shaggy mane about the shoulders increased massive aspect of a huge chest and upper body. The face was hideously ugly. Worse than my own. Bronze thought fleetingly. He raised the rifle and in the uncertain light of the sputtering flare drew a bead on the neck -- fired. As he did so the beast lowered its head, began a charge. The dart lodged in its wet, tenderlooking muzzle. It emitted such a shriek of pain and fury that Bronze cowered. The creature halted, pawed ineffectually at the dart, looked straight into its tormentor's eyes across the dying flare. Then it began a deliberate advance much more menacing than any wild charge. With fingers made stiff and clumsy by hours of gripping the improvised crutches. Bronze attempted to reload. The needle cracked in the chamber and the gun was hopelessly jammed. Meanwhile the beast continued to move steadily forward. Balanced on one leg. Bronze IF raised the rifle by the barrel for a last-ditch and certainly ineffectual defense. The monster was within leaping distance when the anesthetic took partial effect. It collapsed. Bronze looked down at it. It was panting hugely and its eyes still followed his every movement. The semi-paralysis obviously would not last long. The beast was much too big to be felled for long by just one of Bronze's charges. He looked about, the sweat cooling on his body. Not a stone or stick in sightnothing he could use to finish the thing off. The rifle and the crutches were too light for the job. "Something tells me, my pretty," Bronze said aloud, "that I'd better put some distance between us before that shot wears off." He chose direction by the stars, hobbled away. The giant's clouded eyes still followed him. countably tense. She had slept badly, disturbed by vague dreams of undefined disaster. Kate Hoggins' habitual pat on the shoulder made the blind girl jump nervously. She ran fingers over the board for the daily check but near the end could not remember if she had tested every switch and dial. In exasperation she checked again -- and a third time to be sure. The stubby hands of her glassless clock told her she still had twenty minutes before contact with Bronze. The moments dragged interminably as she waited. Bronze would be on time, of course. He always was. But what would she do if he were not? What if something had happened to him? She thrust ' that worry aside for another, less immediate. Would he call her again when he returned to Houston in six months? Probably not. One date with a blind girl was all you could expect of any man, however charitable. Meanwhile she could content herself by contact with him through the transwave twice a week. Perhaps it would be better if she didn't announce herself to his "Bronze" with that silly name of "Silver." Over the months it might come to seem embarrassingly intimate. She began her call a full minute ahead of schedule. "Houston Control calling Bell, Aldebaran IV. Chayams here. Come in. Bell. Houston Control calling Bell, Aldebaran IV. Chayams here. Come in. Bell. Houston Control..." D aylight on Aldebaran IV did not, as Bronze had hoped, discourage the giant catthing. He could see it in the distance, apparently fully recovered from the anesthetic, humping along with a determination as great as his own but not with the speed of Earth cats. Nor was it trying to hide its presence. He could hear its repeated rumbling roar. There was an angry quality, to the sound. Evidently the creature was one that held a grudge. The anesthetic had given Bronze only a kilometer's start and now he was tiring. He took a moment to lighten his pack, leaving a little pile of odds and ends on the trail behind him. When the cat came up to the discarded equipment it paused long enough to rip the stuff to shreds: During this exercise in malice Bronze gained a hundred meters and berated himself for not having dropped the things one at a time. He resumed his march, his lungs laboring painfully and his foot sending stabs of agony up his side clear to the neck with each step. The brute behind him had cut the lead to less than five hundred meters when Bronze saw the stream. It was both a welcome and a dismaying sight. It told him roughly where he was in relation to base camp. The stream ran well south of the camp and he now knew he would have to turn north. He glanced at his watch and estimated the probable distance he had covered. Assuming that he had passed Camp One in the night, it would be necessary for him to veer northwest. He noted the angle of the sun over his shoulder and headed for the stream, looking back anxiously to see if the cat would make directly for him across the angle rather than follow his footsteps. It turned directly toward him, ignoring the scent of his steps, and before Bronze had reached the water the cat had gained a hundred meters. Now the unpleasant part of having a river in front of him came into play. The morning was bitterly cold and Bronze was shivering in his clothes despite his exertions. From previous experience he knew that the stream came from a snowfield and would scarcely melt ice. Worse, a chilly breeze was blowing and it would multiply the effect of sodden clothing. If he could take off his shirt and trousers and somehow keep them dry during the crossing it would help -- but the beast was too close. Maybe the water would stop the thing or at least slow it up. In any case, nothing was to be gained by lingering on the bank. Stretching his tortured lungs to their limit, he plunged into the green water, armpit deep. F ording the stream was the worst ordeal yet. Slippery IF stones wrenched at his injured ankle. The cold drove the breath from his lungs and made it impossible to fill them fully again. Once he stepped into a hole and the swiftly moving water closed over his head. For a moment the idea flashed across his mind of breathing in the icy torrent and letting nature take its course, but he struggled to the surface, losing the now useless gun and one of his precious crutches in the process. He made it across, but barely. As he struggled up the opposite bank he cursed himself for having tried to cling to his pack. It now weighed more than he could lift in his weakened state. He squirmed out of the straps and let it lie on the ground, pouring a stream of water over his leg. It hardly seemed worth the trouble to get to his feet. Suddenly he saw a vivid mental image of Sylvia Chayams. She was looking at him with disdain, as if she did not like what she saw. "Bronze, my friend," he said to the air around him, "I don't think she'd appreciate it if you quit on her. The gal likes to dance, remember? She can't see how ugly you are -- " With infinite care he climbed to his feet, tucking the one remaining crutch under his left arm. He looked at his watch, still running. Time? Damn, it was time to make his report. Silver's voice would be riding the transwave now. Would she give him a couple of hours' leeway before calling the dollar rescue case because of a lousy sprained ankle, would she ever dance with him again? Neither of them would be able to hear the music for the snickering. Meanwhile her voice was calling. At the top of his lungs he roared an answer. An echo reached him from the other side of the stream. He looked back at the beast and grinned. "You ugly bastard. I hope you can't swim." The hope was quickly blasted. Already the creature was reaching its forepaws into the water, yowling angrily and inching in deeper until only its head and massive shoulders were visible. Then, with a grunt of fury, it launched itself into the current and began paddling. It was not a good swimmer. The current began to drag it downstream. Bronze turned upstream, heading for a low rock-covered hillock some distance to the north, dragging his pack. If he could get to those boulders maybe he would find some small enough to throw yet big enough to do damage. It was a chance. Bronze left the pack on the ground near the stream and wrenched himself toward the rocks, gasping his answers to Silver, telling her to wait -- keeping time with his gasps. Behind him, three hundred meters to the south, the cat monster climbed out of the stream, its shaggy fur clinging to its flanks. Instead of making directly for him it turned blindly upstream, sniffing for his scent. At last it turned north. When it found his pack. Bronze gained another hundred meters while the beast ripped everything to ribbons. Then it took up the trail again, inexorably. XX Chayams' voice was growing slightly hoarse. "Houston Control calling Bell, Aldebaran IV, Chayams here. Come in. Houston Control..."  wonder if he's hurt... calling Bell, Aldebaran IV. Chayams..." Or dead? God, please don't let him be dead... "Come in. Bell. Houston Control calling..." Maybe he's just forgotten his ' schedule. That's what it is. He's forgotten, the overgrown idiot.  wonder if I should call the starship? No, not yet. He'd kill me if it weren't a real emergency. But, damn him, why doesn't he answer? While the call was going out Sylvia's slim fingers were ghosting over the control panel, checking and rechecking. Everything was functioning. "Houston Control calling Bell..." A little crowd was gathering behind her, watching the panel for some external sign of Bronze's reply. No one spoke. One never spoke to a transwave operator when the phones were in place. "Houston Control..." Bronson Bell, if you've simply slept through your watch -- boy, am I going to give you a piece of my mind! Let it be that, God. He's just asleep. That has to be it, the big lummox! Houston Control calling B..." mock cost Bell heavily in effort. Nothing on it that he could lift or wrench loose would serve to keep the cat-beast at bay, much less cripple or kill it. But the hill had other advantages. From its summit he could see the mast of the transwave with the glittering little aluminum shack at its base. Bronze gave a hoarse cheer and began to scramble down the other side of the hill toward base camp. Only twenty minutes behind call time. You might make it. Bronze. In another half-hour. If the Grunting Wonder back there IF doesnt make a meal of you first... He was keeping quiet, but as if in reply the voice of the beast thundered from the rocks behind him. He threw himself forward and rolled down the slope. Soon Bronze was only a hundred and fifty meters from the shack. But the great shaggy animal was again nearly within leaping distance. Bronze faced it and threw a handful of gravel. It flinched, probably remembering the dart, but stood its ground, snarling. Bronze tore off his sodden shirt and threw it down. While the brute ripped the shirt to tatters its quarry made another thirty meters. The trousers went next, torn from his body without his trying to pull them over the boots. Then his underclothing. Each time the respite was shorter, the repulsive monster closer. At last, as Bronze stood naked save for his shoes, his improvised crutch snapped in two. He flung the pieces like lances and dropped to his hands and knees, scrambling painfully over the rocky soil. His knees bloody ribbons, his eyes fogged by a red film, his ears filled with the roaring of the pursuing beast. Bronze snatched open the door to the base shack and tumbled in. While the beast rasped its heavy claws at the doorframe and the flimsy walls shook. Bronze turned a petcock on the shack's oxygen tank and breathed the gas into his lungs in great starved gulps. He was instantly in a state of euphoria. Childish giggles escaped him as he switched on his transmitter and shouted, "Bell to Houston Control." Another giggle. Then: "Bronze to Silver. I love you, my Silver Bell!" The clearest thing to come to Houston over the whispering transwave, cutting through the thunder and hiss of the exploding stars, was the giggle. Sylvia was stunned. Bronze, the big... the... the mess, was not dead, not hurt, but simply unspeakably drunk! "Love me, do you? Well then, prove it, damn it. Report." On Alderbaran IV the shack shuddered under attack from without. Bronze wiped a bloody hand on the battery case of the force pistol and mumbled, "I'll tend to you later, kitty--" then turned to the set. "What do you mean, prove it?" he bellowed. "I got to the goddam phone, didn't I?" "Report," Sylvia snapped and two heavy tears rolled down her cheeks. She hated him -- the big, sloppy, drunken bastard! But her ridiculous heart was singing.  in the city of Ashur on the planet unconsciousness in a strange city The voice belonged to a Special on an unfamiliar planet, not knowAssignments Group attached to ing his name or identity, with holo the Stellar Commandos, an Earth caustic war raging around him. A military unit. It reached him voice in his head identified him as through a minute electronic transa Terran agent involved in Earth's fer link surgically implanted in struggle with the Destroyers, an his brain before he began his misoutlaw federation of planets once sion. The link not only enabled the colonized by Earth. The voice Group to reach him at any time and directed him to safety through see and hear through his senses. but also gave it life and death powers over him. The voice continued to brief him. His amnesia, caused by a concussion during the Destroyer raid on Onaris, was complicated by the fact that, before starting on his mission, he had been hyp no-conditioned to represent himself as a leading Onarian were known to be looking for. The voice in Brons head was acid-tongued but attractive female Group medical officer; and of tary member. Under the Group s direction Bron duly fell into the hands of the Destroyers and was taken aboard the enemy spacefleeTs flagship, commanded by the Dereceived him cordially, believing him to be Ander Haltern. Canas BronHalterns credentials and subjected him to a test. With the aid of the real Ander Hal ter ns coaching through the transfer link, Bron easily passed the test and was given restricted freedom of the ship by Cana. As Canas  guest Bron Hal tern witnessed -- from space -- the total destruction of Onaris by a "hellburner missile, whose arrival Cana had accurately anticipated. The event matched the Destroyers reputation for planetary destruction -- Cana, however, disclaimed all responsibility. The hellburner missiles always followed Destroyer raids and were of unknown origin, according to Cana, and this last one had undoubtedly been intended to kill Ander Haltern -- it had struck Onaris at exactly the spot where the Destroyers had seized Bron Haltern. To prove his innocence Cana invited BronHaltern, as a master syncretist and expert on the "patterns of chaos -- which Canas own scientists had used to compute the arrival of the hellburner -- to check all data available on the ship. BronHaltern did so and also used his freedom of the ship to compute the course of Canas fleet back to the Destroyers baseworld -- information Earth wanted and Bron transmitted to the Group via the transfer link. His activities, however, reawakened Daiquists suspicions and he was transferred from the flagship to another vessel, the Tantalus -- a former Terran laboratory ship long since captured by the Destroyers and now part of Canas fleet. Aboard the Tantalus Bron made a startling discovery -- the ships entire instrumentation had been exactly reversed: dials read from right to left, etc. Checking back, Bron also found that the Tantalus had once been commanded by General Ananias, who had abandoned her and presumably her crew in space. When he confronted Ananias with the information via the transfer link the latter tried to kill him. Jaycee saved Brons life. Under the coaching of the real Ander Haltern via the transfer link BronHaltern established himself as an expert on the patterns of chaos with Canas own expert, Tantalus. Studying the patterns , with Laaris, Bron learned that the Tantalus was doomed to destruction via the same agency that demolished Onaris -- a finding that tended to support Canas theory that some mysterious force in the universe was determined to kill Bron. Of more immediate concern to Bron, however, was his growing conviction that General Ananias had sold out to Cana. While the Destroyer fleet was making a subspace Jump homeward Bron succeeded in secretly launching IF Tantalus' hell burner torpedoes at what he believed to be the Destroyers baseworld. Subsequent events proved him wrong on all counts -- too late he tried to warn Cana, whose men beat him mercilessly. Bron came to on the planet he had doomed, to discover that Ananias had been rebroadcasting the supposedly secret transfer-link communications on Canas wavelength and that Cana now knew who Bron really was. The rebroadcasts actually helped Bron to convince Cana of the imminent arrival of the Tantalus hellburners in time for the latter to evacuate most of his men -- he had merely used the planet as a stopover base during raids. The hellburners arrived before the evacuation was completed -- the entire planetary system was destroyed and Cana lost heavily in men and materiel. Tantalus was demolished in the holocaust as predicted by the chaos patterns and Cana remained convinced of Brons value to him as a  chaos catalyst. He not only let Bron live but permitted him to try to manipulate chaos events to alter their patterns when these seemed to doom some of the remaining Destroyer ships. Brons success was partial but spectacularly unprecedented -- and when the patterns of chaos suddenly predicted the imminent arrival of an apparently invincible attacking alien fleet from outside the galaxy, Bron -- at Canas insistence -- was named to command the combined Terran and Destroyer forces summoned to repel it. X. moment." Ananias's voice "An advance party of about a hundred alien vessels is already within the confines of the Milky Way. This appears to be the spearhead of the main attack force still moving in from the void." "Didn't the advance party show up on chaos analysis?" "Yes, but we couldn't determine the significance of our readings. Some activity was apparent in the direction of the Space Dependencies, but we couldn't plot its position accurately -- we were working with too short a baseline. Now that we have access to the Destroyer chaos records we can correlate with a fair degree of accuracy." "Now is too late," said Bron. "It should have been done five years ago." "Agreed. You and Cana and I know that, but Terra couldn't be bothered to listen. How do you want to play this, Bron?" We must know more about their craft and their weapons. We need to experiment with tactics on a limited scale before we're forced into contact with their main fleet. Prepare six battle cruisers to make a direct attack on the smallest grouping of alien ships you can locate." "Why not use the whole fleet?" "Because any ship of ours that goes into that battle may notxome out again. I want the maximum amount of information from the minimum number of ships at risk. All data on weapons effectiveness, both positive and negative, are to be corded for analysis." "Engaged." Ananias cut transmission. Bron relaxed slightly and looked along the Skuas bridge, which had become his command post and had been virtually his home during the past thirty-six hours. All the communications posts were fully manned by the extrovert but nonetheless efficient Destroyer technicians. His assumption of Daiquist's former position had gone smoothly. Bron had the feeling that his somewhat unusual status as a master syncretist, plus his obvious familiarity with battle, command procedure, had already created around him something of a legend. Certainly he could have asked no more in the way of respect tough Destroyer shipmen. The Skua and a hastily regrouped assortment of seven Destroyer ships had left the comforting rimline of the extremities of the Milky Way and were now engaged in their own exploratory run, similar to the one being undertaken by General Ananias and the Commando fleet well within the Rim. Bron could feel the weight of a great loneliness -- it beset the mind as his ship carved deeply into the terrifying void between the great galactic clusters. The eight were on the trail of a lone alien straggler, which purely random chance had detected as a solitary, isolated pinpoint in the wastes of extragalactic space. The detectors had already located and confirmed the course of the alien and soon the screens were beginning to pull in the first indications of electronic contact. The weapons crews were busily setting up their missile programs, but Bron decided not to call for a chaos analysis of the outcome of the attack. He preferred to go into battle still full of the undimmed hope that an adverse analysis would have destroyed. The eight vessels all had a specific pattern of weapons to employ and the directive was simple -- after performing the allocated task they were to withdraw out of attack range and stand by for further orders. the screens, a trimmer, more acutely wicked craft than the one that had destroyed the Jubal. This craft was covered with faceted nodules that might have been IF weapon points or merely a peculiarity of the hull plating. As he watched the critical registers run toward battle-zero, Bron again sensed the quieting of the alien tongues in his head -- the hushed expectancy. The babble fell to a low moan, a tense anticipation. Anticipation of what? One does not anticipate defeat or victory with quiet expectation -- only the springing of a trap! Instantly he was on his feet and running toward the communications point, shouting with such urgency that all eyes turned to him. "Abort the attack! All ships abort the attack and drive clear. Crash emergency!" The image on the screens dropped out of focus as the Skua swung into a violent turn that almost broke her spine. The great ship fled in the tightest arc its gravitic compensators would allow it to follow without destroying the crew. Even so, a lack of compensation of several gravities subjected the men to a stress component many times that to which they were accustomed. But as the screens came back into focus, the sounds of complaint died immediately. Bron's outburst had been justified. The alien ship blew up. It split in one incredible second to form a fireball that became a raging quasi-stellar inferno and finally a quasi-star. The shipboard radiation detection systems screened warnings of impending breakdown of the biological protection screens. Then the mad sun collapsed and died, its energy consumed and dissipated in its short but fantastic life. Bron called in his companion ships. Not one had suffered serious damage. Their captains were grateful -- though still bewildered by the orders that had brought them out of the maw of a searing death. Another part of the Bron legend had been added to the Destroyer chronicles. B ron was unable to explain. He was having an increasingly difficult time hearing normal conversation above the rising level of angry goose-snarl and bicker the futile loss of the alien ship-weapon had evoked. When his head-noise finally quieted he called Commando Control. "Are you there, Jaycee?" On-line Bron. "Anything to report from your end?" They re having trouble with noise in the Antares receiver. Sounds like somethin boilin in a pot. They re Jilterin it out now, but it was bad a short while ago. That was quite a fireworks display you just had. "They used to serve a drink with a comparable effect in a little bar at the back of Europa Commando Base. Six shots and you woke three days later with radiation sickness instead of a hangover. I could do with a bottle right now." Jaycee began to laugh. Sounds like the old Bron memory might be returnin. "It is, in little unconnected bits. But most of what comes back Fd as soon not remember. And I still can't remember you. Should I?" That's classified information, Bron. I cant give you an answer. "Damn it, I demand an answer." "You're not getting one. While we're coupled on a mission, we're part of a psychologically matched team. We don't dare do anything to upset that, Bron -- if it goes out of balance the linkage becomes quite intolerable. Especially for you. "And for you, Jaycee?" I don't count. I have to solve my problems my own way. But you can tolerate me in your head for such long periods of time only because I supply somethin' your personality needs. You may be a warlord to Cana and the General Staff, but I know you're a Godlost louse and it's my job to make sure you never forget it. "Thanks for nothing. But you've given me something I'm going to work on. Did you get me any answers from Ander yet?" Hes in the viewing room feeding maths into the computer terminal like he was payin' the rent out of his own pocket. Do you want him on-line? "Not if he hasn't finished. Just add the tapes of that last alien encounter to the stuff he's already working through. Might give him something new." Are you on to somethin', Bron? "I have a feeling that the aliens aren't going to be defeated by conventional weapons. If they've studied our chaos patterns over the ages, they'll know all too well the limitations of our present arms technology. If they're the master technologists they seem to be, they'll already have made sure that their fleet is relatively immune to our diffract-meson and other particulate reactions. Yet we must have acquired something that's worrying them, I believe, or they wouldn't have moved so suddenly against us at this particular time." And you think you have a line on what our worry factor is? "All the evidence points to this -- it has something to do with chaos. They tried to stop Cana from acquiring chaos men. They tried to stop me on Onaris. They used a sort of chaos non-event weapon on the Jubal. It begins to look as if chaos itself holds the key to the battle. But how to fight a physical spacewar using a mathematical abstraction is something I don't begin to understand."l-How did it go?" "Diabolically, Bron. We lost all six ships to the weirdest space IF strategy I ever saw. The aliens rammed them." "They what?" "Rammed our ships in straight collision courses -- in one-for-one exchanges. Whichever way our ships turned, one of those damned aliens swooped on it and exploded. I'm worried, Bron. When we battle that fleet coming in from the void, we won't have the numbers to fight them on such a basis. And our weapons don't touch them at all." "You've met them in space before, on the Tantalus. Tell me about that time." "That was different. The Tantalus was on a deep-space exploratory voyage. We dropped out of subspace about nineteen parsecs out from the Rim to establish realspace bearings. To out astonishment we immediately picked up readings of a ship closeby. We know now that they must have been aliens using a chaos prediction on our drop-out point, but in those days chaos to us was scarcely more than a toy. The coincidence of another vessel's being so close to us after our casual drop-out seemed remarkable. We tried to make contact, but received no answer to our signals. Next the alien came straight at us on a crash course. There was an explosion or something -- I've never quite been able to remember what -- and I blacked out, probably for a long time. When I came around, the crew was dead and the whole ship seemed foreign and strange. It took me quite a while to accept that both the ship and I had undergone lateral inversion. At first I was convinced that it was purely a trick of eyesight. I don't know what killed the remainder of the crew, but it seemed to be some sort of shock." Ananias paused for Bron's reaction. Bron said nothing. Ananias went on. "I drifted for days. I had no crew to run the ship and not much of it would have functioned in any case. It took all my effort just to stay alive, patching a life-support system onto a rather inadequate emergency supply. Finally Cana's long-range detection system must have spotted the Tantalus -- they sent out a patrol to investigate. "Cana wanted the warning about the reality of the aliens conveyed to Terra in no uncertain terms. I agreed to take back his message. He had me put on a tramp ship at the freeport on Stere and I returned to Terra and told the story straight. It was interpreted as an elaborate lie to save my skin -- with the suggestion that I'd sold the Tantalus to the Destroyers. I was officially reprimanded -- but unofficially I had a few friends who took the warning seriously. One of them was you -- " "All right -- we'll go into that later. First let's see if we can wring some sense out of what we know about the aliens thus far," Bron cut in. "We've already seen them use four different modes of destructive or disruptive space attack -- the non-event destruction of the Jubal, the ramming of your six ships, the explosive destruction of the one I attacked, and the lateral-inversion shock on the Tantalus. None of these modes involved weapons as such -- the aliens may not have evolved any. They appear to rely on the use of their ships, kamikaze fashion, as destructive instruments. But all these modes involve materials and methods that belong to an order of science well beyond our present grasp of physics. Additionally, all four are completely different. Since the incidents were well separated in time and space it seems reasonable to suppose that we haven't yet seen the full spectrum of the enemy's destructive effects." "Would they employ variation for variation's sake?" asked Ananias. "Or do you suspect some other significance?" "I suspect deeper significance. experimenting with chaos analysis. I've already proved that if you can provide an effective substitute for a predicted event -- you can chejit the chaos prediction. But there's a limit to the range of substitute effects we can manufacture. I think they've analyzed this coming battle many times over and stacked the deck heavily in their favor, knowing we can't match them on their tactics. We don't have enough ships." "Which means we're damned from the start." "Not necessarily. There's a logical consequence to that line of reasoning that may be the piece missing from the puzzle." "I'm damned if I can see it," said Ananias. "But then I seldom could follow the deviations of your tortuous mind." Suppose you were playing a computerized war game. Having taken a sound theoretical beating, you would reconsider your tactics, evolve a new strategy, and submit your revised program for a re-run. Given enough imagination and sufficient computer time, you could ultimately evolve a technique that predicted a high probability of victory against any odds." "Agreed. But I don't see how it applies in this case." "Suppose the aliens played a war game on the coming battle, using chaos to analyze the results. Suppose they saw they would lose it, went back and tailored the embryo designs of their fleet. Then they reran and kept tailoring until they thought they had the right answers. Don't you see the logical inference?" "Frankly, no." "Then I'll tell you. It means that chaos predictions are not fixed and immutable. There must be parallel alternate tracks where the final resultant is dependent on some branching in the chain of causality. IF There are actual decision points that can change the entire structure of future history. Perhaps that's the role of a chaos catalyst. Perhaps he alone can break the predetermined web and shift the future to a new track." "My God, Bron! If you're right -- " "I have to be right, Ananias, because if I'm wrong there won't be much hope for Homo sapiens when that armada gets through." "How do you plan to make use of the idea?" "By inserting some of the Bron brand of chaos into the general situation to give us time to breathe. I want to try playing the system against itself. You've got a transfer link transceiver in your radioship?" "Yes, but I don't see -- " "Hook up the receiver to your mitters and have all ships lock on to that. On ther transfer link you'll find an alien signal. Antares is having trouble with it, so you must be able to receive it. When you're approaching a battle situation during which the aliens get tense, you'll find the signal quiets down. When they sound hushed and expectant -- worried -- that's the time to get out fast." "How will that help?" "Past performance tends to indicate that a percentage of the aliens will destroy themselves at that critical point. We can avoid some of the disasters by making use of this realtime feedback on when to quit. They'll probably catch on to the tactic soon enough -- but I think we'll have them worried for a while -- " The clangor of the battle alarm tore Bron from the hand-set and sent him racing for the screens. As yet nothing was visible, but the computer output terminal was angry with coordinates and course predictions of ships that seemed to occupy a mammoth arc in space. To judge from the activity, miany hundreds of alien ships were approaching from the void. A large number of them were exhibiting chaos shockfronts that foretold of ultra-violent entropic changes. Bron had a sudden change of mind. He ran from the bridge to the ship's chaos complex, calling for a forward scan of the patterns containing the Skuas own red shipline trace. The computation was hastily set and the long graph of chaos ripples that surrounded the ship's existence began to issue from the plotter. For a sweep extending several hours ahead, the red trace ran unwaveringly down the center of the chart, showing no deviations despite the turbulence of the patterns in the near continuum. Then, at a particular point, the red trace leaped to a maximum -- and fled immediately to zero. A startled murmur rose from the assembled technicians as the prediction of the end of their own existence was registered only a few hours away in time. Bron cut in curtly. "Run that scan again to the same point. As soon as you reach the falloff, reset and start again. Let me know as soon as you obtain a difference between two consecutive scans." H e became aware that Cana had entered the complex and was taking an acute interest in the proceedings. "What are you up to, Syncretist? Are you still trying to prove that the future doesn't necessarily have to happen?" "I submit there's a flaw in chaos theory and I'm determined to prove it." "With all those alien ships coming in you'll need a miracle more than a theory. You have about four hours to disprove the tenets of a complete science." "Chaos is neither complete nor science," said Bron. "Think about it. The aliens wouldn't have tried to stop me on Onaris if they had seriously believed I was going to fall four hours from this moment." Back on the bridge the screens were now showing myriad points of unresolved light -- the alien armada was crowding in from the void. A chill tension governed the actions of the crew -- even with the Commando fleet to back them, the defenders were hopelessly outnumbered. The further knowledge that they had no effective weapons superimposed on the tension a sort of dumb fatalism quieter than panic and strangely, not entirely devoid of hope. "Jaycee, get me Ander. Urgent." Vve got him on-line, Bron. I thought youd need him around about now. "Good girl. Ander -- I suspect there's a flaw in chaos theory. I'm suggesting that a future event established by chaos analysis doesn't necessarily have to happen. I submit that cause and effect may be made to diverge and that the initially recorded resultant may not in fact be the final one." Its part of Yohanns multi-field theory. The idea is well supported by mathematics but has never been verified. "I think I may have that verification. You've been going through the tapes, so you'll recall I cheated chaos a little by arranging a substitute explosion in lieu of the destruction of the Anne Marie. Was that not a divergence of the causal chain?" Only a slight deviation. Another ship, the Jubal, was destroyed instead. "Yes, but destroyed at a later point in time. What if in that borrowed time something in the situation had given rise to a new chain of causality? The new chain could not have existed had not the original one diverged." Bron. But there's no proof UnIF fortunately nothing happened to initiate a new chain in that borrowed time. "Oh, but it did, Ander. In that time I made the decision to ask you to check the tapes of the incident, and a direct consequence of my having done so is this present conversation -- and any actions I may take because of it. If the original chain had not diverged, this particular conversation could never have occurred." A silence ensued while Ander thought the situation through. Point conceded, Bron! The full implications are too big to be swallowed at one gulp, but I would say you have produced valid proof of a deliberate redirection of history. "That's all I wanted to know," said Bron. "I'm going to play that angle, if necessary, until the universe breaks up." He broke off as an excited chaos technician came up, waving a chartstrip at him. "She impossible, but 'ave 'appened. Shipline does no' go zero any more. Is what you call bloody magic! Is insane!" "Insane or not," said Bron, "it's the way things are going to be from now on. From now on I'm taking a hand in deciding what the resultant's going to be. But I'll tell you one thing, I doubt the universe will ever be the same again." You re not only a Godlost louse, you re a Godlost egotistical louse. Jaycee said bitchily deep inside his head. Cut loose like that again and Til tell you things about your mother that will make you wish youd been born from an egg-case. mission yet?" "About two minutes ago, Bron. We're currently raising a radio alert to make sure all fleetships lock on to the transmission and relay it for the captain's attention." "Good. Make sure the captains know how to use it. I've ordered the Destroyer fleet to lock on to the same frequency. Since there's only one signal, we'd better try to phase our attacks so that we don't have two in progress simultaneously. I'm gambling on the fact that the aliens may suspect how they're being anticipated. Use normal weaponry during the attacks in order to disguise out change of tactics." "Engaged, Bron. Do you want us to move straight in?" "As soon as you're ready. We're just mustering formation. Then we're going to move straight down the centerline and have a crack at anything that comes." "I'll say one thing for you," commented Ananias. "When it comes to backing hunches, you back yours in a big way." Bron broke the connection then called Cana on the shipboard communicator. The span of alien ships now swam large on the screens. "We're set to attack in about ten minutes. I'd be happier if you'd consent to board a corvette heading out of battle range." "Why?" asked Cana. "What had you in mind?" "We're going to try a technique that may upset the balance of chaos to a point where we can't rely on analysis for our answers. We've no means of telling whether this ship -- or any ship -- will survive the battle. I'd prefer to see you headed safely toward baseworld." "If we lose this battle," said Cana, "the aliens will come straight through anyway. There won't be any baseworld to be safe on. Thank you, but I'll stay aboard the #cwa." "As you wish. I merely thought I'd let you know the odds." "Bron, in the short time I've known you I've lost every certainty I ever had about life and the nature of the universe. You don't play the odds -- you bend them to fit the way you want to go. You're one of the most terrifying characters I've ever met." ril second that! said Jaycee archly. Lightly at first, then with an increasingly sonorous thunder, the mighty gravitic drives bit into the fabric of space and hurled their charges toward the alien horde. Ahead of the great ships, like a miniature fleet in itself, drove a wave of diffract-meson torpedoes, px)tential minature novae running like avid hounds before a hunt. The images on the screens lost their multiplicity and began to concentrate on narrower, more detailed fields as the Destroyer fleet flung itself straight at the unknown enemy. A chorus of alien voices rose in a complex wave inside Bron's head -- he detected patterns of rising alarm, of jubilation, of expectancy and fear.The speaker at his elbow repeated the diversity of sounds -- but though he had control of the speaker's volume, he had no such power to protect himself from the sounds within him. Then came the first contact. The abortive flare of diffract-meson warheads hazed the screens momentarily. When they cleared again it was to reveal three Destroyer ships concentrating on an alien pacemaker. The ships dived in a perfectly conventional attack maneuver and the alien signal fell to a hushed moan. At its ultimate atonal expression of expectancy the Destroyer ships pulled clear. For an instant nothing happened -- then the alien was engulfed by a flame that stripped its very atoms of cohesion and scattered an impossible bloom of unknown ionization broadly across deep space. IF I N Bron's head the alien voices sang their wrath large and venomously. He was not dismayed. He had already calculated a method of keeping their complaints within a tolerable range. With sure fingers on the console keys, he signaled the next sortie. Two Destroyer corvettes, displaying an admirable turn of speed, shot straight toward a configuration of three alien vessels on what was apparently a deliberate crash course. For once the aliens seemed to falter. Two made hasty course corrections as if to avoid the impudent aggressors. The third stuck doggedly to its route and Bron suspected that it was yet another gutted container. With a precision beautiful to watch the corvettes bore down mercilessly upon their prey. Though Bron had planned the maneuver, even he was caught by the suspense of the action, was seized with a sudden fear that the plan had misfired. Both craft approached their targets to incredibly narrow limits before they vanished abruptly from the sky. Only the voices of their captains still reciting tachyon coordinates on the subspace radio convinced him that all had gone as intended and that the corvettes had slipped safely into the subspace continuum. Disappointingly, the alien ships did not immediately perform their suicidal role. They clung for several seconds to their crash-evasion courses, apparently not convinced that their attackers had actually gone. One, however, had adopted a setting that took it too close to the undeviating "container" ship. They touched, and both ships broke apart with the same type of eventless energy reaction that had destroyed the Jubal. The trajectory of the remaining vessel took it lazily through the fringes of the crumbling flotsam before it, too, fell apart like tin held in too hot a flame. An almost complete silence now quelled the alien voices. It was untypical, warning Bron that some new factor was entering the battle. Immediately he had a suspicion that the fight was not destined to be one-sided. Vainly he hunted across the screens, trying to identify the threat. He saw the pattern too late to figure out its portent. Seven alien ships were involved, one centrally and the rest ranged in regular array in a vast ring a -- which included nearly half the compass of the Destroyer fleet. Superficially nothing was different about these vessels except that they kept station in this unusual formation with completely mathematical precision. The alien mutter fell below the audible threshold. Plainly some diabolical purpose lay behind the strange formation, whose function Bron found impossible to imagine. Unfortunately he did not have time to search for an answer. A Destroyer battle cruiser, reading no significance in the design, attempted to pass between the hubship and the exterior ships of the ring. The cruiser was vaporized instantly -- some unknown molecular lightning had flashed between the hub-ship and one of the ringships. The fact that this unlikely kilometers in length did not seem to attenuate its effects. Bron winced and closed his eyes as the major disaster struck his fleet. Fully thirty Destroyer vessels, unable to identify their particular danger or unable to maneuver in time, were caught by the grisly lightning. The blazing lines of fire cut a wide core through the Destroyer ranks. The alien expectancy noise now was up full. Above its tones Bron's orders were rapid and articulate. Ships on the fringps of the fleet were ordered to attack the alien ring-ships by approach from outside the ring's circumference. Two ships misjudged the relevant positions and were consumed. Then came a stroke of genius -- a cruiser's captain put an unmanned pinnace on a crash course with a ring-ship. The alien vessel exploded in a blaze of pure energy. Unbalanced, the remaining ring-ships discharged their bolts at each other as well as at the hub-ship. The disk within the ring became a blaze of energy of a type that should never have existed outside of the structure of an atom. Bron held his head as the ring collapsed. He strove to restrain a scream as wave after wave of alien reaction threatened to swamp his reason and drive the logic from his head. After a quarter of an hour the bitter outcry quieted. Bron began to receive reports of the cost of the operation to the Destroyer fleet. He had lost more than fifty ships and another twenty had taken precipitate jumps into subspace. A few might one day return. His confidence shaken and his forces dangerously depleted, Bron could only stare at the oncoming armada and wonder what the end was going to be. He felt lonely and inadequate. ONT think fm cry in for you, said Jaycee brutally. I always knew you were a congenital loser, Fve got Ander on-line, Hes not only a man -- he's got ideas, "I've got ideas, too. One day I'm going to beat hell out of you Jaycee. But I could use something constructive right now. What's the readout, Ander?" I was puzzled by that shell of a ship, Bron, I ran a chaos analysis back to its origin. It's contemporary with the Onaris hellburner -- in fact the whole fleet is. They've all been in space for seven hundred journey at sublight speed, "Hell -- are you sure?" IF There s no doubt of it. The theory accounts for the throw-away containers. According to my calculations better than ninety-nine percent of that fleet must be now consist of gutted provision ships. "That puts a slightly different complexion on things," said Bron. "At least Fm now only looking for a few dozen manned ships in the whole outfit." Probably fewer than that. Anyway, you have the great psychological advantage. "How do you compute that?" Self-evident. Meeting you is the climactic point of some seven life-form, whatever its psychology, could regard that point lightly. In fact, you re the reason the fleet exists! There s no evidence to show whether its builders are a race with exceptional longevity or whether theyve bred through many generations on the journey -- but either way, you re a super-legend. Would you dare to take on God Almighty? "Frankly, Fd cringe at the thought -- if I were convinced he existed." Precisely. But they are convinced that you exist. That's why I think the raid is defensive rather than offensive. "Defensive? You have to be joking, Ander." Not at all. Lacking .subspace access, not one of those ships can ever return. There's no point in their engaging in a destructive attack -- unless it's a sort of lastditch defense. No, Bron. This is a one-way suicide mission, hell-bent on trying to divert some aspect of chaos-predicted future history. ' "If that diversion includes the destruction of the Destroyer spaceforce, then they're close on target. Even their empty container ships are pretty formidable weapons." Quite deliberately, intended as such, I suspect. For that sort of journey every atom of payload would have to worth its weight in potential. Knowing in advance the physical effects available to us, the aliens would have engineered virtually every molecule in the fleet both to withstand our destructive capability and to destroy in ways against which we'd have no defense. "What you're postulating substantially agrees with what we're finding. Even the empty hulks are immune to particulate and nuclear reactions. Their only weak point seems a susceptibility to selfdestruction initiated by near or complete contact... Jupiter! Ander, I think you may have given me an answer. The function of a catalyst is not to cause a reaction but to accelerate a reaction already latent. In fact, to outplay the system at its own game." T he next moments saw Bron running across the bridge, calling for the weapons master and the ship's armorer. He outlined his new tactics to them, set them moving on the double to make the necessary modifications in Skuas torpedo warheads. He instructed the ship's captain to locate a suitable target for an experiment, then spent a few fleeting instants advising Jaycee of his view of her place in the lower Firmament. Having done this last he felt much better. Already the aliens apparently sensed the new excitement. The waves of muttering grew shorter in period and a spreading panic seemed to be expressing itself in a volume of sound steadily rising toward some thixotropic crescendo it never actually attained. Bron could even detect quick and urgent voices, individuals calling and responding, a nervously increasing tension that hinted of fear and anger and terrible resentment. He could almost picture the aliens crowded in darkness, dripping with moisture, smelling of unknowable fluids because of too close confinement with impossible engines. He thought he could read their leaning toward violent death as a Final escape from a foredoomed and long-suffered incarceration. His target chosen, Bron waited for the armorer's clearance on the weaponry. He did not get the goahead until his ship had entered battle range. There were only seconds to go before the critical registers would run to zero. Knowing that he was now committed, he keyed his confirmation and allowed the computers to take over battlecontrol. With the alien target ship clear upon the screens, he watched the long slim space-torpedoes slide out. Their progress across the space vector seemed maddeningly slow. The tension rose audibly among the Destroyer crew. As the torpedoes crawled toward their target the magnification of the screens increased to provide a close-up of the area where the actual strike would take place. Normally a strike's reaction brilliance overloaded the screens and precluded any viewing of the exact moment of impact -- but when Bron's modified torpedoes hit no energy was released from the projectiles themselves. Instead, the stricken alien put out crazy spirals of some unknown mode of energy discharge. The screens remained clear. For a tense moment the alien craft developed long, coruscating helixes of purple fire, like some surrealistic porcupine. These discrete rays of energy lengthened to peacock-tail configurations and could easily have enveloped any closely attacking ship. Then the curious emanation collapsed and died, leaving only ion-contaminated vacuum to mark the place where the ship had been. Almostthe entire mass of the alien ship had been converted to controlled-release radiation -- a fantastic technical potential, the purpose of which had IF been thwarted by Bron's modified weapon. T hroughout the entire episode the goose-mutter had been subdued and anxious. This time there was no returning roar, only a continuing murmur of despondency and fear. Bron ordered another target ship to be found, and he relayed details of the new technique to several companion ships. He sensed that somehow the aliens could read the consequences of his decision-making. The steady depression in their voices convinced him that his present course of action was going to swing the battle decisively in his favor. A second successful sortie reinforced his conviction that he was on a winning streak. Soon two other fleetships reported enthusiastically that the method worked. The promise of again being able to attack with long-range weaponry galvanized the Destroyer fleet into action. It was for this type of spacewar that the crews had been trained and the magnificent ships equipped. Now they were again the Destroyers in a truly literal sense. Bron winced as he saw a hundred of his ships simultaneously engage the enemy. The bronze-hued ships moved like fireflies, weaving intricately slow patterns against the vast backdrop of the void. The dark alien vessels maintained the meticulously straight, lonely courses of the damned. Soon the aliens were erupting into futile suicidal reactions in half a hundred different modes of physical disruption. Great wastes of space became momentary suns or were lit with vast tracts of impossible ionization. Sometimes these reactions were so fierce and numerous that a new galaxy seemed-being born beyond the shores of the Milky Way. "Ananias. Come in, Ananias.' "On-line, Bron. We can see you now. That looks like quite a party you're having." "Yes. We've found their Achilles' heel. Their vessels are not susceptible to destructive reaction, but they destruct themselves if subjected to physical contact. Our normal space missiles had proximity fuses, so they never made physical contact before they actuated. All we're doing is taking the fuses out of the warheads." "But if you withdraw the fuses, the warheads can't activate!" "They don't need to. The entire alien fleet is on a suicide run. Every damn atom of it is programed for catastrophic destruction. All you have to do is trigger it." Space blossomed before the Skua with a hundred fleeting suns. Ion trails glowed like neon bars. Red, violet and yellow fire pockets sprouted like fantastic flowers in space. An insane landscape of insubstantial radiation effects was emerging plainly on the broad canvas of nothingness. The alien voices were now a continuous scream of fear without perceptible inner-modulation or separation of components -- but rapidly becoming thinner, as though the members of the unholy choir were sinking one by one and drowning in their terrible pool of fire. F inally the alien voices faded and died, the last traces lingering like smoke after a summer's fire. As the Commando fleet cut through to join the Destroyers it was already apparent that Bron was going to win the battle. Soon the ships from the combined fleets simply ranged wide through space, seeking and destroying stragglers. Ultimately there was a silence in Bron's head. He felt a compelling wave of fatigue sweep over him. He had not slept for better than thirty hours. When the trailing fringes of the battle no longer demanded his immediate attention he quit his desk, went to his bunk and fell instantly asleep. After a while it seemed that a gentle rocking motion aroused him to a semiconscious dream state. A part of his mind realized that this was an illusion produced within sleep, yet some analytical faculty remained intrigued by the detail inherent in the recurring nightmare. Instead of rejecting the situation and forcing himself awake, he allowed himself to follow the fantasy. It started with an almost complete absence of tactile sensation, as though his mind had become insulated from his body or his body from reality. Yet he was aware of the ripple and eddy of a gentle tide that bore him over black waters. The impression deepened until it achieved the status of reality. There was no light, but the fidelity with which the elements of the pattern came together was so consistent as to be perfectly believable. He could hear the slight wash and lap of small ripples against the tunnel walls and the quick near-ultrasonic echoes that gave proportion to the dark tunnel down which he was being drawn. Somewhere ahead a phantom goose was piping through a layer of slime with a plaintive concern that had no human associations. A sudden bend in the impossible river made itself clearly felt as his imaginary raft fouled some jagged corner and swung him around before allowing the dark sluice to carry him on. Somewhere on his way the solitary glutinous goose was joined by another and then by an increasing number to raise a harrowing hymn that filled him with a cold horror. Another bend, and this time he clearly felt the bump against the bank...felt the bump...on his suit... Suit? His shocked fingers explored, found slight seams in the inner lining of heavy gloves. His whole body confirmed the sugIF gestion that his earlier lack of sensation had been the combined effect of his being confined in the padded recesses of an exceptionally heavy-duty spacesuit and of a numbness of the flesh, presumably from his having lain in one position overlong. These factors, plus a light gravity and the buoyancy of the fluid in which he floated face up, explained his lack of tactile sensation and his appreciation of the direction and motion of the tide. Nothing explained, though, why he was conscious of the detail of so unlikely a situation -- or what diabolical things were waiting for him around those stygian bends. The goose-mutter rose into a braying scream, a chorus of dissent, accusation, rebuke. The quality of the dreadful sound alone would have been sufficient to make him flee from the encounter had he been able to control his actions. As it was, floating on his back in a nearly unmaneuverable suit, he had no more power to resist his journey than if he had been an upturned beetle in a racing gutter stream. fear and hatred were being vocally compressed into a jarring anthem of complaint and the bitterest of reproaches by something that waited for him around the final turn of the river. Panic swamped his reason. He struggled against the encumbering suit, fretting at his inability to move, his arms. Restrained and helpless. he waited with dreadful anticipation as the inexorable tide bore him around the curve. Overhead a million pressures leaned their dark depressions on the tunnel roof. The air he was breathing was hot and moist with the sweat from his fear and so tainted by metal and plastic that it soured his tongue. At any moment now he would emerge to face persecutors who had planned his murder at a time when life on Terra had still been struggling for an identity separate from the nonliving elements of the primeval soup. H e had no idea of what their faces or forms would be like, but he doubted that his sanity would stand the revelation. The scolding choir was now so near that he felt he ought to be able to stretch out and touch the violent and anguished creatures. He felt there ought to be a light -- but he could discern none at all. Then another voice crept in, quieter at first, but gradually pulling at him with such urgency that he had to turn toward it regardless of suit or geese or the drag of the unknown tide. Perhaps in the sordid cells of some inhuman inquisition a spirit snapped... "Jaycee, help me!"... the mind mazed not by the sear in steel, the nibblin nerve... "Jaycee, for God's sake, get me out of here!"... but by a vaster wound. "Jaycee, I don't know a blessed thing abdut God, but get me out of this." You're coming out, Bron. Hold on a little longer. Your metabolism is improvin' fast and your heartbeat's almost back to normal. Bron opened his eyes. An oxygen mask was pressed across his face and beyond it the concerned eyes of a medic were watching him anxiously. As he focused his vision he found he was no longer in his bunk but on an operating table in the Skua's medical bay. "What happened, Jaycee?" You went into a coma about seventeen hours ago. The medics tried to pull you out but were unsuccessful. Finally I had to use the semantic trigger to force you around, because your body processes were running dangerously low. I've been in contact with Ananias and we were about to authorize a heart massage. "I had that dream again, Jaycee. The one where I'm floating in a tunnel and the aliens are waiting for me. I've got one more curve to go before I meet whatever they are -- " The aliens haven't given up yet, Bron. You've beaten their fleet, but they've established some other method of gettin at you. Somehow they're workin on your mind. "Those alien signals on the transfer link. Can you still hear them?" Stronger than ever. Antares is filterin' them out for us, but they're still cornin' in. "The alien fleet signals faded toward the end of the battle. What we're getting now must be longrange stuff from the alien's point of origin. It's some sort of encoded imagery transmitted as sound. It seems to be their form of communication. I can even grasp pictures from it myself at times. But when I'm relaxed the effect can be quite hypnotic." That computes. Your coma was consistent with the effect of ultradeep hypnosis. That explores levels of consciousness down to about what we used for the Haltern character synthesis. It's dangerous territory to leave exposed to the use of an enemy. "I don't feel this as an attack. I feel its some attempt at communication." They're just tryin to kill you, Bron. Plain old-fashioned murder. "No. It's more than that, Jaycee. That dream place is real -- it's a projection of an actual physical situation. To survive there requires a heavy-duty spacesuit -- which suggests that it's a very hot place. The gravity is only about half Terranormal. It has an atmosphere -- I could hear transmitted sounds. It also has a hydrosphere -- I was floating on some of it. I didn't dream those things, Jaycee. They IF were communicated to me. It's an actual place -- somewhere." If it does exist its in Messier thirty-one -- right across the void. But I dont see why its existence is in any way important. "It is, though. I've got to go there, Jaycee. That dream was a sample of visualized chaos. My journey down that tunnel is an already established part of future history." Youve altered chaos trends before, Bron, so what makes this one immutable? "Because all we've beaten out here is a few dozen individuals and an uncommonly antique spacefleet. The real enemy is still untouched and probably just as virulent as ever. If they could put a hellburner down on Onaris, they could as easily put one on Terra or any of the other prime worlds. In fact, those burners may already be on their way. If we're ever to win totally I have to carry the fight to them. And that dream, Jaycee, is a prediction of some part of the result of my doing just that." have you with the potential subspace capability to take them to Messier thirty-one?" Ananias whistled as he caught the implications of the question. "It's never been done, Bron. Not right across the void. The Tantalus went farther out than any other vessel ever did before -- and even that was only a fraction of the distance." "This time I want to go right across. Give me details of any Commando ship with a known subspace-jump capability of better than ten kiloparsecs." "But you're talking about six hundred kiloparsecs. No ship has that capability." "No ship has attempted it, so we don't know. I want ships, as well as volunteer crews to man them. We've carried out a review of all Destroyer ships and we think we may have three with that sort of subspace potential. I'd prefer to have thrity." "Engaged, Bron. I'll run a computer check immediately. If we've any candidates I'll let you know." "Jaycee, are you there?" No. Doc on-line. Deep-space Research Labs have just returned a verdict that there s barely a two percent possibility of any ship of known design reaching Messier thirty-one. After about fifteen kiloparsecs the subspace dropout determination becomes so imprecise that dropout probability approaches null infinity. There s no record of anything s having jumped more than fifteen kiloparsecs and having returned to real-space. "At two percent possibility it's still a risk I'm prepared to take. If necessary we'll take the distance in a number of small jumps." That won help. You cant fix dropout coordinates in an area Mhere there are no stars to use as reference points, "We'll manage somehow. Doc. It's got to be done." I still dont see what you expect to achieve if you get there. You cant take an army with you and the star population of Andromeda is even larger than that of our own galaxy. The odds are several against your even locating the right primary, let alone the alien homeworld. "I'm taking a chaos crew with me. It's estimated that we can get a fair chaos fix from examining the origins of the alien fleet. That should give us some idea of the sector. From there it will be a matter of making astronomical correction for galactic drift and rotation." You re in charge, Bron. If you want to try it we cant stop you. But from where were sitting it seems a foolish waste of mqn and ships. "Objection noted, Doc. But I have to play the game my way. Is Jaycee there?" Shes off duty. Want me to put out a call? "No. Just describe her to me." You know I cant do that, Bron. You dont really expect an answer. "I fail to see what's so damn secret about the description of someone who spends half her life practicing bitchiness inside my head." The information s secret for the specific reason that we dont want you to know. The two of you were psychologically paired to establish a strongly antagonistic relationship. As anticipated, youve achieved a high degree of rapport -- one not complicated by common sentiment. It makes you two the best operating team wee got. That's why we wont allow anything to upset it. Bron was amused. "Like falling in love, for instance?" Don't underestimate the power of the coupling between you two, Bron. You're more tightly keyed together, except physically, than two people could be in any normal relationship. You wouldn't get a weld that thorough even in a clqssic love match. "Tell me more. Doc." I've told you too much already. From now on questions about Jaycee won't be answered. I just wanted to show you how delicate the balance is. "I think you've shown me a whole lot more than that. I think you've just reshaped a big piece of future history." Bron moved across the Skua's bridge to a computer input terminal. His fingers sought their positions on the keyboard, but his eyes avoided watching wfiat his fingers were conveying to the keys. His gaze remained firhily fixed on the instruments across the room. What are you doing, Bron? I IF think we ought to have a record of that. "Stay out of my hair, Doc. This whole assignment's out of your control. Regardless of your advice, I'm going to Messier thirty-one. And if I survive I'm coming back to tackle the galaxy's other great enigma." And what the hell is that? "Doc, I'm coming back for Jaycee. And it'll take more than the Stellar Commando to stop me." D eftly, subtly, the thunder of the gravity drives died and the six ships jumped into the dimensionless corridors of tachyon space. Every time they reached the quiescent phase of a jump, Bron quit the jump harness and began to plot more detail into his new venture, The Destroyer corvette Nemesis was only a fraction of the size of the Skua, but its subspace installation was the most powerful in the fleet. Alongside, but invisible now, two other Destroyer ships and three from the Commando fleet sang their eerie way through the superluminal continuum. Down in the hastily conceived chaos complex of the Nemesis, a volunteer crew of technicians worked steadily at the task of pinpointing with increasing definition the origin of the alien armada. The grinning imp in charge of the fantastic improvisation was none other than Academician Laaris, formerly of the Tantalus, who presided with troll-like exhilaration over the most detailed and exacting chaos determination ever made. Lacking the usual stars for subspace reference, the coordinates set up in the subspace grids were based on Laaris's increasingly hardening chaos values for the path of the alien fleet as he backtracked it through space and time. Bron was keeping his fingers crossed. When setting up subspace coordinates, the use of theoretical chaos positions instead of a replica star matrix was a risky and untried procedure. So far the six ships had taken seven leaps of fifty thousand parsecs and had arrived virtually simultaneously and without incident. This was so far at variance with the statistical odds of such long-range subspace operations that all those involved were conscious of living on borrowed time. It was Laaris who first noted a peculiarity in the chaos-predicted routing. Refusing to accept Bron as anything other than Haltern the master syncretist, he continually brought to him the most obscure chaos problems for explanation. Partly with Ander's help and partly from his own improving understanding of chaos mechanisms, Bron usually managed to produce a satisfactory answer. This time Laaris knew that he had found a problem to end all chaos problems, and his delight at the finding was equalled only by his concern for its possible consequences. Mastership 'altern, this you 'ave to explain to me' He unrolled a dozen chartstrips on the table and waited with impatient expectancy while Bron examined them in detail. "What's the problem?" asked Bron. "This divergence." Laaris indicated the computer comments running down the edge of the strip. "The farther we go, the more our course diverges from a straight line." "Which surely only indicates that the path of the alien fleet was similarly curved?" "Not so! We should be proceeding down straight coinciden' axis from resultant to origin. This is a geocentric line -- he got no damn right to bend." "What about the time factor?" asked Bron. "With the rotation and drift of the Andromeda galaxy through the years, surely our course must curve as we backtrack the alien ships through time. The best fix we can expect chaos to achieve is the position of the point of origin as it was seven hundred Laaris hopped from one foot to the other in sheer exasperation. "I already 'ave explained. Chaos axis always straight line. You confuse it with space-time where you can 'ave your curvature. In chaos all shock-spheres are spherical and all axes straight. She don' work no other way." Bron examined the chartstrips again, noting the computed tensorial factors thronging the margin of the record. "Since it does appear axiomatic that all chaos axes are straight, while our course is not, the logical inference would seem to be that the factors we are feeding into our computers are not true chaos determinations." "Do you doubt our detectors?" Laaris was immediately on the defensive. "Of course not. I know you -- and you would have checked them before you brought this to me. It's the entropic data itself that I suspect. How possible is it that we're being fed a signal our detectors Find indistinguishable from the ripples of a real event?" Laaris rubbed his brow. "It's only a question of signal strength. Any signal indistinguishable from a true event process would be handled as though it were an event process. If it swamped the original signal we might never know of substitution. Why you ask?" "Because it has just occured to me," said Bron, "that we perhaps aren't searching for the aliens -- we're being led to them." XX J to know if deliberate entropic transmissions are feasible." Vve had Ander on-line since IF Laaris came to see you. He says modified entropic transmission techniques are both feasible and actually in use for instantaneous communications over galactic distances. In fact, a form of entropic transmission is used in the transfer link itself. "Then we could be riding down some alien homing beam we are mistaking for an event axis?" Affirmative, Bron. With their technology anythin is possible. The break-jump alert signaled termination of the present traverse through subspace, and shortly Bron was immersed in the intricate agonies of re-entry. A sudden encounter with a burst of startled alien goose-mutter filled him with apprehension. Since his induced coma aboard the Skua the voices had not been raised to a detectable level, though he always now took anti-hypnotic drugs before he slept as an insurance against recurrence. It took the ship's radio officer scant seconds to identify the attendant catastrophe. Two of their companion ships had failed to make the dropout. A slight possibility existed that the missing ships would revert to real-space at some point in the near future and in some place far removed from their intended destination. More probably they had joined that lost legion of ships doomed to spend forever in the weird, dimensionless corridors of the subspace mode. Bron called a radio conference of his ships' captains while the next jump was being programed. At their present rate, four more subspace jumps of fifty kiloparsecs each were required to complete the journey to the fringes of the Andromeda galaxy. Each jump bore its own possibility of failed dropout. The statistical odds of survival had already been stretched heavily. Bron decided to try the last two hundred kiloparsecs in one jump. Nobody dissented, though they all knew that they were playing in an area of physics where they had no qualifications whatever. Laaris soon produced evidence of a pure entropic transmission of such an intensity that it completely obliterated his normal chaos determinations. Although the trap was now painfully obvious, Bron ordered the indicated route to be set up in the subspace grids. Where there was an alien beacon, he reasoned, there also would be the most likely place to find aliens. All coordinates were doubleand triple-checked, and the four ships jumped into subspace. When she finally reached the dropout point, the Nemesis was alone, B ron had to admit to curiously mixed feelings as his lone craft hit real-space at the edge of the great galaxy of Andromeda. Fear, anxiety and regret for the loss of his companion ships were paramount, but wonder was not the least of his emotions. He had ranged broadly through the Milky Way and knew something of the infinite variety of its stars. Superficially these stars in Andromeda were of similar range in size, type, spectrum and density of distribution. Yet never could his own eyes have convinced him that these were the stars of home. In some indefinable way the magnificent array seemed ineffably unique and foreign. Perhaps Andromeda indeed was different -- among all the stars and planets in the Milky Way only Terra had detectably produced intelligent life. Now, on the edge of another galaxy, he was destined to meet the alien equivalent of Man. His fleet now trimmed to a solitary ship by precalculated circumstance, he knew that when he came around that last bend in the tunnel he would be both defenseless and alone. Alone before a life form that had acquired space capability back when the first alarms of life had begun to shrill on Terra. "Listen, you out there," he said, suddenly struck by the thought that the aliens probably could intercept his transfer link. "I know you're listening." The goose-mutter rose to audibility, then descended again below threshold value, almost as if in answer. Bron continued, "I'm coming down to meet you. You've destroyed many of our worlds without apparent reason. If I wanted I could destroy many more of yours, since I have access to ships that can cross the void in mere fractions of a lifetime. Therefore I come out of strength, n,ot out of weakness. I shall not bear weapons, but if I or my ship comes to harm the rest of my kind will know of it and you will be destroyed because of it." Again the goose-mutter rose like the waves of an angry sea, then hushed to a background noise like surf on a distant shore. Laaris came in with his latest calculations. He was now able to pinpoint the source of entropic noise. It appeared to originate from a system only two kiloparsecs in from the alien Rim. Bron authorized the jump and, after the computers had run an astronomical survey to establish a true replica star matrix, the Nemesis slid into subspace on her terminal jump. It emerged in the vicinity of a perfectly ordinary K# primary of about eighty percent of the mass of Sol. It had only one planet, which was smaller than Terra. Telescopic examination of what little could be seen of the planet's surface revealed nothing significant. It was a craggy rock-ball, cloudbound, apparently lifeless, and with a boiling and turbulent hydrocarbon atmosphere. The temperature of its surface was in IF excess of two hundred degrees Celsius. The alien entropic signal was originating from some region of the unfriendly terrain, but the limited discrimination of the juryrigged scanners on the Nemesis failed to resolve the location except in the broadest terms. The Nemesis carried only one scoutcraft, a pinnace. Bron ordered heavy-duty spacesuits to be broken out and called for two volunteers to accompany him. The volunteers came readily. When Bron inspected the suit with which he had been provided, he knew that his journey down that dreadful tunnel was all too soon to become reality. H aving been built primarily for deep-space work, the pinnace was unhappy in any kind of atmosphere. It proved especially so in the vapor-laden hydrocarbon storms it now entered. Unable to use its thrust motors efficiently at such low speeds and having an inadequate aerodynamic form for achieving stability in boiling multi-fractioned mineral-oil vapors, the craft stalled, balked and was buffeted by sidewinds, convection currents and wax-laden downdraughts. Occasionally, through a hail of platelets of crystalline higherparaffin snow, Bron saw the surface of the planet. He gazed with amazement at the vicious rocky crags swept by an oily, droplet-loaded wind and at the sullen swell of a liquid metal sea. The land masses were spitefully fragmented, broken islands and torn peaks reflecting the atrocious vehemence of unearthly Nature. Here and there vast mountain ranges seemed to have been torn out by the roots and tossed sideways to shatter into razor-sharp rocks and black, impenetrable fissures. Nowhere was there any sign of the restorationvof order that would indicate intelligent intervention. Bron and his volunteers made three sorties in the pinnace, returning to the Nemesis to rest, recalibrate their instruments and discharge their records for processing. Laaris was operating all the computer power he had at his command, trying to equate the varying alien signal strength with some aspect of the geometry of the planet. The information from their low-level nights was beginning to match up to a pattern of coincidences, indicating at first a point on the southern hemisphere, then gradually tightening to a particular land mass and finally to coordinates indicating an area a bare kilometer in diameter. Bron called for aerial photographs and both highand lowlevel sets were matched to give a reasonable facsimile of the area. Bron's hands were shaking as he took the finished prints. Some alien description of the place he had not admitted to his consciousness suddenly burst into recognition. He knew instinctively how to interpret the patterns of light and darkness. He realized that all this had been described to him in the deep hypnotic coma he had experienced on the Skua. On his awakening he had remembered only the traumatic moments leading to the point where he had been torn away from the encounter just before the climax. Now he was back at the beginning of the journey -- and this time he felt sure he was destined to go right through to the end. "Jaycee!" Readin you, Bron. "Give me a readout of the secondary circuits on the transfer link." Why? You thinkin of takin a holiday? "I said read them, Jaycee." Very well. Catatonic Withdrawal. Anesthesia with Maintained Consciousness, Punishment, Death. What you meanin , Bron? Bron held up a print and pointed toa shadowed area that bore no detail. "That's the entrance to the tunnel, Jaycee. I'm going down there. Unless I miss my guess it's going to be a rough journey. You've got six hours to prepare. Get some rest. Once we start. I'll be needing all the back-up you give me." T he pinnace made a precarious touchdown on the only available flat space in the area. The landing was a classic example of triumph over bitter odds. All the way down through the troposphere, the heavy methane winds had buffeted the craft and repeatedly sent it keeling dangerously off course. Storm-walls -- sheets of condensing hydrocarbon polymers -- wrapped themselves around the optical navigation systems and made nonsense of the readings of the laser altimeters. The embarrassingly high charge of static the pinnace had acquired had to be carefully bled away with sodium plasma before the craft dared approach closely the eutectic metal sea. Finally, however, the landing was achieved. Flexing slightly on its cushioned legs under the pressures of the storm, the craft stood with nose pointed longingly toward the quietude of space. Its carefully chosen position was atop a black flat-topped rock that protruded like a miniature island from the dull metallic sea. From the incidence of surrounding rocks it was obvious that the ocean here was actually no more than the fringes of a tide eroding a broken coastal shelf. The sweeping metal surf hammered the black rock with an inertial insistence unnerving to contemplate. The shock of the wave impact was easily felt inside the shuddering ship. A tide with a density of eight, and a temperature of two hundred degrees Celsius, was no mean wash. IF A hundred meters away, a mountain cavern opened like a black mouth in a twisted misshapen head. By some mechanism yet to be explained, a strong tidal current entered the cavern but was subject to no apparent reverse of flow. Whatever entered the dark galleries tended to remain. Your aptitude for most of the weaknesses of the flesh is proven beyond doubt. Jaycee was darkly critical. Unfortunately your capacity for successful suicide has never yet been established. Is that the place? "We know the signals are coming from this area and the stream entering the cave seems to equate with the dream." So what do you plan to do? "I'm going in there, Jaycee." With a task force? "No. Just me, with you along." I dont get your motive, Bron. Its a suicide trip even without aliens. Look at the strength of that current. What you tryin to prove? "My journey down there is already part of history. I have to know what's beyond that last bend." Level with me, Bron. You re no martyr and you re not riskin your fool neck in the interests of interstellar relationships. It isnt heroism and ifs not just idle curiosity. You re too damn egotistic and selfcentered to care about the rest of the universe. If you re going down that tunnel ifs because you've a pretty good idea there's something you think you want at the end of it and you're reasonably sure you're goin to be able to take it with you. I can't see how you figure it, but as sure as hellJ'm curious. "You know what your trouble is, Jaycee? You've got no soul." And you know what your trouble is, Bron? You're runnin remarkably short of future. B ron watched the fearful scene for many minutes before he began to make his move. At last he quit the pinnace. The terrifying pressures outside stiffened the heat resistant suit and made it even more cumbersome, especially since he had to walk'across the broken rocks above the tide-race without being able properly to see the areas to which he committed his feet. His journey through the terrible atmosphere was like that of a deepsea diver caught in some undersea vortex. It was a moot point as to whether his own volition or the barbarous physics of the place was most responsible for taking him into the entrance to the cave, but he had a distinct feeling that even the wind was conspiring to make him enter. Keep goin', Bron. I'm ridin with you. Jaycee's voice was a welcome touch of reality in the nightmare. "How are the life-support systems doing, Jaycee?" The suit appears adequate for about ten hours if you don't damage it. We re not as certain that you can stand that length of confinement. If you get claustrophobic youll likely do yourself some damage. "You know how to quiet me if I get that bent." It would be a pleasure -- and not for the first time. You always were a psychological mess. Her words carried the edge of disgust. He was well inside the cavern mouth now, trying to use the suit's inbuilt lighting to define his way. The jet-black of the rock refused to throw back any useful definition and only the racing metal stream showed up as a wide, glittering tide under a roof that progressively lowered toward an enigmatic somewhere. Then he heard it. The goosemutter, this time coming via the suit phones, not the transfer link. From somewhere impossibly far away he could hear the glutinous cries and knew from their urgency that they had detected his coming. He also heard Jaycee draw a sharp breath of anxiety. Shortly he was forced to stop. The jagged bank on which he had been painfully clambering came to an end with the gradual closing of the tunnel's mouth. Experimentally he tested the racing stream, hoping to strike bottom, but such was its depth and density that he was unable to apply sufficient weight to force his foot down to the underlyingrock. As if he had extended his leg into a torrent of quicksilver, the heavy liquid drag tore him loose from the precarious handholds and with a cry he slipped and fell on his back into the eutectic tide. As he fell he heard the headlamp strike a spiteful point of rock. This should not have been able to damage the lamp, but somehow it caused it to cease its solid-state illumination. For the first time since he had entered the tunnel he experienced panic as a full appreciation of his animal helplessness closed about his thinking. He was being carried face-up along this fantastic tunnel that murmured and whispered with the ripple and eddy of the unalterable metal flood. Are you all right, Bron? Her voice brought back objectivity. "I'm still afloat -- if you're awarding any points for buoyancy. But that's about the sum of my assets at this point." Believe me, you re not jokin. Aliens or no aliens, you know youve got no chance of ever gettin back out of there. So precisely what you up to, Bron? "Would you believe that I'm not up to anything?" No! I know you for the scheming wretch you are. "Then I'll tell you what's on my mind. I'm accepting that dream imagery as being a piece of visualized chaos. I regard it as proof that I did -- will -- somehow penetrate right into this place. Right up to the point where the aliens are." IF But you dont know what happens beyond that point. "No, except that it's axiomatic that this expedition must be successful." Where in space did you conjure that piece of wishful thinking? "My dear Jaycee, it's been implicit in everything the aliens have done. The hellburners, the armada, were all in some way aimed at lessening the probability of this contact's ever being made. All those years ago they tried to avert the happening that is soon to take place. They would scarcely have gone to those lengths to prevent something that was going to fail anyway. Therefore it has to succeed."  dont see it that way, Bron. I think theyve tried every way they know to destroy the chaos factor you represent. All their long-range attacks failed because of miscalculation, so theyve induced you to come to them. I think you re in a one-way chaos disposal unit. As I read it, theyve got you in a trap that will become increasingly lethal until the chaos potential you represent is utterly destroyed. "I don't agree, Jaycee. But even if you're right, they've already failed." What you meanin, Bron? "A point you and they may have overlooked. I'm not just an individual. Through the transfer link I'm a composite being, a gestalt synthesis of me, you, your computing and communications complex and such characters as Doc, Ander and Ananias. The aliens might destroy me, but the rest of the gestalt remains with all the original knowledge and purpose untouched. Get yourself a new agent and nothing has been lost but a few kilos of replaceable protein. You see, it isn't just me who's the catalyst, but the whole system of which I happen to be a part." Quit talkin, Bron. Vm turnin up the audio gain. Sounds like a waterfall or rapids ahead. Whafs the current like? "Seems to be pulling harder, but there's not much I can judge it by." See if you can strike a bank and wedge on it. Accordin to our instruments, that fall ahead is really vicious. "How vicious?" We could be well adrift because we dont know the full range of physical parameters, but we re readin a probable drop approachin three kilometers. "Jaycee -- " Yes? "Nothing. What are the chances of surviving that?" If you were a jelly Id rate the prospect at one percent. However, as a vertebrate -- "Will the suit hold?" Depends what you hit. Most probably not. Some of the lifesupport systems wont stand that sort of deceleration anyway. "Then it should provide a fairly quick answer as to which of us is right... He felt a bump. In an agonized reappraisal of the sensations that reached his cocooned form he knew he was in free fall and plunging through a dark hiatus that seemed to be limited only by eternity. From somewhere far below, the angry sound of violently agitated fluids rushed up to meet him. Unashamedly he screamed and, as he continued to fall, the scream became frozen on his lips. He felt the slight motion of the wash lifting and falling... ,cryin futility unto a futile wind... The sense of being borne on a moving current down a dark tunnel. Perceptible changes of direction, unseen, felt through some inertial function. The quick lap of the dark stream being echoed spitefully from the pressing span above. And sounds -- mucilaginous, coagulating, curdled, clammy sounds. Sounds that chilled the blood...the mind mazed not by the searin steel, the nibblin nerve... Somewhere a glutinous goose sang a solitary anserine hymn through a throat filled with its own life-blood. It was joined by another and yet others in an inhuman anthem distilled from terror and corrodingly bitter reproaches. Overhead, the pressures of evolution leaned against the tunneled rock. His lungs were refusing to accept the tainted, metal-tasting air and he could hear his own sweat dripping about his ears. The inability to feel or move his arms and legs brought him quickly to the verge of hysteria. Another bend and this time he clearly felt the bump against the bank...felt the bump...on his suit. "Jaycee -- " Rid in with you, Bron. "The fall didn't kill me, then?" We threw you into catatonic shock. You went down easier that way. Actually it wasnt quite as bad as we thought. The height was broken by a cascade of about seventeen falls. You re about three kilometers deep now and the level is still fallin. Weve got you under conscious anesthesia at the moment because we didnt know how badly you may have been mashed by the falls. "Lift the anesthesia, Jaycee, I'd like to find out." A transparent hum filled his head for a moment, then painful feeling flooded into his limbs. How you feelin, Bron? "Doubt if I've an unstrained joint anywhere, but nothing seems to be broken." Apparently the suit was becomin more rigid as the depth-pressure increased. Ifs more of a casin now. Talk about the devil lookin after his own! IF "Can you hear the aliens, Jaycee?" Weve been plottin sound intensities. Accordin to our calculations you re goin to be meetin them in about seven minutes. The goose-mutter grew into a vast, brassy braying, a throbbing crescendo of sound that struck back from the tunnel walls in a rippled anacamptic roar. The scolding choir was now so near that he felt he was almost in its midst. Another bump and he knew he had rounded the last of the dreadful bends. This time he was in no dream. There was no possibility of recall from the edge of nightmare. This was reality. He felt the stream slacken and heard echoes become attenuated by distance, as though he had entered a larger cavern. And then came light, a dim luminescence, straight glowing bars along level walls -- and a sudden terrifying silence. His back came to rest against an inclined tracery grille in which he found he could catch his heel and force himself up out of the eutectic sluice. He looked about him in dim amazement, warily prepared to meet his persecutors, no matter how terrible their form. But he found he was shockingly alone. The metallic stream ran between straight and artificial banks, interrupted only by the fret on which he had laboriously climbed. Looking about, he found himself in a vast chamber whose distant and complex walls were covered by a thousand unguessable patterns that might have been either decorative or functional. Tall machines lurked like mute watchers in alcoves, the designs of which were mindwrenching in the unearthly tenets of their forms. The machines were huge, silent and completely alien to him in purpose and concept. They were frightening in their strangeness. H e froze in horror at a movement from within the ranks of dark and unknown mechanisms. A familiar and plaintive cry rang out and chilled him to the marrow. Alien living shapes, dark in the sparse light, goose-stepped out from some unanticipated place and moved in profiled files -- deliberately to the stream to drink. He watched them curve horny bills incuriously into the metal stream -- and just as incuriously waddle past his silent form, protesting some unknown indignity but oblivious to his presence. With mounting horror and increasing comprehension, he watched them go -- degenerate, blind, ugly, leathery, alien and completely stupid quasi-aviforms -- they nested, fed and presumably br in this treasurehouse of a lost culture. Even their prehensile hands had atrophied in favor of a broad bill and a long, thrusting neck. The whole chamber had the feeling of a cathedral -- but in honor of what dead gods? There were a realized the irony and incongruity of the announcing choir of voices. Once their hyms had held much meaning. Now their race neared an evolutionary end and their personal complaint had dwindled from cosmic considerations to a local spat about the infrequency of worms. While an alien phonograph had piped something from the pinnacle of their once-held greatness... With returning confidence Bron started to explore. Some of the mechanisms had strange lights playing inside them, the luminescence even yet moving as though to perform some intelligent function even though the whole place was possessed by the stamp of incredible age. One machine, as he approached it, began to speak in a welter of the familiar goosemutter, but softly, as if its resigned and sibilant speech were now a message of acquiescence, ar apology for its previous paeans of hate. He regarded it uneasily, sensing that it was conscious of his presence and knowing that this was the voice that had menaced his dreams and probably directed the attack detail of the alien fleet. Now the machine acknowledged his mastery, but he felt no sense of triumph. Where are the aliens, Bron? "The kind we came to meet don't exist any more, Jaycee. They're extinct." But they attacked us! "The far ancestors of these creatures did, but they faded and forgot haps there were a few live carcasses in the fleet, but they had long since lost their sense of purpose. Only machines carried out that nearly mindless battle." can you be so sure the aliens dont exist? "Evolution, Jaycee. The fact that they achieved intelligence is a proof that they were evolving organisms. years for man to swing out of the trees and boost himself into space. With the possibility of that rate of progress, have you any idea where a further six hundred and ninetyOne thing is certain, we'll no longer be the dominant Homo sapiens. The same thing will have happened to us as has already happened to these aliens."  hadnt thought of us that way. "The development of intelligence is a kind of evolutionary critical reaction. It's unstable. The usefulness of intelligence as a long-term survival factor is questionable. It's probably not valid for much over But what about the entropic beacon that brought you here? "The aliens' ancestors made good machines, Jaycee -- designed them to last an eternity, probably not realizing they would have forgotten how to use them long before the machines wore out. It's possible the IF beacon was their own deep-space cominunications link, or perhaps it was set up by some latter-day alien philosopher to invite anyone with the technology and competence to come and partake of the things they left behind. A sort of final memorial. This place -- what is it? Some kind of museum designed to demonstrate their technological peak to any life form with the intelligence and the ability to gain admission." But why did they send the armada and the hellburners? "That's easily explained. Early in their evolution this place may have been something special to them. Then they read through their version of chaos analysis that one day an alien creature would stand in their special hall and pick it clean like a robber at a grave. Not realizing they would ultimately welcome the approach, they did all in their power to stop it. But whatever they did, that creature still remained, a positive future specter. They didn't know that their own failure -- and not we -- would destroy them." You suspected all this before you went into the cavern, didnt you? Jaycee began to read new meanings into Bron's insistence on finding the alien homeworld. "I knew they couldn't survive their own evolution over such a great period of time. Despite the apparent evidence to the contrary, there couldn't still be a functioning alien menace. Therefore there had to be something else." And thats the thing you were after? "Jaycee, these people were technologically far in advance of us in a great many fields. They could engineer molecules in the same way that we engineer machines. They used entropy as competently as we use electromagnetism. Imagine a fusion of their science with ours. Is there anything in the universe that would be denied us?" And it all belongs to Bron! Jaycee's bitterness etched every syllable with acid. "That's right, Jaycee. One day I'm coming back with enough men and equipment to open up this place and carry away as much of it as we have the ability to understand." Someone may go back, Bron, but it wont be you. Youve less than three hours air left in that suit. Do you really think you stand a chance of getting out of there alive? "Jaycee, there has to be a way out, for the same reason that there was a way in. All I need is sufficient intelligence to find it in time." he chanced upon a vast transparent tank. It was filled with a liquid whose misty blueness was haunting. His attention caught, he studied it more carefully, noting the myriad pinpoints of light that burned briefly and randomly through the faint haze. Occasionally he detected a slight trail between the flickering events and realized that he was watching an alien analogue of Ander's model of chaos. This was the Rosetta stone that could bridge two completely alien cultures. Its discovery was probably the most potentially important entropic event in history. If he could grasp its use the science of physics would be reborn. He gazed with fascination into the misty field of the fluid, wondering if this were a model of the actual universe and if it operated in realtime. If so -- one of those bright sparks might well represent himself. One particularly bright flare long illuminated a whole corner of the tank, but whether this had significance he would probably never know. He had two-and-a-half hours of air left and no bbvious way to get out. Finding the planet, entering the chamber via the cavern, comprehending the nature of what he had found -- all struck Bron as tests to determine the qualifications of those who sought what the chamber contained. The last test was to get out alive. Since he had passed the others it seemed logical to him that, given the right facilities and the right knowledge, the last was also achievable. Except that here his facilities were nil and his knowledge was precariously slight. This test was perhaps designed to measure the assets of the individual and, with his failing air supply, it carried a barbarous time penalty. The aliens were choosing their successors with meticulous care. He turned away from the tank, confident in the certainty that a way out had to exist. All he had to do was find it. To go back against the stream was ijnpossible. Equally, at a depth of better than three kilometers and with a dwindling supply of air, he had no hope that those he had left on the surface would be able to get down to him in time. Perhaps, after all, this was a one-way disposal unit. Bron! Jaycee's voice came in with a sudden burst of alarm. Whafs Cana doin with his task force? "Exactly what I asked him to, I hope." Antares reports a Destroyer task force in close orbit. Did you order that? "Stay off my back, Jaycee. I've got worries enough as it is." He returned to the study of his problem. The metallic stream moved on beyond the grille and fell smoothly into the bowels of the planet. No escape seemed possible by that route. Bron. A dozen Destroyer heavy cruisers are enterin the solar system and Space Defense reports another fifty on the way. Does Cana reckon on attackin' Terra? Bron ignored her. His searchings had taken him back toward the middle of tlie chamber. The centerIF piece was a broad and featureless pillar rising up to and probably into the solid roof. It was unique among the exhibits in its lack of complexity. In its base was a simple hatch opening internally and the sheer solidity of the tubular walls made him speculate as to what sort of pressures the structure was made to contain. Bron, mil you listen to me, damn you? "I'm listening, Jaycee."  know your brand of chaos. Vd recognize it anywhere. Did you order the destruction of the Antares base? "Not its destruction, Jaycee -- only its capture."  guessed it. But why? "It handles the transfer link. If I have Antares, Terra has lost control over me." You won t get away with it, Bron. This is treason and you cant hope to win. The Stellar Commando will beat Cana clean out of space. "The main Commando fleet Is out with Ananias. Ty telling that to him." T he singular simplicity of the pillar set it radically apart from the rest of the mechanisms and he could see now that its central position made it difficult to miss. The contrasts pointed to its enjoying some significance, the recognition of which transcended any mere differences in physiology or origin of knowledge ;fe w something designed to appeal uniquely to sheer intelligence, however derived. For the first time since he had entered the cavern Bron permitted himself to smile. Damn you! Damn you! Jaycee's vehemence cut like a white-hot knife. Youve got this all sewn up, haven t you? Ananias has taken the Commando fleet so far out into the void that we cant contact it by chance is by transfer link to the Intelligence Radioship -- " -- and Ananias has control of that." Bron finished the sentence for her. "Let's face it, Jaycee, Terran dominance is finished." You re goin to destroy Terra? Her voice rose high with incredulity. "Quite the contrary. I need her -- and the other prime worlds. But in their proper perspective.Not as fumbling imperial powers, but as members of a total union of inhabited planets. It's all part of the agreement between Ananias and Cana. Terra, her Rim Dependencies and the planets of the Destroyer Federation, are going to be welded into one entity. Terra isn't going to like it, but that's the way history has to go. There's too much space to conquer for mankind to be divided." He turned and entered the shaft, examining the hatch. It had a simple pressure device to hold it shut. If there were alien instructions regarding its use, he could not discern them, but he moved now with the blind faith that its function was what logic claimed it to be. He closed the hatch behind him. Immediately a rush of liquid metal swirled about his feet and began to lift and raise him bodily up the shaft. Higher and higher the wave lifted him until he began to think that the shaft was limitless and that by some trick of physics he would continue to rise forever. Only the occasional brush of his suit against the black encasement assured him that he was still moving upward. Bron, Antares has surrendered and landing parties are being set down. That makes you a traitor. Do you know of any reason why I shouldnt press the murder button? "If you feel you want to you'll have to be quick, Jaycee. The first task of that landing party is to destroy the transfer-link aerials. But if you fail -- do you know what's going to happen? I'll be coming back to Terra specifically for you -- and regardless of the cost. I've acquired one hell of an empire, and when the task of running it becomes a little rough -- believe me. I'm going to need all the help I can get. Don't tell me the role of First Lady of the Universe is something that doesn't appeal?" You know what you are, Bron -- you re a Godlost egotistical louse. "I figure that makes us two of a kind, Jaycee. As I begin to recall it, you're sort of damned yourself." Finally there came a change, almost undetectable among the poor sensations that reached inside the suit. Something akin to an instinct warned him that he had reached his destination. Initially nothing appeared to be different. Then, on searching carefully, he noticed faint points of light overhead. In a shock of reorientation he knew that he was looking at the stars. Somewhere, one of those points of light was the galaxy of the Milky Way and he was floating on his back on a flooding rock-pool of liquid metal under the stillness of an alien night. He switched on the suit's radio beacon and, while he waited for the pinnace to arrive, looked about at the starry pointers of his new empire. And a woman's sobbing heard from six hundred thousand parsecs reminded him that he was a creature with human weaknesses as well as special strengths. Somehow nothing was ever going to be quite the same again.  IF UF and I pu Readers write -- and wroni) Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Having read Miss Hilary fVitkins letter' concerning The Mountain Movers in the October If I am obliged to admit that geology is a subject that I know little or nothing about. As a master mariner I am aware that rock is hard and it will put a hole in a ships side. All that is required of me is that I avoid rocks. In extenuation, however, I must say that the driver of the tourist coach in which I traveled to Ayers Rock -- the remarkable granite monolith that gave me the inspiration for the story -- told his passengers that it was an extrusion. He was not a geologist. None of us was a geologist. My own theory, advanced at the time, was that Ayers Rock was a huge meteorite that somehow had survived its passage through the atmosphere intact. This would account for its dissimilarity to Mount Connor, to the east, and to Mount Olga, to the west. Nobody took me seriously. I very much fear that Miss Wit kin wont, either. A. Bertram Chandler Woollahra, A ustralia Dear Editor: The October issue looked promising enough at first glance -- two long novelettes by Keith Laumer and Harry Harrison, two top-flight writers known for their ability to tell a good story, both examples of the kind of action-adventure type of story sf readers are always asking for, both presenting characters the authors have written about before. Both stories, unfortunately, turned out to be disappointing. I have been reading Keith Laumer almost since he first began writing and have enjoyed most of his stories, including the many adventures of Retief However, enough is enough! The AllTogether Planet was a bad novel. Themselves (jointly published sentence beginning on the #th line from the bottom, left colMarch #, should have read: But with every atomic nucleus of plutoniumI # sent to us, our Universe ends up with twenty fewer electrons. I I still admire Laumer when he is at the top of his form as he was in the June issue when you published The Right To RevoltThe Right To Resist, but Retief has led a long and honorable life -- cant he be retired? As for The Stainless Steel Rat Saves The World, it was a shoddy novel written at the bottom of Harrisons form and a complete bore from beginning to end. I have nothing against the well told action type of story, but feeble stories like this only hurt their author s reputations. I hope you are not trying to turn Slippery Jim deGriz into another series character along the lines of James Retief -- if so, please forget them. Patrick Swift Bronx, N. Y. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Although I have been an avid reader of science fiction for many years, my literary abilities incline me more toward poetry than the fictional art form. This being so,  will never be able to enter your forum as a writer but, as a poet,  would like to venture my opinion, in all modesty, of what the condition of the planet earth will be by the year #. Isnt it about time we all realized that the planet earth in the year # will be exactly what we, as Men, made it -- or failed to make it? The winds of our Beings flow once from womb to tomb, and we, as individuals and as a race of beings, have the opportunity to make our mark upon the All. No doubt there are other sentient races in the universe, and no doubt some of them blew themselves to hell and some of them evolved the ethical systems to control technology and are now exploring the universe. Which will be the fate of the race of Men?  believe it could be summed up in one couplet: Alternatives... Forsake ego's ugly guise; Or before the Infinite in ashes lie! Richard Palmer Pittsburgh, Pa. Starting in the next issue of If will be a new two-part serial. The Book of Rack The Healer, by Zach Hughes, a strong newcomer to these pages. It deals with Earth's tomorrows with powerful impact -- and more than touches on poetry in both its prose and content. Subscribers Please Note; Change of address Lazar, Manager, IF Fulfillment Department, # Secatogue Avenue, Farmingdale, N.Y. #. Allov # to # weeks. IF Just Published Lester del Key's first new adult Science Fiction novel in ten years! of Nerves could have conceived this gripping story of a down-to-earth engineer who regards all psychic phenomena as claptrap -- until he discovers, to his horror, that he himself is a born telepath and clairvoyant. Ask your bookseller today for -- the Science Fiction event of the year. # # Madison Avenue, New York, N. Y. # What is it? A black dot, circle, sphere, neutron, eye pupil, tunnel opening, planet, hole, cosmos ? Depending on your perspective, knowledge, imagination, the answer can be simple or complex, commonplace or extraordinary, definite or infinite. We'd like to introduce you to some uniquely gifted authors who have created an exciting, mind-stretching literature. Writers who can look at a dot or a pebble and see a universe of sub-atomic particles. Who can speculate on the incredible number of interdependent cells that make up a human body and envision whole planetary life forms interconnected the same way. Who forecast things like nuclear power, supersonic jets, computers, space probes, and moon walks long before they happened. Science Fiction authors are writing tomorrow's history today. Just will bring you any three books described on this page. With them comes your enrollment in The Science Fiction Book Club, the frontier of the future. Join today. The coupon tells how. with trial membership Science Fiction Book Club #-S#A Dept. AL-#, Garden City, N.Y. # Please accept my application for membership in the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the # books whose numbers I have written in the boxes below. Bill me Just lOi (to help cover shipping) for all #. About every # weeks, send me the club's bulletin, Things to Come, describing the # coming Selections and a variety of Alternate choices. If I wish to receive both Selections, I need do nothing; they will be shipped to me automatically. Whenever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an Alternate, or no book at all, I will notify you by the date specified by returning the convenient form always provided. I need take only # Selections or Alternates during the coming year, and may resign any time thereafter. Most books are only #, plus a modest charge for shipping and handling. Occasionally, extravalue Selections are slightly higher. return the entire introductory package within # days. Membership will be canceled. I owe nothing. Mr. Mrs. Miss Print name City Zip If under #, parent must sign above. I Office use only #. The Hugo Winners, Vol. I  II. Giant #ln-I volume of # award-winning stories. # to #. Asimov introduces each. Pub. ed. # #. The Wrong End of Time by John Brunner. Hugo Awardwinner spins breathtaking tale of Russian discovery that superior life in solar system is about to destroy Earth. Pub. # T #. Childhood' End by Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth. "Wildly fanta.stic!" -- Atlantic. Pub. ed # #. World's Best Science Fiction #. Wollheim and Carr, Eds. # extraordinary stories by famous writers in annual anthology. #. Dune by Frank Herbert. Celebrated winner of Hugo and Nebula. Gripping tale of family exiled from their private planet to another, a barren desert. Pub. ed. # #. The Foundation Trilogy by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. # #. Stranger in a Strange Land by Robert A. Heinlein. He knew the Martian love secret -- and it spelled his doom. Pub. ed. # #. Can You Feel Anything When I Do This? by Robert Sheckley. # bizarre glimpses into the future, including a wildly different ed. # #. The Ice People by Rene Barjavel. Great French bestseller, prize winning novel of discovery of prehistoric man and woman, who come to life! Pub. ed. # #. Alone Against Tomorrow by Harlan Ellison. The field's most honored writer plunges Into # dark dreams of tomorrow's alienation. Pub. ed. # #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # '"winners." chosen by Sci-Fi Writers of Americk. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. # #. A Treasury of Great Science Fiction, e d . by Anthony Boucher. # Volume set. # pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they, are full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in Canada. Through Time  Space with Journey to the f or gotten world of Blandings Castle in #! Sample the mysterious chemicals that passed for liquor in Prohibition New York! agents ) of Hollywood in the Harlow era! The far side of the moon is more familiar now than the golden universe of enchantment created by P. G. Wodehouse in more than # years of writing. We've reprinted six of his best -- with such famous characters as Jeeves, Bertie Wooster, Lord Emsworth, Psmith, and a clutch of aunts as fearsome as any shoggoths. Any paperback bookstore that is a paperback bookstore will have them. If you can't get all you want, try the coupon below. # West # Street, New York. N.Y. #I I Please send me the P. G. Wodehouse titles checked, at # each (#tf  .V postage and handling). I enclose my check or money order for  (Do not send cash through mail.) li I An lntet Publisher An informal history of liquid rocket propellants Foreword by Isaac Asimov "Read this book... you'll get a glimpse of the heroic excitement that seemed to make it reasonable to cuddle with death every waking moment -- to say nothing of learning a heck of a lot about the way in which the business of science is really conducted." -- Isaac Asimov Ignition! takes you inside the world of scientific research -- a dangerous, exciting, sometimes very funny place indeed. John D. Clark, in charge of liquid propellant development at the Picatinny Arsenal for some # years, gives a first hand account of the dedicated men who survived explosions, smelly test tubes and one or two wars in order to put men on the moon. "The only clear story of one of the high moments of scientific research... as good a job of reporting on a difficult field as I can remember and far funnier at times than most ." -- Lester del Rey # To your bookstore or Rutgers University Press, Dept. IF # # College Avenue  New Brunswick, N. J. # I enclose check or money order for #. Rutgers pays all costs of postage and shipping. Name Address. City. StateZip JulyAugust # Vol.#.No.# Issue #I Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Donald H. Menzel, Science Editor JudyLynn Benjamin, Managing Editor L. C. Murphy, Subscription Director Theodore Sturgeon, Contributing Editor Lester del Rey, Feature Editor Jay Tunick, Circulation Director Arnold E. Abramson, Publisher Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation. Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main Offices: # East # Street, New York, N Y. #. Single copy: #. #-issue subscription: # in U.S., # elsewhere. Kingdom by Universal-Tandem Publishing Company, Ltd., # Gloucester Road. London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson, Chairman of the Board. Ralph Stokes, Managing Director. Single copy: #p. #-issue subscription in the United Kingdom: #. American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. Second class postage paid at flew York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. The publishers assume no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in U.S.A. Science and Public Affairs such areas as: with respect to: cinating articles by today's foremost scientists, in language any intelligent reader can understand! The Bulletin Clock Symbolizing the threat of nuclear doomsday, it stands now at ten minutes to midnight! (A Journal of Science and Public Affairs) Enclosed please find remittance for my subscription as checked below.  I year, #  # years, #  # years, # X)# (The regular single-copy price of the Bulletin is I .#) The above subscription rates apply to the United States and Canada. For Pan-America, add #c per year. For other foreign, add I .# per year. The United States Postal Service, now a semi-independent governmental corporation, recently indollars. And that's just the beginning. In its new budget, the Postal Service is asking for an additional # Included is an increase in magazine and newspaper rates of # over the next five years -- starting with a # increase this year. And with no reasonable prospect of any improvement in service to you. Despite the President's efforts to curb inflation by means of his # price and wage stabilization program, the Postal Service pursues this irresponsible plan for enormous rate increases -- both immediate and future. Where is the logic in achieving success on some fronts while permitting the Postal Service to touch off roaring inflation in its own area? The contemplated postal increases, of course, would start an inevitable inflationary chain-reaction. Unable to absorb the higher costs, publishers would be obliged to pass on a portion of them to the public -- and to advertisers who in turn would have to pass on the increases to consumers of their goods. Directly or indirectly, it will be you who pays ! So we earnestly appeal to the President, to Congress and to you, the readers of Worlds of IF, to hold the line on postal-rate increases for at least three compelling reasons: #. To deter the general inflation threatening all of us -- man , woman and child. #. To protect yourself, specifically, from inflationary pressures on advertised products that you buy. #. To keep costs at a level permitting the free press of America to survive. We feel that our position is reasonable. We hope that you agree and will write your Congressman accordingly. It would please us to have a copy of your letter. Just published;   at all booksellers now i ,m y ,' : ' vV A . ' , V X it'; KAjftn Is Earth disposable? Is man infinitely adaptable? I F OR the pleasure of Deepsoft the Keeper, the arching dome of her chamber was drawn to a thinness that admitted the dayglow. Yellowish outside light filtered through the membranous shell, purpled as the end of the sun circle lifted clouds of settled gases from dank, dark valleys and swirled them, noxious, heavy, to thicken the atmosphere. Shifting light attracted Deepsoft's wide, pink eyes. Her heavy head lifted, nodded, jerked. Her long-fingered hands plucked at her coverlet. Her legs moved with an awkward lack of coordination. She made a wet sound of pleasure as winds aloft swirled thick masses and the dome glowed russet for a long, long period. The coverlet, made of the same material used in the construction of the dome, her sleeprack and the one chair That completed the furnishings of the chamber, bunched up and exposed the lower segment of her nude body. Her feet kicked aimlessly, contacted the warm, soft, smooth wall. She flexed her legs and her body inched toward the edge of the rack. Her brain registered the sensations: shifting light, smoothness on the soles of her feet, warmth, comfort, the flex of the coverlet under her fingers. She lifted her head on a wobbly neck, made the pleasure sounds. Time was meaningless. As her movements jostled her full stomach she burped wetly. A trickle ran from her full lips down her wide chin. Overhead the cooling masses of polar air caused condensed moisture to fall in huge, fat drops to splatter on the dome. She clucked in delight. One long arm lifted, reached up as if to touch the splat-splat sounds. The light purpled, changing the shadows on her face. Her mood changed with the light, her face twisting. She made an explosive, complaining sound between her lips, her brain now registering discomfort. She needed. Her entire consciousness sent out the need and it was urgent. To avoid a messy task, Red Earth the Far Seer left his contemplation in the adjoining chamber to tend her. She was momentarily distracted from her need in an amusing effort to stand, supported by Red Earth. Her legs were rubbery in spite of their firm tone. He held her and sent soothing things to her as he positioned her, held her there s listened, although his smooth knob of a head had no ears, as she completed the basic function and then tried to thrust one of her long-fingered, graceful hands between her spread legs to feel the results. "Negative, negative," he sent, slapping her hand lightly. He gave no pain. Giving pain was not in his nature. Had it been, the giving of it would have taught no lesson. IF would have registered as a meaningless hurt having no connection with her innocent desire to experience sensation by thrusting her hand into warmth. He cleaned her, feeling pleasure. She was rounded, full. Deepsoft. Her name. Had he not been roused from deep contemplation he would have stayed with her. He put her into the sleeprack, raised the protective siding. Night was near. The siding was of the smooth, transparent material of the dome and her hands felt it, flexed it. His own hands partook of pleasure as they caressed her, touched her white, rounded face. She made little pleasure sounds and reached for his hand with uncoordinated fingers. Her body moved. In contrast to the awkwardness of her legs, her hands, her body made a sultry entity. Her mid-section lifted in inviting rhythm. Undecided, he examined her. His bulky, tough-skinned, bare knob did not move -- he had no eyes to follow her length, no ears to hear her sounds. But his hands knew her long, firm legs, around and white. His hands caressed the firmness of her chest bulges. His senses traced her and measured her, and she stopped her movements as his hand teased, pressed. Her pink eyes moved with the shifting light patterns, but her body was frozen by sensation as his fingers pleased her. Then the momentary diversion was over and he was gone. Her eyes, wide" to gather the fading light, rolled erratically. masses in the end-of-the-suncircle storms isolated the halfglobe of the establishment of Red Earth the Far Seer. Stagnant gases made the dim distances seem vast as visibility was reduced. Lightsensing organs could not penetrate even as far to the north as the beginnings of the plains of glass. Only the senses of one such as Red Earth could detect the great river to the west, the high escarpment. Only Red Earth, in his establishment, could read the density of concentrated gases in the rift valley to the south, could penetrate the toxic denseness to see the motionless, heavy, oozing, misshapen vegetation on the valley floor. He saw all. He saw the shift of frequency, but Deepsoft's inferior light-sensing organs saw the shift of color. Red Earth mused in his sanctuary. He measured idly, read the survival factor outside, found it at its usual end-of-the-sun-circle low. He could feel the shift of breathable air, mourn the stagnant poison buildup. He could feel the rise in temperature when a particular denseness passed and the far sun sent its dying rays through the eternal haze; he could shiver internally as the cooler polar masses continued to move south and east. In his moment of idle musing he was not totally idle, for he searched his area of responsibility -- it registered normal. In scattered establishments his people were shut away from the toxic storms, comfortable with their carefully nurtured hoards of air-making Breathers. During his rounds he passed a casual greeting with his coresponsor, Growing Tree, who did not pause, using only a small amount of energy to answer, as he tended a colony of Juicers at the Eastern Group Establishment. It was a moment of peace, if one could ignore the storm, the steadily lessening purity of the outside. It was thus and ever thus, and those who cried disaster when the storms blew had cried disaster before. A Power Giver soared high above the roiling clouds. Red Earth did not bother to establish contact or to ascertain identity. Power Givers were notoriously capricious. The flight, of course, was a shameful waste, but it was her own energies and substance the Power Giver was consuming. If one fulfilled one's responsibilities, one's actions were one's own. The law covered even Power Givers. Yet he was vaguely disturbed by the waste and sought to forget, sending his attentions elsewhere to watch two young Healers at the mid-point of their learning. They were moving outside, using stored life for long periods, unable to utilize the air with its high toxic content, lungs holding, gills pumping out poisons. A Webber had escaped an establishment adjacent to the Eastern Group Establishment. Red Earth watched anxiously until the two youngsters, moving slowly but efficiently not wasting life or force, herded the weakening Webber back to her kind in the enclosure. She would survive. food-making continued with pleasing steadiness. And -- more exciting -- a rare joining was in process. Without prying openly, Red Earth took satisfaction in the beautiful act. He lifted his feelings, to the toxic sky and, although there was no movement of his bare knob of a head, the effect was a nod of blessing and pleasure. A new life was being created. Mixed thoughts. Burdens. Pleasures. Far Seers were accustomed to the burdens, having long since become resigned to responsibility. Pleasure was always welcome. Deepsoft. The burdens were not without their rewards. Deepsoft. That he himself would never know the crowning glory of the act -- creation -- was unimportant. He felt no jealousy for the Healer engaged in joining, in the creation of life. It was the nature of things. In return, Healers and Power Givers held no envy for his ability to achieve the IF pleasure of the act repeatedly, rather than the once -- or at the most, twice -- allowed the breeding classes. Nature simply gave him pleasure to compensate for his inability to create life -- that she limited the fertile ones was beautifully logical. A dying planet was capable of supporting only so many -- and that mysterious force which governed life allowed the Healers and the Power Givers one or two unions. During those, given the proper conditions, a new individual was created. In a way he could pity them. Deepsoft. They accepted his valor without scorn but thought it fearful indulgence. The situation was amusing...sort of. Power Givers could squander their precious substance in meaningless soarings above the toxic clouds, seeking the simple joys of seeing without being hampered by clouds of dense gases and of breathing the thin wisps of pure air. Healers could ramble aimlessly. Each had his duty and if it were performed Red Earth and Growing Tree and others like them would see to the survival of all. The storms would pass. Noxious, heavy gases would settle into the valleys. Then even one so fragile as Deepsoft could bask in the glow of the filtered sun. Life would go on under the high douds of summer. The new joining on the eastern sea would produce -- what? Hopefully, a Far Seer. Growing Tree's logically anticipated sun circles made a shorter and shorter picture. Would it be a Far Seer? Red Earth swept his area. Power Giver? Perhaps. Always useful. Healer? Keeper? Ah, or -- perhaps, just perhaps -- the long awaited New One. That hope. Red Earth knew, was pure indulgence. Nature and nature alone could anticipate the need for a New One. He, in his limited wisdom, could not dare to imagine the needs. The need was dictated by the planet and by the elemental but mysterious necessity to seed and maintain life. Still, he allowed himself the indulgence. The New One. Would he eat the poisonous leafy things? Breathe the toxic vapors? Be warmed rather than damaged by the projectiles shot down through the perpetual haze by the sun? Only nature would know. Only that force could measure and tell, but when it happened, as it inevitably would, then he, the Far Seer, he and all the rest -- the Keepers, the Power Givers and the Healers -- would be the Old Ones and life would continue even as the timeless movements of the planet brought new sun circles and the globe spun and swam and the giant flares of the sun -- itself deadly and of unbelievable magnitude -- tried their worst to return the planet to primordial emptiness. It was a comfort to believe. He still was not idle, despite his roaming thoughts. He recorded the rise of the planet's satellite to the east, his sense bouncing there and back with a noticeable lag. He felt the solidity there, probed the depth of the craters. He tried -- unsuccessfully, of course -- to measure the breathable air there, to search for life-giving water and symbiotic Breathers. Failing, he sensed the sister worlds circling the sun, other planets unseen by any save the Far Seers -- he probed, sensed, measured, recorded. F OR his records, Red Earth sent his mind into the adjoining chamber, and the plucking fingers of the female, Deepsoft, became still. Into the vast storehouse of her brain went his observations: the rise of the satellite, the noted moment of the eastern joining, the positions of the sister worlds, the flare activity of the sun. All was sent, recorded, read back. Deepsoft lay very still. He was pleased. This far to go -- he recorded a picture, a concept -- in the sun circle and then would come the movement of air masses from the south and a time of beginning, a time of renewed hope. He had seen beginnings. He had never failed to anticipate each new one. Moreover, he had never lost hope even when his measurements and the readings of other Far Seers had given no hope. He had soared on the force of a Power Giver to hover over the vast waters of the south, had seen the sea of slime, had measured the hope that grew there in the natural breeding ground of the Breathers. Once -- and he checked the store of knowledge in his Keeper's brain to study the concept of many sun circles past -- he had actually measured an increase. The green slime of the next sun circle had been dense, but it had been long ago. Now there was again that terrible decline and the murky, heavy seas were vast, stretching far away from the tiny area in the south where currents, winds -- something -- allowed a frighteningly small colony of Breathers to survive. To think end was defeat. Nature would not allow defeat. A world could not exist just to exist. A world was solidity, reality, and to comprehend the solidity and the reality a thinking brain was required. To envision a world without life was to ignore the basic purpose of all creation. No, the Breathers would adapt, would live atop the thick, heavy water. Life would go on. And some day the New One would be bom and then this dying, depleted planet would be squeezed of its last remaining resources and dynamic life would spring exuberantly upward. So thought Red Earth the Far Seer, slumped into his rack, huge chest moving only occasionally, red gills lying idle, since the pure air of the establishment offered no poison. Around him he sensed the small movements of the Breathers in their enclosures lining the walls IF -- eating, growing, breeding, using their small, strange bodies, half plant, half insect, to return to the air the life-giving particles which, in turn, found their way into Red Earth's system. In the night no star shone. The satellite, unseen by light-sensing organs, climbed, moving in Red Earth's senses. He did not stir until the satellite was at the zenith. When he moved his huge chest cavity swelled. He advanced to Deepsoft's chamber on thin, short legs which extended from small hips below a flat belly and the huge, bulbous mass of his chest. His hide was thick, deep gray. His shoulders tapered upward, neckless, to his fat-tipped, cone-shaped bare head in which there were two orifices, the small, rounded feeding mouth and the hairy maw of his breather. On the side of the cone, low, next to his tapering shoulders, his gill slits opened, exhaled the last of his body poison, cleansing his lungs for the extended period of nonbreathing. Deepsoft fed on the broth of life, the universal energy concentrate distilled at the Eastern Group Establishment from the green slime source of the sea. Fed, she seized one of Red Earth's fingers. He lowered the protective railing, joined her. She made sounds of pleasure and Red Earth blanked his thoughts, yielding to enjoyment as she cooed to' his givings of sensation. II Rack the Healer was given his free time as the end-of-the-suncircle storms moved down from the cool north. Growing Tree the Far Seer, as was his responsibility, assigned a Power Giver to transport Rack to his home area. The trip was made mostly in courteous silence, back to back. In preparation Rack breathed deeply, voided his gill sacks of rejected vapors, closed off and used stored air until, high, high, the roiling, perpetual clouds a blanket of color below them, the Power Giver sent a thoughtful picture and Rack was allowed the rare pleasure of seeking nontoxic air. His huge chest heaved as his lungs breathed the thin but delicious mixture. His pleasure communicated to the Power Giver and she laughed. Above them the sun was a deadly furnace, taking its toll. Rack's large scales tingled, made an audible clattering noise as they rose to form small deflection areas. He knew that the hide of the Power Giver was being penetrated and he was momentarily saddened. Yet it was the nature of things. He would be the last to suggest to the freedom-loving Power Giver that she confine her flight to lower levels, where the thick atmosphere would shield her relatively fragile hody from the deadly projectiles. Had he been born differently he would have done as she, for the exultation of being able to soar above the heavy gases, of being able to see and to smell the thin, pure air, was, he suspected, ample compensation. All life was eventually ended, all life was relative and the price of pleasure was death. Still he had always found it sobering, in his rare transports inside the power field of one of these fragile, beautiful beings, to feel her depleting her very substance to obtain the energy needed to lock her unique abilities into the planet's magnetic field and negate the pull from below, to rise without sound and soar far above the curve of the planet. Grateful, he bowed as she landed him near his establishment in the area of Red Earth the Far Seer. She was away with a joyous leap, relieved of his mass, fading quickly into the purpling air. She would need to seek rest and protection soon, for the yellow haze of toxicity was on the move. Inside his establishment he found things as he had left them at the beginning of the summer when he had gone to consummate his duty as a gatherer of the slime source, the pulpy plants growing on the floor of the shallow, inshore seas. He vented the accumulated poisons from his gills and breathed the clean, rich air. In his absence the Breathers had literally overloaded the dome with good air and it was sheer luxury to fall heavily into his rack and feel life being pumped into all his storage cells as he worked his huge chest like a bellows, breathing with sheer extravagance. He slept long and peacefully and awoke to take his fill of the broth. He stretched his long, agile legs, gaped, took in huge lungfuls of his rich air, made an audible sound of pleasure. H IS Breathers were healthy and producing happily. In his absence, of course, they had been regularly monitored by Red Earth the Far Seer, but Rack made the check anyhow. He found the feeding channels to the outside to be slightly corroded and cleaned them carefully. Finished with that task, he carefully cleaned the entry port and lock and was immediately bored when his housecleaning was done. Healers were, in general, a restless lot. As a youth Rack had caused considerable concern among his teachers by exhibiting a startling lack of direction, ambition. It had taken him long to outgrow the derogatory connotations of his name, a picture assigned to him by his mother because he had seemed content to spend all his time in the sleeprack, his mind in contact with any available Keeper, idly probing into the accumulated lore of the race. If he had been interested in IF knowledge for the sake of learning rather than for its entertainment value, his teachers had argued, his constant Keeper contact would have been justified. But he had been unimpressed by dry facts about the positions of the sister worlds, about survival factors, about the state of the native Breather population in the southern seas. Instead he had delved deeply into the mind banks of the oldest Keepers, wanting to hear the ancient lore regarding the origin of the race, asking stupid questions about the Old Ones. Once he had precipitated a crisis by tying up the minds of three Keepers at once with questions regarding reported findings of hard-material nuggets. Red Earth had discovered himself unable to record observations because Rack had been monopolizing the Far Seer's personal Keeper and, monitoring the contact, R.ed Earth had been chagrined to discover the young Healer seriously interested in trying to gather enough information to make it possible for him to amass a personal hoard of hard-material nuggets. To Red Earth, this was the foulest waste of time. Hard-material nuggets were interesting and had often led to speculative, idle discussions regarding the talents and abilities of the Old Ones. But the nugget stuff was totally useless. It was true that in the lands across the eastern sea hardmaterial nuggets were used as rewards for services rendered gladly on the western continent by dutydriven citizens. But there were many strange things about those who inhabited the land beyond the sea. Since contact was rare, the trip across the vast waters being too long and strenuous for even the strongest Power Giver to make without suffering serious bodily damage. Red tarth didn't care what the strange-minded citizens across the sea did. He simply did not want to see his area become involved in useless accumulations of valueless objects. He had reprimanded Rack the Healer severely, had recommended an educational period of gathering fresh slimesource plants from the chill waters of the far north -- and had been pleased to find that Rack was matured when he returned. On only one other occasion had Rack incurred the displeasure of the Far Seers. In his first tour out of the Eastern Group Establishment, his work output had been seriously low on certain days. Red Earth had discovered that once again Rack had been asking questions -- using the storage mind of Growing Tree's Keeper -- about the Old Ones and in particular about the sunken city of Nar. Where Rack had found that particular bit of folk legend had been a puzzle to Red Earth, for all such useless bits of pseudoinformation had long before been erased from the mind banks. Perhaps Rack had discovered it hidden in some Keeper's mind where it had been filed out of context -- and he had searched for the nonexistent sunken city to the detriment of his slime-source quota. Earth had tried to impress Rack with concepts of responsibility, duty to the race, the sacred value of life and the need to bend every effort toward survival. Too long had the Far Seers been alone in the knowledge that life on the planet was precarious at best. At first Red Earth had thought that Rack's inquiring mind was receptive. Rack had listened carefully to Red Earth's summary of conditions, had agreed that one should not waste one's energies in chasing the ghosts of the Old Ones but should, instead, send his intelligence searching for ways, however small, of improving conditions. "We are the results of -- " a picture of sun circles so numerous that Rack's Healer's mind had not been capable of seeing the whole -- "of evolution," Red Earth had told him. "We, Healers, Keepers, Far Seers, Power Givers, are the logical results of life, the end results to this time. Nature, in her wisdom, has created in us the ability to cope with the problems of a dying planet, but she has not made the task an easy one. It is up to us, all of us, to help as we await her next move." Such talk did indeed interest Rack. He was, after all, involved with life. But something in him continued to question. Was the ultimate pleasure service to one's race? If so, why did every Far Seer have at least one Keeper? Not solely for the purpose of using the blank portion of the Keeper's mind to store information. No. One could spy and see the Far Seers lost in their own pleasure, using the bodies of the Keepers. It was a pleasure alien to the nature of a Healer, of course, but it was pleasure and it was indulged with an amusing regularity. To a Keeper curiosity was the source of pleasure and, as he matured and grew older, Rack reasoned -- correctly, for he was never reprimanded when he did his duty and saved the satisfaction of his curiosity for his free time -- that he was as much entitled to pleasureas Red Earth was. So he filled his mind with the dim legends of the Old Ones. During his free periods he engaged in what the Far Seers looked on as Healer weakness, rambling on his long, mobile legs over the wide, empty space of the area. His ability to heal the damage he suffered from the hard projectiles and the toxic gases gave him mobility. His curiosity and his wanderlust sent him to the thin frost of the far north, IF to the steamy heat of the middle regions, to the waters of the west. He scaled mountains on the way, crossed a great river and climbed the broken face of the rift to the west of the river. In a box made of The Material, treasured, hoarded, were the results of his travels -- two hard-material nuggets, one the size of his thumb ball, the other tiny. The large one was heavy in his palm, irregularly shaped. It could be scratched with a sharp, extra hard piece of The Material and it held an endless fascination for Rack. The smaller nugget was fast being eaten -- even in the protective atmosphere of the establishment it accumulated brown waste on itself from time to time and, when cleaned, became smaller. But Red Earth was mistaken in thinking that Rack's interest in the hard-material nuggets was to be judged simply as a desire to accumulate objects possessing a certain rarity. To Rack the nuggets did not represent riches, as they did to citizens of the eastern lands. For Rack the nuggets held a dark mystery. trated in his pursuit of knowledge regarding the Old Ones. There were the dim old legends, retained for their esthetic values, looked upon by the Far Seers as a part of the culture, saved for the picturesque beauty of the early thoughts of the first Healers. The thoughts of Rose the Healer had been preserved from deep antiquity. Ah, how they rang, coming from the still, peaceful, childlike mind of an aging Keeper in the moist, steamy land beside the southern sea: And when the sun flared up, searing the Old Ones, vast clouds of smoke and particles covered the sky. And the Old Ones died, fornicating even in death, to give birth to the New Ones who had scales. "Negative, negative," sent his teachers. "It is the thought of Rose the Healer," Rack protested. "He speaks in symbols," said the teachers, "for the process of evolution moved on minute legs, crawling forward through -- " a vast series of sun cycles -- "to meet the slowly deteriorating conditions." "And yet," Rack argued, "Rose the Healer said that the sun flared up and killed the Old Ones suddenly." "It is against logic," said the teachers. "For have we not observed the sun for -- " another of those bewildering, long series of sun circle pictures -- "and has it not been stable?" "How do you explain this, then?" And there were others which had tails and died birthing , and those with malformed features and stomachs without vital organs. "We know little," they admitted, "for the Old Ones had no Keepers and all their store of knowledge, however insignificant, has been lost. We can only presume that such a race, with none of the advantages of civilization, with no kept records, existed on the plenty of a youthful planet, feeding and breathing the bounty of nature. There are also legends of other things, living things. And yet we find no proof. Surely, had the Old Ones built we would find remnants of their achievements, for is not The Material everlasting, resisting the acids of the air, the smoke of the burning earth of the southern lands?" "Could they have built of the hard materials?" "Negative, negative," they sent. "You have traveled far. You have talked with many Healers who have nuggets -- and yet, have you found the source of the hard material? Is it conceivable that there was once a life form on the planet capable of producing such a lifeless material? Could you possibly think that enough of the hard material could be amassed to construct even one establishment?" "But there is more than one type," Rack said. "I have seen yellow and white, dark and light. Some nuggets feed on themselves with dark waste while others, such as my large one, grow only a white, powdery waste when exposed to the yellow of the air." "Another proof," said the teachers, for the hard material was indeed fragile. "It feeds on itself. In -- " a short span of sun circles -- "an establishment made of your hard material would be reduced." "Perhaps," Rack said, his heart beating with excitement, for he was being daring, "the hard material came from the bowels of the planet." He received warning vibrations, for he was treading on dangerous ground. But he plunged on. "Perhaps the Old Ones penetrated the surface?" There was sadness in the answer, not anger. "It is conceivable. For the Old Ones died, did they not?" In truth, the Old Ones had died and left behind old legends and nothing more. In the final days , said Rose the Healer, the bodies of the Old Ones covered the Earth. So were the thoughts of Rose the Healer marred by impossible statements, making the total credence of his thoughts less than reliable, for no planet, however young and fruitful, could support so much life. Seers had not erased the old thoughts. If only they had been saved, not just the beautiful thoughts of Rose the Healer -- and what a delightful concept was just his name, evoking a confused mental image of something delicate and bright and beautiful. But only Rose was whole in the minds of IF the Keepers, along with an occasional misfiled tidbit which, when discovered, excited Rack wildly. He had found mention of a sunken city in the mind of a northern Keeper, a city in the eastern sea, huge, tall, towering to the sky. The reference had been filed -- listing an unknown Healer as the source far back in antiquity -- with the readings of air purity at the tops of various mountains. A Far Seer of the past had been speculating on the amount of The Material it would take to build a tower to project above the eternal toxicity, to reach into pure, thin air. And to the west, on the western sea, a group of Healers told of another city of the Old Ones -- source of the information again unknown -- a city that spread over what was now the plains of glass in Red Earth's area beside the great river. There was even a name for the lost city, a name difficult to see, for it suggested no known image. "Could it be," Rack had asked, upon hearing the name, "that the Old Ones truly knew civilization and constructed establishments?" "I think," said a young, visionary Healer, "that question is answered by the picture of city." He had not considered the possibility. City. A group of establishments. Nothing existed on the whole continent to keep the picture in the language, yet it persisted, appearing in the mind of a northern Keeper, appearing again in the conversation of these Healers, who had picked it up from older Healers, who had received it from some Keeper. On all the continent the Eastern Group Establishment was the largest concentration of The Material known and at peak production periods in the summer it was peopled by -- the picture showed Power Givers in a grouping equal to the number of Rack's left hand digits, a paired group of Far Seers, Healers swimming and diving, rockweighted to sink into the thick water, all making a group comparable to all the digits on his hands and homy feet. The word, the picture, city , was Old One language. It had meaning. The name of the lost city on the huge river had no meaning, gave no image. It was an abstract thing, difficult to grasp. Another Old One word? I N his learning, the teachers had brushed past the Old Ones. Ancient man was primitive, living on the fat of the young planet. He was ignorant of the process of combining the products of the Juicers and the Webbers to form The Material, thus uncivilized. Ancient man had no recorded history because of his lack of Keepers. Ancient man lacked the ability of the Power Givers and was thus immobile, confined to the distances he could cover with his feet and legs. In short, ancient man was joined to the race, the ultimate product of evolution, by a weak racial link and his achievements could not have been great. Ancient man, said the teachers, was probably less intelligent than a Webber, but perhaps more intelligent than the front mind of a Keeper, who was unable to experience anything save basic sensations. To think that ancient man had built was folly. To attribute the hard materials to ancient man was incredible, for without tools of The Material, how could ancient man work the hard materials into any form? No. The hard materials, used by some mystics in the Healer ranks to form a mystery about ancient man, were of natural origin. Perhaps, since they were of such scarcity, they had fallen from the sky, for Far Seer probes indicated the presence of small bodies of solid material -- other than the satellite, the sun and the sister planets and the far suns -- which, to the most sensitive Far Seer appeared as tiny motes in a vast area. "Be content," said the teachers, "with the wisdom of the race, for we are old. Be proud of our achievements, for we have conquered a hostile world with only the weapons given us by nature, our minds. Contemplate the wonder of the invention of The Material by Dawn Eye the Far Seer. For is it not astounding that he could envision the domestication of the vicious Webber with her sting of death? Is it not wonderful that he could milk the Fiery Juicer and, working at the risk of death, Fiery pain, disFigurement, combine the liquid Fire of the Juicer with the film of the Webber to protect us from the hostile elements? Wonder at the power of evolution, that it produces four distinct human forms to live in peace together, to work mind in mind to ensure the survival of life. For none could live alone. Be proud of your ability to heal, to spend extended periods in the vapors and the corrosive sea. Without them, without your ability to gather the slime source, what would be our nourishment? Be thankful for the Keepers, who store our knowledge and make us civilized. Praise the Power Givers who turn the vats that brew the broth, separating the deadly substances from the life-giving ones." Modestly the teachers did not praise themselves, the Far Seers, the accumulators of knowledge, the overseers of society, the backbone of reason. The Far Seers, who were sterile, never seeing the beauty of a swirling purple storm, who watched over the lower life forms, measured the Breathers, milked the deadly Juicers, tamed the Fierce Webber. to give wonder. It proved the wisdom of nature, the infallibility of her scheme to sustain life in an IF atmosphere that ate a nugget of hard metal in less than a sun circle. Rack was not discontent. After he gained maturity he took pride in his ability to gather more slime source than any other young Healer. He gloried in his strength, his huge, billowing lungs which could store enough air to outlast the most severe end-of-circle storm, his wonderful healing cells which replaced themselves when damaged by hard projectiles or acid gases. There was much in his world to arouse his curiosity and he made his contributions to the knowledge of the race by feeding his observations into the blank mind of a Keeper after his free-time exploration trips. He was recognized as an authority on the uninhabited vastness of the area of responsibility of Red Earth the Far Seer and was often consulted. He had come a long way from being the feckless young rack-lover who had caused frowns of concern among his teachers. In the prime of his physical strength he was tall and had a chest thickness equal to half his height. His scales were healthy, showing no damage from all his wanderings. When he raised his protective eyefilms in the safety of his establishment his pupils glowed with a bright blue light and glittered with a love of life that was contagious. He was considerate, never venting his gills in the vicinity of an establishment, much less when in view of another being. He was generous with his time, always ture out for an extended period in the service of anyone who needed such service. He asked no return save, at times, a period of conversation, lying on his rack, breathing his sweet, Breather-produced air, comparing knowledge with a Far Seer, gossiping with a fellow Healer, being polite and respectful to a friendly Power Giver. At such times he projected over the distances between establishments a completely relaxed and totally likable personality. There were those among the young Power Givers who contacted him regularly, with an eye toward detecting a hint that Rack was being readied by nature for a joining. They were continually disappointed and Power Giver after Power Giver, feeling the approach of her own time, had to search elsewhere, for Rack's gray scale covering on his lower abdomen remained rigid, showing no tint of the tell-tale red that spoke of readiness. Ill are, I see," said Red JL Earth the Far Seer from his sanctuary, his mind engaged with Rack's, "preparing." "Affirmative." "A group of Breathers is overworking." "I have seen and am content with what I have stored," Rack said. "They will have ample time to recover in my absence." "Is it polite to inquire?" Laughter. Red Earth was an old friend and teacher. "When were you concerned about being polite?" He had spent the time storing. His body weight was up. His chest was expanded to bursting. All his cells were alive, fattened with precious air. "West," he sent to Red Earth. "To the river and the rift." "In search of hard-material nuggets?" "In search." He sensed a regret on Red Earth's part and knew that it was caused by the frugal nature of the Far Seer, begrudging him the waste of his energies in his own pursuits. He sent a hint of reproach, with a vivid picture of Red Earth with his Keeper, and got a chuckle in return. "Beautiful Wings the Power Giver will be alert to your needs." "I thank you." He liked the picture Red Earth sent, but was not familiar with the subject. "She is newly mature, assigned to the west of the area." "Daughter of old Northern Ice the Healer? I knew her when she was, a child." "The same. She is no longer a child." Chuckle. "And speaking of maturity, I note that your tint is the same." Rack did not like speaking of such matters. He closed his mind. "Could it be arranged, a joining there would be a propitious event." Joining was a matter of nature's design and of personal choice. Rack told Red Earth so and was acknowledged, but the hurt in the Far Seer's mind softened Rack and he sent soothing things, along with the rational conclusion that if Beautiful Wings were indeed newly mature his readiness would probably not match hers. Red Earth agreed with a sigh. "I will, of course, check." Red Earth said. "For that I am grateful." End. he moved, freshly charged, walking with a distance-eating gait over the bare bones of the planet, hard rock underfoot, scales tingling as the low spots sent projectiles against him, cells dying and reforming even as he went, lungs closed as heavy clouds passed, gills venting poison, lungs taking only the scattered particles of life from the noxious mixture. He knew long periods of nonbreathing between high spots, which held a hint of life in the air to help him keep from utilizing his vital store in the cells of his body. There was a wild beauty in the outside. The constant swirl of heavy gases, the changes of light. The feeling of being alone. Far off he could sense an establishment. IF closed tightly, inhabited by an old Healer whose venturesome soul was now confined to a body unable to withstand the rigors of the outside. Ahead of Rack stretched wilderness, vast, empty. He alone was life, moving through sterile spaces, the clouds eddying about him, the sun filtering down, now a glow, now only a hint of color, never visible as a spot, a round source of heat as he knew it to be -- only a diffuse feeling under the hothouse clouds with the rocks hot under his feet. He skirted a sinkhole, feeling the corrosive strength of its deadly air on his scales. A small shower wet him. The nearness of the sinkhole added to the moisture and his scales crackled as acids sizzled and boiled. A swirl of the thick cloud gave him a dim view of the rank growth of the low spot, tangled, pulpy mass. He picked his way carefully. A slip would have been fatal, for not even his healing abilities, not even his tough protective scales, would have saved him had he fallen into that hellhole. The land sloped upward gradually and the going became easier. He walked again with long, strong strides, the weight of his pack light on his back. On the plains of glass the wind was a steady force in his face. Billowing clouds moved overhead, but the heat of the smooth plain seemed to form a pocket of fairly decent air immediately above it, so he breathed more easily, not using his stored life. He camped in the center of the plain, coverlet over him, the heat and emissions of the smooth, glassy earth tingling his scales, his cells working. He awoke with the first glow of day, fed, strapped on his pack and set off at a swift pace, eager to put the plains behind him before another night overtook him. His jogging pace ate up his reserves, but there would, hopefully, be good air near the great river. He could smell the river from afar and it urged him on. To his disappointment a heavy accumulation of gases hung over it, hiding it from his view until, pushing through the low growth of vegetation lining its banks, he stood with his feet wet, vainly trying to see the tall, broken rocks of the escarpment on the other side. The water was clean. It was, of course, lifeless, but it made a pleasant contrast to the heaviness of the sea, where he spent his working hours. He waded in, felt the coolness cover his scales, wash away the accumulated ash of corrosion. He found a few inches of good air at the surface, gulped it, gills pumping out wastes, before closing his outer lids and ducking his head. He swam, his natural buoyancy keeping him just below the surface. He opened his outer lids to find that visibility was good, although there was nothing to see. He walked the last short distance on slippery rocks tumbled into the water at the edge of the escarpment. He breathed air at the surface of the water before starting his climb and then made the ascent slowly, examining the exposed bones of the planet as he went. mused by brown streaks making erratic patterns in the rock wall. The discoloration reminded him of the waste formed on his precious small nugget of hard material. He had seen such evidence before in his travels and had once asked his teachers an oblique question regarding them. There was, of course, no real proof, but still he could not keep his mind from speculating. Could the hard materials have been natural deposits within the forbidden depths of the soil? In places where the forces of nature had bared the subsurface rock the ground took on a new look. He spent much of the remaining light climbing the escarpment, searching in vain. At the top, picking his way through boulders that dwarfed him, he felt the effects of the strenuous climb and quickly found a sheltered place. He cocooned himself within his protective sheet of The Material, fed and was sleeping before the darkness of the night closed over him. He awoke to a feeling of delicious aloneness. A storm was raging. Wet rocks poured moisture as the yellowish rain fell, formed rivulets over low-worn areas, dripped, ran, splashed down the near wall of the escarpment. He lay inside his shelter, hearing the hiss of the acid rain on the impregnable Material. The storm, he knew, would have the effect of washing the air, leaving behind, hopefully, workable conditions. The rain would have another effect -- a heavy downpour often found pockets of loose material atop the hard rocks and washed them clean, leaving behind newly exposed areas. He had hoped for just such a storm and it was fortunate that it had occurred during his first night on the plateau. The hunting would be interesting. He walked the steaming rocks, his pack in place, for he would not return the same way. The high plateau extended roughly north and south along the western bank of the river. In spots of irregular formation rock dams backed up lakes of dull water. However, it was not the river's edge that interested him, but the central portions of the plateau where endless sun circles of time had allowed the rain to wash the rocks clean, leaving behind an accumulation of various sizes of stone. He walked with his eyes down. He saw only earth stuff. The going was slow, since he had to pick his way carefully. Now and then a loose stone rolled under his foot, causing him to struggle for balance. To add to his splendid isolation, he had closed off his mind. He asked for no contact. He could summon help in the event of dire emergency, for Red Earth's mind wps far reaching and a Power Giver was in the western area. But he envisioned no such emergency and remained calmly confident in his ability. he covered ground with which he was partly familiar. Then he moved southward. The bleak landscape was unchanged. It was a world of exposed rocks, long since eroded clean by the storms. He was the only life, save for some thin air-feeders growing on the protected side of the largest boulders. Nothing moved -- only the air, heavy, laden with poisons lifted from the rank low areas, shifted by the vast movements of the atmosphere. His broth supply was holding out well and he was finding enough air to conserve the vital stores within his body. A lull in the storms allowed him to cover -- his mind pictured a distance based on comparing his progress with the wellknownimage of the distance around the planet. He rested. During the night the winds increased and new clouds of forbidding density moved over the plateau. He spent the day in his protective cover, unable to breathe, using his life stores sparingly, allowing his body to lapse into astate of sluggishness during which his heart thudded only rarely. Although slowed, his mind was able to work, to take coenesthesiac stock of his condition. He was satisfied. The new storm blew through the day, into the night, calmed, began anew at dawn. The inactivity galled him, set his mind to speculating to escape boredom. He reviewed all his knowledge and wished for a contact with a Keeper to doublecheck, but did nothing, since the distances and energies involved would have been a drain. He would not admit, even in the privacy of his mind, that he was indeed looking for a fabled lost city. Yet there was some connection between his being here and in his having once heard an unconfirmed legend regarding a lost city beside the river. To indulge himself, give his mind occupation while the storm blew and there was no breathable air, he speculated on the Old Ones. If it were true that the land had once been rich with growing things, the waters sweet, then the Old Ones would have sought locations such as this, near water. The city, if there had been one, could have been on either side of the river, but the legend repeated by the western Healers had specified the western bank. That meant the plateau. And since the plateau was a fairly recent development on the scale of time extending so many sun circles back that his mind could not hold the picture, the city would have been lifted with the upheaval of the earth, tumbled, broken. The rains would long since have washed away any trace of it. Except, perhaps, for the hard materials, which were heavy, heavier than the stones, heavier than the deadly soft soil of the low areas. It was his vague hope that particles of the hard material had become lodged in the broken fields of stone atop the plateau. The hope might indeed prove a foolish one. There was still no connection, except in his imagination, between the Old Ones and the hard materials, but he was on his free time and he would not have been content to spend it in the confinement of his establishment. It was his feet that tingled from the walking, his scales that sizzled when the acid rain struck them, his cells that were being used as he lived on his stored air. If he spent the rest of his life span using his free time to walk the desolate places -- it was his life. And even if he never found another nugget of hard material he would be rewarded by the mere seeking, the experiencing -- the knowledge that he, Rack the Healer, had come to know vast stretches of his own world with his own feet. abated enough for him to find some air he moved on. He came upon the sinkhole near the midpoint of the sun's day cycle and looked down, expecting to see the usual rank growth, the poison accumulation of heavy gases, and was amazed to find that not only could he see to the bottom of the rather large depression in the solid surface of the plateau; he could smell the goodness of clean air. There was vegetation on the floor of the depression, true, but it was not made up of the misshapen things of other sinkholes. It was more like the harmless stuff that grew along the river bank. It was sparse. He squatted to examine his find, his senses straining. He could, hear running water. He moved tentatively down the sloping face of the depression, taking stock as he went, finding no deadly stuff, only an improvement in the air he breathed. Encouraged, he went down, down, until he stood on the floor of the small valley and confirmed that the vegetation was not the deadly sort. The air was even cleaner than he had found it during his descent. A rising current in it lifted the heavy, noxious gases and dispersed them into the overhanging clouds. He advanced across the valley floor, feeling the unfamiliar softness of soil under his feet. He walked gingerly, for only a fool trod freely on the deadliness of soft earth. This soil, however, was surprisingly free of the hard particles that destroyed cells more IF rapidly than the most healthy healer could replace them. He made his way toward the sound of running water and came upon a wonderfully clear outpouring. It came from the rocks underlying the soft earth, bubbling up with a cheery sound, so translucent that he could see small soil particles circulating in it. He tested it gingerly and found it to be scalding hot. He knew then why the small valley, shaped much like the navel on a young Power Giver, was not like the usual low spot. In the relative coolness of the air that lay over the plateau the water was making vapor. Even in the heat of the summer it would still be much hotter than the surrounding air, thus creating upcurrents and discouraging the growth of the noxious weeds of the sinkholes. He was squatting on the edge of the basin into which the astoundingly clean water flowed from its source within the rocks of the valley wall. The soft earth under his feet sent out particles, true, but even if the quantity were more than the emission of solid rock, it was still less than the quantity encountered in a dense cloud. It was well below the level of danger for a Healer and therefore ceased to concern him. His interest was drawn by the movement of the water as it swirled into the basin. Pebbles, disturbed by the fall, made little bell sounds. The water seemed about waist deep. The flow was strong. Seeking an outlet from the basin, the stream had cut through the soft earth to bedrock and loose stone. It wandered, as he followed it, from the side of the valley toward the center, making loops and swirls and lined with harmless vegetation. The water, incredibly, remained clean. The bed of the stream was covered with loose, rounded pebbles. He had never seen anything quite like it. Fascinated, he continued to follow the stream until it formed a small lake near the far wall, the wall closest to the edge of the escarpment and the river, and from that lake there was no outlet, leading Rack to think that it must be seeping down through the earth at the bottom of the lake, as water seeps through rocks, to find the level of the river below. The most pleasing thing about the valley, however, was not the meandering stream and its miraculously clean water, but the relative purity of the air. When a cloud passed, hanging low, noxious vapors filled the valley for only short periods of time before they were lifted by the rising currents. It was almost as if the valley generated its own clean air. He did not understand, but neither did he question. He walked on the strange-feeling softness, examined green, slick, harmless growths alongside the creek, left the water reluctantly to explore the remainder of the valley. By then, having located nothing as exciting as the water, he was tired and it was growing dark. He slept with the sound of running water in his ear. invigorated by sleep and good air, he examined the stream with closer attention. He knew the erosive effect of moving water and accepted the fact that the stream had cut through the thick layer of softness, a layer fully as deep as the distance between his outstretched thumb and finger, to the rocky underlayer. He put his hands into the water and handled the smooth, rounded pebbles. He could feel the heat through his protective hide -- the water was hotter than the hottest day in the southern regions. He was bemused by the smoothness of the pebbles, fingered them with pleasure, sorted them to size, arranging them on the green covered bank. It was pleasing to start with the larger pebbles, stack smaller ones on top to form a small mound. He was for the moment a child, playing children's games. His mind was idle. At first he did not note the difference in weight as he fingered a small, rounded pebble and lifted it. Then the shift of a cloud allowed a glow of sunlight and the pebble in his fingers glowed with a life of its own, yellow and rich. He made an explosive sound through his small lips. Hard material. Of much the same heft as his treasured nugget of gray hard material, but yellow, unbelievably rich and beautiful. Feverishly he stirred the pebbles of the stream, roiling the water with the accumulation of silt in the stones until he was unable to see. He berated himself for greed. Many a Healer went through life without finding a single nugget of hard material. He now owned three -- and the last was by far the most wonderful. He spent a long period contemplating it. Wonderful as it was, it showed no signs of having been crafted. It was irregular in shape, but smoothed by the action of the stream. It showed no hint of corrosion. It stayed yellow even in the tainted air. When he was filled with the sensation of seeing, touching, feeling it, he began to speculate on its origin. It had been lodged in the pebbles when he found it, at the bottom, being heavier than the pebbles. Would not the heavy materials naturally sink into the earth? No. The earth was solid. Yet it had been there at the bottom. Perhaps it had been formed by nature under the soil's surface. He shuddered. Seated on the softness of the strange ground he could more fully comprehend the meaning of below the surface. Walking on solid stone or on the smoothIF ness of the plains of glass, one oftep forgot that there was a subsurface. Here subsurface had meaning -- one could imagine it below the soft earth. He placed a careful hand on the bank of the stream, down low, near the surface of the water. The hard projectiles tingled his small finger scales, but the increase was insignificant. Had the action of the running water cleansed the soil itself? An entirely new concept thundered into his brain. He loved life, revered it, as did every member of the race. He would not have considered breaking the most ancient of laws, lest he harm prematurely the precious gift with which he was entrusted. Yet he had held his hand below the surface, next to the exposed soft soil of the creek bank and he had lived, had not even been endangered. This valley, he thought, was different, unlike any other spot on the planet, at least any spot he had seen. The air was cleaner. The water was incredibly pure. The running water cut through the soft surface and exposed pebbles and beautiful nuggets of hard material. He walked to the basin, watched the rushing water emerge from the rocks. Experimentally he moved stones, placing them where the water gurgled from the confining basin. He made a guilty search of the area and found only solitude. He told himself he was not breaking the law. He was merely shifting rocks -- and this was permissible as long as the rocks were lying free on the surface. The pile of rocks grew. Water ran around and between the stones, undeterred. He filled chinks with small pebbles, scooped the coarse, gritty small particles from the floor of the basin and the creek. The basin level rose, kept rising. The flow of water was slowed. His tough feet dislodged green, slick material from the banks of the creek and he picked up a piece, seeing that a certain amount of the soft earth clung to it. He was shocked. He dropped the offending bit of green, picked it up again. It was lying free, wasn't it? He was stretching logic, true, for his feet had freed it. But it was free and it had a wet, spongy feeling. He placed it in the chinks between the rocks of his dam and it impeded the flow of water so well that he recklessly trod up and down the banks of the creek to loosen jnore of the green material to be used to close the chinks. A trickle of water began to run from the far edge of the basin. At first it was soaked up by the soft surface soil. Then it puddled, ran. He watched, fascinated, waiting for it to begin to do its work, to cyt into the loose dirt and expose the rocks underneath. I stream was running all the way down the valley to join the old stream a short distance below the basin. The water running over the new earth was made dingy by its passage, yet the cutting away of the soft material had not begun. He spent an uneasy, guilt-ridden night. His curiosity of the morning overcame his guilt, for the work of the night-running water had, indeed, begun to loosen more of the soft particles of earth. There was a noticeable depression in the new stream bed and here and there rocks showed through. Moreover, the hard projectiles were no more frequent then before. It was to be a very slow process. He determined that some days later. The bed of his diverted stream was still composed of softened mud. He left the valley reluctantly. He was caught in a fresh storm and weathered it inside his protective covering of The Material. He wandered and explored, but nowhere did he find anything as interesting as his valley. He found only bleak, barren rocks, the river, the western slope of the giant upheaval, tumbled, broken, yielding nothing. During a lull in the storms he jogged to the east, coming on his valley just as he began to eat seriously into his reserves. He breathed his air, watched his stream work, noted that more and more rocks and pebbles were showing in the new stream bed. He slept beside the heated water of the basin for nights and nights, spent his days searching the old stream bed for more hard-material nuggets, found none. Impatient, as his time grew short, he began to search the new stream bed, first removing his dam so that the water sought its original channel. He found only mud and bare, unpolished pebbles. He worked feverishly, the technique familiar now, to create a new dam and to build up the low area on the side of the basin where his first artificial creek had overflowed. The new channel was cut with maddening slowness. As his time grew shorter and shorter he lessened his daily ration of broth and watched the storms worsen, the sun circle drew toward its end. He found the object on his last day in the valley. The timing seemed to have significance. It was as if nature had withheld her bombshell to the last possible instant before revealing it casually to his hands as they sorted through rocks and pebbles in his second stream bed. He knew when he picked it up that something exciting was happening. The object was smooth, oblong, rounded on the ends. It was darkened and pitted. And it was strangely light in his hands, having neither the weight of natural stone nor the heavier feel of the hard materials. He cleaned it in the running water, rubbing the accumulated IF mud from it, heedless of the fact that in fingering the mud he was technically digging. The mud was from below the surface. But his excitement allowed no moralizing. The object was different. It had the look, the feel of being crafted. He cleaned it and saw that it was transparent and was at first deflated. It was, he felt with a sinking heart, merely an abandoned piece pf The Material, but further examination and comparison .proved his conclusion wrong. Like The Material in transparency, it was not as light, had not the feel of life possessed by the smooth, flexible Material of the Far Seers, was definitely artificial and totally alien. It was obviously not a product of his civilization. That left two choices. Either it had fallen from the sky, as suggested by some Far Seers in connection with the hard materials, or it had been made by some inhabitant of the planet. He prepared his arguments as he packed and left the valley. He was convinced that he had a thunderclap to toss into the minds of Red Earth and all the other doubters. For if the object in his pack had not been made by his civilization and if it had not fallen from the sky -- then there was only one other explanation. It was a relic of the Old Ones. And to have evidence that the Old Ones could have fabricated something of that nature, so like The Material, would force a revision in the thinking of the entire race. IV H IS pack, almost empty of broth, was light on his back. But it became evident even before he had gained the eastern bank of the river that he had underestimated the severity of the weather conditions. In a short picture of days the new circle would begin and time -- pictures of changes in the face of the satellite, which he himself could not see, but for which he had an inner feel -- would bring the abatement of the winter storms. Meanwhile the outside atmosphere was chilled to slightly above his own body temperature and the southeasterly movements of the masses of polar air were violent enough to cause waves of concern to wash through Rack's self-confidence. He had already been afield longer than ever before, thanks to the store of relatively good air in his valley. However, good as the air had been, he had been gradually using his reserve stores and now, with the plains of glass stretching endlessly ahead of him, he tried coenesthesis and projected and found that he did indeed have cause for concern. The air was totally unbreathable. Not a particle of it was allowed below the lock above his lungs. He tested it and his gills pumped violently, sending condensed clouds of pure poison swirling out from his neck. He scouted up and down the river in a vain effort to add to his stores. Not even at water level could he find clean air. Nothing was left for him to do but strike out across the plains and hope for a blreak in the solid overcast. He moved at a steady slow pace, designed for maximum distance at minimum cost. Fresh, he made it across the plains in -- a double picture of a day. Now he would be lucky to be able to set foot on the rocky soil of the eastern side in -- a question, followed by a discouraging picture of days. He did not fear for his life. Should his being become endangered, he would call for aid. But only as a last resort. His pride would push him on. His regard for others would cause him to expend his own life force rather than call a relatively fragile Power Giver out of her safe retreat into the deadly storms. At the end of the day he had made discouragingly small progress, so he pushed on in the darkness of night, guided by instinctive sense of direction. He paused long enough to finish his broth supply, overeating in an effort to accumulate quick energy for a dash. Refreshed, he jogged, burning himself, until the first light of dawn glowed weakly through the solid curtain of gases that lay over the plains. Where the plains dipped he would bend to explore the air near the surface, but the conditions were total. He rested under his sheet of The Material and measured. He had as far to go as he had come -- and beyond the plains the rugged, broken land stretched for more than that distance again before he approached the nearest establishment. It would be a breach of politeness to break in unannounced on another individual's privacy, but life was the important thing and no one would turn him away. Thus he set as his goal the establishment nearest the badlands on the east of the plains of glass and prepared himself for the unpleasant task of imposing his needs on another. Remembering the importance of the piece of material he carried in his pack, he was consoled. he moved out with long strides, but more slowly than he would have wished. His scales registered a high amount of projectile emission from the heavy atmosphere. His feet were beginning to know a certain soreness. He did not waste energy in trying to heal them, but saved even that small portion of his force for fueling his giant pump, the vital organ within him that sent blood swirling through his body to pick the particles of good air from storage cells and carry strength IF to where it was needed. The discomfort he felt was his just punishment for having overstayed his capacity. Another night found him exhausted and still on the plains. His senses had dulled. He no longer had an exact picture of the remaining distance. Endless plains flowed under his feet. He was isolated within a circle of vision extending scarcely beyond his outstretched arm, closed in by the densest clouds he had ever experienced. It would be interesting, he thought, to compare notes with Red Earth's Keeper and learn how many sun circles one would have to look back to find a storm of equal toxicity. He would have, he thought, a great tale for his offspring. The thought, he realized with a start, was strange for a Healer who had shown no signs of readiness. Perhaps the knowledge of his own mortality had prompted the wayward speculation. For he was indeed threatened. For the first time in his life he was in a situation from which he could not, even with his vast endurance, his strength, his own resources, extricate himself. He admitted it now. He was in beyond his own abilities and it was only a question of time before he would have to open his mind and admit his failure. His pride pushed him forward. Each step used up his reserves. He was slowed to a crawl, but he was determined to make it to the rocks. There, with any luck at all, he would be able to find pockets of usable air. Calling a Power Giver into the thick of the stagnant storm would rob her of a portion of her life and. Power Givers being the most short-lived, fragile beings of the race, he refused to ask such a sacrifice. He was moving slowly, pain signals telling him of far-reaching waste of his body, when his feet encountered a roughness instead of the hopeless smoothness of the plains and, for a moment, his spirit was lifted. He made respectable time into an expanse of boulders, his sensitive nose seeking air, finding only unusable gases. At his pace he was still more than a day's march from the nearest establishment. Over him the stagnant masses of gas began to shift. He could feel the movement on his scales and was given one last hope. If the storm began to blow out -- behind it might come cool air of a usable purity. He wrapped himself, slowed his metabolism, went into a state of nearly suspended animation. His heart moved only occasionally and his mind darkened and slowed. A few good lungfuls of air would give him enough strength to make the establishment. But the movement of the air masses ceased -- the blow was only a local, temporary thing. He measured. He could, he estimated. V safely wait the coming of a new day. He dropped his heartbeat to the minimum level and, in a state of quasi-death, waited through the long night. His mind held only a token of awareness -- a spark of life lay there, banked, waiting to rouse him, waiting to open the gates and send out that last desperate admission of foolishness. Dimly, the rising sun lighted the rocks, the stark desolation. Awareness of the day seeped through the protective layers of his mind. He stirred. The conditions were still total. A feeling of overwhelming sadness swept him as he opened, sent. The sadness was replaced by horror as he realized the weakness of his signal. He burned the last of his reserve cells, converting the energy into a truly desperate call now -- and knowing even as he lapsed into darkness that he had waited too long. His last awareness was not fear of death, but shocked horror at his miscalculation. His mistake would take one unit of life -- it simply happened to be his own personal unit -- from the pitifully small store of life on the planet. He was not mourning his own loss, but the loss his carelessness had inflicted on the whole. His brain was numb, dark. His extremities were beginning to lose the flexibility of life. He was unaware as nature, sometimes kind, sometimes cruel, spared him the knowledge of his dying. H E knew when he felt the caress of good air in his lungs that he was still alive. He lay on an unfamiliar rack, his huge chest pumping at a fast rate, his depleted cells drinking thirstily, his lungs sucking air at a tremendous rate. He stopped breathing immediately, rolled back his outer lids. He found himself establishment-safe and opened his inner eyes to see in the semidarkness. "Thank you," the thoughts of a Power Giver said. "I was afraid you were going to bankrupt me of air before you awoke." He was covered. The coverlet was unnecessary in the comfort of the establishment, felt rather warm, in fact. He threw it off and sat up. She, the Power Giver, was in the chair. As he swung his legs off the rack she averted her eyes and this was strange. He sent abject shame. She negated. "You heard, then?" he asked. "No. Red Earth the Far Seer sent me. You were out so long. He was searching." "To Red Earth, too, I owe my expressions of shame," he said. She would not look at him. He couldn't blame her. His seemingly foolish behavior had sent her out into the storm. Moreover, he had been unconscious upon entering and, as he had encountered the good. Breather-manufactured air of her establishment, he apparently IF had voided his gills. A small cloud of heavy, poisonous stuff was shifting wispily in the small currents of air created by his movement. It had accumulated on the floor. He bent, breathed it, stored it inside his gill sack. He would void it later outside. Meantime he was deeply in her debt. In cases of dire emergency the niceties were sometimes forgotten, but Rack could not forgive himself for having soiled her private air, for having used an unforgivable amount of it. She would be on short rations until the overworked Breathers made up the deficit. "There was a reason," he said. "Yes, I'm sure of that." Her eyes were down, her inner lids closed. "You're Beautiful Wings the Power Giver?" "Yes." "Would a small gift repay you even in part for your sacrifice?" He had seen his pack on the floor. He opened it, brought out the precious nugget of hard material. He stepped in front of her, hand extended. Astoundingly, her face began to glow through the delicate covering of tiny, bejeweled scales. Even more astoundingly he found himself looking at her as he had never looked at a Power Giver before, noting her delicate proportions. She was a small girl as Power Givers went, with long, delightfully curved limbs, a slender waist, a graceful chest on which, flattened, protected by silvery scales, her bulges were quite pronounced. He had always been an admirer of the grace of the Power Givers, but never before had he been so smitten with any one individual. He was suddenly speechless. "It is not necessary," she sent. "I want you to have it. It is material of a certain scarcity. It would adorn you." He pictured a mounting of The Material with the beautiful yellow hard material framed on her rounded chest. The glow of her face became even more pronounced. It was certainly strange behavior for a sensible Power Giver. But he himself was feeling strange. Because of his near brush with death? Even now he could feel the depletion of his resources. His body weight was down massively. "May I ask how much it cost you?" He waited politely for her answer. She sent a picture of her condition. He was pleased. She was vibrantly healthy. Apparently her excursion into the storms had cost little. "Fortunately," she sent, "you moved within -- " a measurement in picture form -- "of my establishment." "Then I am pleased and insist on your having this." He pressed the nugget into her hand and the touch electrified him, sent a surge of pure goodness through his body. Alarmed, he stepped back. his gaze falling, his suspicions growing. He read himself and now it was his face that glowed through his scales, for in the bulge over his pelvic area the large, protective scales were tinted a dull russet. He knew then why she had covered him, knew why he was looking at her with an interest he had never felt before. He fell back, seized the coverlet in agitated haste, draped it over his middle. He sent waves of shame and atonement. "It is merely nature," she sent. "It's just -- it's just -- " She went blank. shamelessly. His state of confusion following his rescue from death was no excuse. When entering the state of readiness one secluded oneself from polite society, bore the change in solitude until, fully readied, one went in search of a mate. To expose one's first tint to the opposite sex, especially to one who was not, herself, going through the change, was unforgivable. He could only send regret, ask for forgiveness. "You were unaware," she said. "I understand." He closed off, unable to bear his shame. She fingered the nugget of hard material, her inner lids open to see. "It is truly beautiful. Is this the justification for your trip?" "Beautiful as it is -- no." He opened his pack, showed her the strange object. She examined it with wondering hands and eyes, glanced at him fully for the first time. "What is it?" she asked. "Truthfully, I don't know," he said. "But my not knowing helps to explain its importance. As you can see, it is not The Material, nor is it anything with which we are familiar in our high state of civilization." "Is it a thing fallen from the space outside?" she asked. "That again I do not know." He looked at her. She once more held her eyes down and he knew a strange, sweet feeling of peace. And in her concentration she forgot to hide her own feelings, let her nature express itself with a flowering of scales on the delicate bulges of her chest, opening them slightly, as the flower of the slime source opened under the thick, salty, mineralized waters of the sea. His heart pounded. She was incredibly young. The change should have been sun circles in her future, yet here was the unmistakable sign. The flowering of her chest bulges was revealed only momentarily before she became aware of the erotic sensation and closed them, glowing furiously. "Beautiful, Beautiful Wings," he sent, searing her with his emotion. Then, as she recoiled, he eased. "I knew your father, Northern Ice the Healer. In my travels I talked with him -- and I knew you as a child." IF "He is dead these -- several sun circles." A warmth swept through his body: Emotions surged, flooded him, made his interior go soft and flowing. "I am not mistaken?" he asked, sending a replay of the sweet, unconscious flowering of her chest bulges. She answered in a warm affirmative. But she reached for an opaque sheet of The Material and covered herself before looking at him. Wild, warm thoughts flooded out of him, thoughts about nature, fate, luck, bringing them together, amazement that she should begin her change so young, pleasure in his eyes' picture of her. "Am I truly?" she sent. "Am I truly beautiful?" "Affirmative, affirmative, affirmative." Repeating the picture of pleasure in his eyes, standing before her, tall, strong, manly. "There are many others," she said. "They do not matter." "I have heard that a Healer is prone to love the first Power Giver changeling he encounters, but that this love is illusionary and not necessarily the indication of a wise choice," she said. "It is true. Our custom will require that I seek." She closed. He sent one last beautiful picture into her closing mind and got a febrile, grandly complimentary, girlish picture in return. The moment was gone. "You are to seek Red Earth's establishment as soon as you are able." "True," he said. "I have much to report." "He was fretful." "I little doubt that." "Will you be reprimanded?" "I don't think so. Not when I show him this." He took the strange object from her hand. "Red Earth's mind, although he won't admit it, is as curious as that of my Healer's." He read the state of the air in the establishment, monitored the activity of her Breathers, who were working overly hard because of the drain of two sets of lungs. "I have taken enough of your air. I have ample stores to reach Red Earth's establishment." "I will transport you." "No!" He was emphatic. He would not allow her to go out into the deadly storm again on his behalf. "I have been so instructed." "Then we shall disobey," he said. He allowed himself one breath of her air, bowed. As he went out into the lock he sent a picture of his returning. He felt a warm glow in answer. H IS own establishment was nearer than Red Earth's. He jogged through the barren stretches joyously, feeling a renewed strength. He vented his gills in his own lock, entered to find a huge store of air so rich it made him giddy. He breathed furiously, causing much agitation among his Breathers, felt his weight build, his chest expand, his tired, empty cells fatten. Thus enriched, he ran swiftly through the dark, thick storm, feeling an exaltation he had never known before, dressed now in the loin cloth of readiness. Beautiful Wings' coverlet, used during the trip from her establishment to his, was cleaned and ready, back in his establishment, to be returned to her -- as return it he would. He made the march in short time, feeling only a slight drain on his reserves, so fat was he with air. He announced his arrival, was admitted to the lock, vented his gills, shook the ash of the outside from his scales, sneaked one look at the russet bulge in his loins. Inside, Red Earth was lounging on his rack. Rack greeted him cordially, holding back the sensational information. "You are fat and refreshed, I see," Red Earth sent grumpily. "I will use none of your air," said Rack. "A pleasant change," Red Earth said, an oblique reference to Rack's hungry breathing of Beautiful Wings' air. "A nugget of hard material is scant exchange for life." "If you were observing so closely," Rack said, "did you also see the valley of the hot water?" "I have more to do than follow the ramblings of an irresponsible Healer," Red Earth sent. "Then I have much to tell." "I am interested only in the breakdown of your coenesthesis and the reasons for your being stranded in the wilderness. And in those solely with a view to preventing such happenings in the future. Perhaps your punishment will inspire other Healers to use more caution." "I do indeed deserve punishment," Rack admitted. "However, I think other considerations also deserve attention." "Your state of coming readiness is noted and will be considered." Red Earth sent a noncommittal image. "We cannot, even in an event such as this, neglect the possibility of creating a new unit of life." He let slip his foolish hopes and Rack grinned inwardly as he saw pictures of speculation. It would indeed be ironic if Rack, in disgrace, should sire the New One. "I am not speaking merely of that," Rack said. He slowly produced the object, holding it on the palm of his hand, moving to stand directly in front of Red Earth. The bald, bare dome of Red Earth's head did not move, but Rack could feel the push and probe of the Far Seer's senses. He extended the object, gave it over to Red Earth's hand. For long moments the Far Seer examined it, then with an explosion of emotion threw it from him. IF It hit the soft, yielding wall and fell to the floor. "From the subsurface!" Red Earth flared unbelievingly. "True," Rack admitted. He underwent a blast of anger and shock. He stood his ground. "You dug," Red Earth accused him. "Not true." "I sensed the taint of soft earth, the deadliness of the earth." Waves of anger, fear, sorrow. Rack began to be seriously concerned. He was well aware of the law against digging. It was a law so absolute that the mind of the oldest Keeper held no record of its having been broken. "If you will listen -- " "Not I," Red Earth sent sadly. "No, I will not listen. There will be a council. Then we will listen." "That will take time," Rack sent desperately, remembering the soft flowering of the delicate scales on Beautiful Wings' chest bulges. He sent a powerful picture of his need, his love for Beautiful Wings, the pull of nature, the necessity of proper timing. His russet tint would deepen, become flame red. The flowering of Beautiful Wings' chest bulges would become involuntary and expose the soft flesh underneath her scales. And there would be other changes, changes that left him weak merely to contemplate them. His desperate plea was rejected coldly. Red Earth was tightly closed. In the whole of civilization there were only -- a small picture of unbreakable laws -- and Rack had broken the most severely enforced one. It was unthinkable. Yet it had happened. No other considerations could stand against that fact. Even the chance for new life, the most desired event in the life of man, was unimportant. "Please, you must listen. I myself did not dig." "I will keep the evidence of your folly," Red Earth said sternly. "You will not be given the opportunity to cleanse it further, although you have, obviously, already tried to erase the traces of the subsurface from it. You will return to your establishment. There you will stay until a council can be arranged." A picture of time, extending past the time of storms into the new beginning, too late, too late. By then Rack's tint would have long since faded. The moment would have passed. "You will not listen?" he asked. "I am but one. The serious nature of this crime demands a Council." "And my readiness?" Rack asked "Wasted." And over Red Earth's anger and shock and fear hung a shroud of sadness. "Go." slowly to his establishment, paying no heed to the waste of his energies and forces. Inside, he fell into his rack. He felt unjustly used. He had not dug. The water had dug, not he. And his lack of guilt was proven y the fact that he had suffered no ill effects from his experiment -- and had been rewarded by the discovery of an amazing object which, to his astonishment, had not aroused Red Earth's deepest curiosity. Even a Power Giver -- Beautiful Wings, oh, Beautiful Wings -- had been impressed. Any Healer would have been beside himself with excitement. But to a cold-blooded Far Seer the suspected breaking of an ancient law was the issue, not the mind-boggling mysteries of the obviously crafted object. The situation was completely without logic. Rack's world was an orderly one. It ran on age-old principles proven by time. In his orderly world such misunderstanding was not possible. It was unbelievable to him that he was to be robbed of his chance to add a spark of life to the scant life force of the planet. Who indeed was breaking the law? Not he. The law-breaker was clearly Red Earth the Far Seer, who was trying to impose his will on nature to negate one of her most elemental forces. Beautiful Wings. Ah... He opened, sent. The distance was far too great. But in his state of openness he intercepted Red Earth's message, directed over Rack's establishment to a northern Far Seer -- the call for council. And the urgency in Red Earth's thoughts made a cold chill run down Rack's spine. Upon absorbing Red Earth's charges he began to realize the seriousness of his predicament. In a world that revered life he did not fear death as a punishment, but in outlining the crime Red Earth touched on possible punishments that chilled Rack's mind. Banishment. To the far southland with its burning earth and choking gases belched up from the planet's bowels? Or to a lonely station at the far north where the frost sheet never melted, to live out his days cold and alone? He closed and considered. In all fairness he was due to be questioned, for his actions in the small, pure valley had, been out of the ordinary. His use of running water to cut through the shallow layer of soft earth was, at best, a daring innovation -- and Far Seers were affected strongly by any hint of innovation. Life's balance was so precarious that experimentation was to be carefully considered before being undertaken. But he had done no harm. Not in the valley. His only crime had been in his having stayed too long and having had to waste some of the life force of Beautiful Wings to extricate himself out of his selfcreated crisis. For these sins he would gladly accept a punishment IF tour in the far north, a tour of limited duration, beginning after his joining. But could a guilty one select his own punishment? No -- still, such sentences had been handed down in the past. He would not -- could not -- accept the punishments being suggested in advance by Red Earth, for they meant more than death. Not only his own death after a long, agonizing loneliness, but the death of his unborn, unconceived offspring. The planet would be deprived of two life units. Could not the Far Seers understand that? If he had indeed dug in the earth -- then he would have expected the most severe punishment, now would accept it. Deserve it... Or would he? An entirely new line of thought. If he had dug in his valley by hand he would have, according to his measurements, suffered no bodily damage. So where was the crime?  ment, striding, breathing carelessly. He slept little, awoke to find his russet loins turning a pinker, brighter shade. He pictured Beautiful Wings the Power Giver and the image was unbearably sweet. He remembered her welcoming of his suggestion that he would return and he contemplated the loss of his only readiness -- for to have more than one change in life was rare. He was young. He felt that he was in the right. "If I am a law-breaker," he told himself, "then I am lost -- but the sins of the father should not be extended to obviate his seed." Thinking in such terms, with his loins pink and bright, seemed natural. Nature moved in him, making chemical changes in his body, sending delicate urges into his brain. He made his decision in the midpoint of the sun's day cycle. Red Earth, in his intercepted thoughts, had indicated contact with every Far Seer east of the river. Completion of such a roundup would take time and energy and would, Rack estimated, cover the period of this day, another day and possibly still another. The establishment of Beautiful Wings the Power Giver was a quick jog away. And if he were indeed a criminal he was not responsible for his actions. Moreover, he could be punished only once. And once implanted in Beautiful Wings' body, his seed would be life -- and thus sacred. His decision made, he stored a maximum quantity of air, packed his winter's supply of broth, packed in addition a sealed container of closely crowded Breathers to add to Beautiful Wings' colonies. He marched swiftly, heavily burdened, not able to. breathe in the fierce storms which had now reached their peak of deadliness. She was waiting, sensing his coming from afar, meeting his mind and discussing the situation with him as he jogged through the bleak, atmospheredarkened emptiness. At first she was shocked and reluctant about his coming, but his emotionfilled thoughts swept her objections aside. The feelings of a Power Giver at joining time were nature's strongest force. And she had seen Rack's beginning tint, had felt the strength and power of his personality, had seen the beauty of his body. She stood inside the establishment, unable to control the flowering of her chest scales as he entered. They opened out delicately, flaring in a curling sheet, forming a ring around delicate pinkness, the flesh of motherhood, the flesh from which the offspring would feed. Rack, on seeing her, felt his own scales stir and move. He sent beauty, beauty, love. And she answered with a sweetness that made his knees weak. Quickly he joined his container of Breathers with her colonies, making the number sufficient for two. Then, his gills having been vented in the lock, he loosed stored air from his huge body and felt his storage cells give gladly to share with his love. In a sweet, rich plenty of air they stood, looking, inner lids wide, Rack's vibrant blue gaze sparkling with his energies. He could see far into Beautiful Wings' brown eyes. Her soul was open to him. "You, too, may be punished," he sent. "No punishment could take away the memory of this." "We have" -- he sent a picture of the time remaining before Red Earth could complete his contact with the eastern Far Seers. "Then he will check and find that I am not in my establishment." "When I first saw you -- when I was a child -- I dreamed of this day," she sent. "Our time could be shortened if he discovers me here." "But we will have created life." The picture of incredible beauty and passion made him tremble. "Before I throw aside my covering," he sent, "be sure, Beautiful Wings." "I will be content with one night, if nature will allow. My only fear, my only regret, is for you. For, as you know, the mind of a Far Seer is powerful." "In all of history there has been no record of its being used fatally." "But he is agitated. In all of recorded history no one has dug." She sent the last picture regretfully. "I think not of myself," he sent. "But of you." "For me the mere throwing aside of your covering will open a world of delight -- " Slowly he drew aside his opaque IF covering. She made an audible purr of pleasure and, in return, drew aside the belt of fashioned Material to show that she, too, was at the height of her readiness. He learned then the full picture of her name -- it came from a historic picture of a soaring thing, fragile, brightly colored, delicate. He had never seen such loveliness and his entire being vibrated as she moved languidly toward him. His eyes caressed the pink, exposed breast buds, his fingers trembled as he touched them and felt her body heat and her softness. The red tint of his maleness covered his lower body, scales folding back. "Now we will join," he whispered, leading her to the rack. She sat down, legs crossed, and , he duplicated the position. Looking deep into her eyes, he let his mind merge with hers. He knew the fullness of her mind; he let his own lose its individuality, lock with hers. He knew her most basic thought as she knew his and a rapture lifted them out of time and space. Their limbs, bent under their bodies, felt strain but did not register discomfort as the night fell and the planet spun on its axis and swam toward the new beginning. They required neither food nor air. They fed on themselves and on each other. Throughout the long, dreamy night, as the storm raged and the survival factor reached its lowest sun-circle point, they caressed minds -- and when at last the sun glowed through the yellow and purple poisons of the outside a state of pure ecstasy linked them and not even the force of Red Earth's anger could have broken their locked emotions. She came to him with the sinking sun. Her exposed feminity drew him and the union began, sweet and true and of such a totality that the Breathers, half-life that they were, stirred uneasily in their colonies. Softness met softness -- his penetration sundered her and the day passed without their notice and another night found them poised on the brink of the ultimate experience. When it happened she cried out, vocally, her expelled breath sweet. VI strong, the joining urge was not satisfied with one experience. Thus it was with Rack and Beautiful Wings. So perfect had been the preliminary union of their minds, so sweet was the seed planting, so devastating the pleasure that his tint become only more fiery and her ruby femininity did not fade when they separated. True, her chest buds were covered, his scales folded, but the strong emotions continued to rage. Had they not been in the grip of nature's most powerful force neither of them would have considered the desperate measure suggested, at the height of their joining, by their combined minds. Time, they knew in their separate minds, was now running out -- time required for the scales to open again, for her to flower. Time they did not have, for Red Earth would be checking and his powerful probe would soon find Rack. They had no idea what then would happen. They knew only that they would be separated and the thought was intolerable to each. The survival factor outside was fearfully low. To elude Red Earth meant going out into that hell of poison. To Rack a brief exposure was not serious, but to a fragile Power Giver even a short time outside, with the atmosphere giving off potent projectiles, was folly. It would be subtracted from her life. But Beautiful Wings was in love and filled with the glory of having, perhaps, a new life . in her. "I will not be robbed," she sent. He protested, but he, too, was in love. He, too, felt the great biological, chemical and emotional stresses. He could breathe for her, they both knew, give her air from his lungs, but he could not shield her from the deadly projectiles. "It is my life, love, and I will gladly spend part of it." "I cannot allow it," he sent. "For I will not live long if you are sent to the south." He could feel the power behind the statement and he believed, for in rare cases the union produced a lifetime of love, an ability to blend minds even when nature forbade the joining of bodies. "I would hate myself -- I myself would die if your life were shortened." "Then we die together." broth, a supply sufficient to last them through the winter Together they loaded the Breathers into travel containers of The Material. He winced as he measured the load she would have to carry. But they were now committed, for a tentative probe from Red Earth's mind had located the two. Red Earth's powerful forces were grouping, woulcl come thundering in to -- Rack had no idea of what the shocked Far Seer would do. Immobilization was the least he could expect. He quickly depleted the establishment, storing its last remaining air in his huge lungs. As she lifted he wept, for he could feel the drain, the using up of her force. And she, not blessed with his Healing powers, could not repair the damage. He held her tightly in his arms, giving her air from his mouth, protecting all of her that he could with his superior armor. The ascent took its toll and above the clouds she breathed furiously of IF his stored air, trying to regain some of the loss. The soaring was not as strenuous, but the descent, later, again through the roiling clouds, caused waves of pain to sweep through her as she fought the pull of the planet. His mind shared the agony in hers and his entire being cried out at the injustice of it. He should have been the one who was sacrificing for their love. On the permanent icy frost of the far north he held her, gave her a lungful of his good air, entered the closed establishment of Northern Ice the Healer, her late father, set the Breathers working, emptied his store to replenish the empty establishment. She lay weakly on the rack, breathing with difficulty. He wept openly. Once again he had been criminally foolish, acting not against himself, but against the one he loved. Both he and she had underestimated the cost of her load and she was now paying it. Her very substance had been used. She looked thin, drawn-out. But she smiled at him and directed his attention to her breasts, which were being exposed slowly as she flowered, as the ruby tint spread and her lower scales opened and those delicate, soft buds swelled with nature's bounty. "Poor Rack," she sent. "Don't suffer more than I -- for I gave myself gladly and would do it again." Twice blessed by nature, they were alone in the far north, beyond the full stength of Red Earth's punitive measures. No Far Seer was near enough to intrude upon their privacy. The hardworking Breathers expelled good air, made the long unused establishment comfortable. The unaccustomed chill served merely to invite body closeness. He held her # saving her remaining strength. More than anything in his world he wanted to lift the suffering from her, to put it into his body, where it rightfully belonged, for the entire situation was of his making. The soft tendrils of her mind pressed at his shame points, caressed his pain and sorrow. "I will live to give birth," she told him, inside him. Her body anticipated and Rack learned the wonder of growth, the swelling of life. He learned the movements of labor and the emergence of a new life. He could not help but exult. He and she moved into oneness and a fierce pride of achievement sent strong radiations reverberating around the domed establishment. Their new ecstasy mounted until, facing each other, seated locklegged on the rack, the beauty of their communication became all. In Rack a bewilderingly powerful sadness mixed with the most complete happiness he had known -- for he was loved beyond the most basic value, the regard for life. The joining began and extended into time without end, without thought. monitored by Far Seers and this far-north joining was noted and measured. The northern Far Seer nearest to it recorded that he was awed by its force, intensity and duration. He recorded more. A Healer knows the flesh of a Power Giver once, rarely twice. The observing Far Seer noted that Rack, the fortunate one, knew more. He knew flesh and total love and even in complete union kept his awareness of his Power Giver's depleted condition and of the fact that he and he alone was responsible for it. Neither Rack nor Beautiful Wings . considered, the Far Seer recorded, that the very uniqueness, the desperation, the strains, the aspects of doom of the union were adding to the depth of their emotions, but that obvious conclusion was made by the Far Seer before he, awed and made tinglingly envious, withdrew to seek his sterile consolation with his personal Keeper. And so missed what followed. Rack knew only that he would forsake the fight and die if his actions resulted in the death of Beautiful Wings. She was very weak. When the seed planting began she sank to the depths, overwhelmed by her joy. Rack's mind filled with panic, even as his body rejoiced. He roared, making an animal sound without meaning, and willed his body and being into her. His healing cells screamed out to her to fight, not to give in to the specter that had suddenly thrust itself into their moment of joy. What he sent was not a mere hope or a plea -- it was a command: Be well. And it was repeated by every cell of his being. His whole body thundered the order, striving to impart to hers the beneficence of his healing. Yet she sank. He felt the darkness boding death. His mind heated, threatened to join hers in blankness, but in that last, wildly emotional moment he felt astonishing change roar through him. It caused unheard-of things to happen in their joining. His flesh was becoming her flesh. Cell bonded to cell and where there had been lubricious friction there was a bond -- and movement ceased. He felt a strange swelling and a sensation he could not identify until he felt, in his body, the feeble beat of her heart and the flow of her blood joining his. He became aware of the damaged cells of her blood and then he was sending his powerful Healer's forces to battle the darkness, cell by cell. His substance was her substance and he was strong. IF equal to the task of mending her frail body. At last he felt life spring up in her, saw her eyes open in wonder and look into his. He was too busy to pause to analyze the miracle. His Healer's blood flowed in her veins -- his cells were her cells and his healing ability worked for both of them, using up his stored substance, voiding poisons through his gills -- and not at all concerned by this breach of politeness. "Rack, Rack," she sent. The extent of her weakness frightened him, but he was equal to the task. It cost him, but he was giving joyously, praising nature for this chance to redeem himself, to give of himself as she had given of herself for him. He flowed in her, was part of her, knew the intimate processes of her body, healed, threw off the accumulated poisons, found the inherent weakness of the Power Givers in organs that could not reject the deadly things in the environment. He knew his Power Giver as no Healer had ever known his love. He made her whole again. He did not stop until he was exhausted. She laughed suddenly in glorious health and began to question him furiously. As strangely as it had begun, the process ceased. The flesh parted and they were lying together, both aware of his seed in her. And Rack told her what he knew, for he had been able to see more than she. She was in the process of conceiving. He could no longer watch, but they talked of the mechanics of birth and tried to pinpoint the exact moment and laughed joyously and clung to each other. Later she fed him. Her being radiated health. He felt his strength returning as he consumed broth and filled his storage cells with air. Then it was time to wonder and be awed by the miracle. T HE last tints of russet left Rack's pelvic region. Beautiful Wings' scales folded into place and covered the soft flesh. But there was life within her. The sun, only a puny force in the far north, stayed below the horizon for a picture of normal days and in the cool dark they found it beautiful to sink into a mind-blend. Pictures of days became pictures of satellite changes and they were not aware of the swift passage of time. They had achieved the rare union that lasted past the creation of life -- and were drawn closer by the new and exciting knowledge that once, for a time, Rack's blood had flowed in her veins, that he had known her down to the minutest cell level, that he had felt and seen what she could never feel or see, the beginnings of new life within her body. Responsibility intruded, after satellite changes of pure happiness, in the form of the mind of a Far Seer. "Rack the Healer, will you voluntarily attend the meeting of the council of Far Seers, Healers and Power Givers?" "I will inform you," Rack sent, sinking to depths of sadness. "Now you have how added other crimes," Beautiful Wings told him. "They will cite your disobedience." "And add the crime of endangering the life of a Power Giver in unlawful flight," Rack agreed. "I will lose you." "Negative, negative," he sent angrily. For it necessarily followed that if she lost him he would lose her and he could envision no worse fate. "I will go with you to the death lands of the far south," she promised. "Negative, negative," he sent, thinking furiously. "Perhaps, by some miracle of nature, you can heal me even in the death lands." "There I cannot, for any picture of time, heal even myself," he sent. "Then we die together." "Much as I revere my own life -- and life as an abstract goodness -- I revere yours more." He caressed her. "To think of you dead is the most terrible pain." "Then we'll flee once more. We will go to the lands across the eastern sea." "Negative," he sent, adding pictures of the distance, the load she would carry, the drain on her system. She was in perfect health, but even the most healthy Power Giver would be seriously drained by such a trip. "But you forget," she chided. "You can heal me. You can join your power to mine." Hope sprang up in him. Then he sent a negation. "In the heat of the union I fleshed with you. I have no feel for it now. I don't think I could do it again, not without the emotional stimulus of the joining." "We could try." T HE problem was that without the flowering of scales that accompanied the physical union there were no flesh areas to bring into contact. Armored hand on armored hand gave a heady and pleasant sensation, but produced not even one spark of that strange power Rack had felt during the union. Rack considered. Every portion of Beautiful Wings' body was protected by her small, decorative and flexible scales, save for the inside of her small jnouth and the inner lids of her eyes. He examined her small, protected lips, used his finger to open them, looked into the pink, toothless maw. Her vestigial tongue was small and pink. His own tongue barely extended past his armored lips. "We can only try," he sent. IF placing his lips on hers, thrusting out his tongue to feel the fleshy interior of her mouth. She giggled. "A sensation not to be despised, dear Rack." "Quiet, I am thinking." Flesh on flesh. A remembering. The glory of union, the softness of her body, the feel of her cells were implanted in his mind. It was, he found, surprisingly simple. He had only to will it and his tongue welded flesh to flesh, melted into her, knew her. Through that small contact of united flesh he sensed the processes of her body, made minor healings. He closed off the contact, knowing a wild elation. He would never have to be without her and his healing abilities would make her as long-lived as he. Only the ruin of his system would bring death to both of them and that would be many, many sun circles away. He knew the feeling of complete victory, and then it was tinged with regret. "I know," she sent. "Responsibility is a heavy thing." She touched him, sending a warm glow through the scales of his arm. "But we can contribute. The people to the east, it is said, are much like us." "But they are not our people." He had, however, no choice. Had he not loved her he would have gone to the council, would have faced his punishment, would have used the forum to try to convince the Far Seers of the importance of his find -- that strange object from the valley of the hot waters. But knowing that his own banishment would abandon Beautiful Wings to the sure fate of Power Givers, early death -- and that he could save her -- he had to take the chance. position made for some difficulty. Mouth to mouth with Rack, flesh welded to flesh, Beautiful Wings drawing not only on Rack's substance, but also utilizing his power of mind to reinforce her own push against the magnetic field of the planet, she had difficulty seeing where she was going. But flying became effortless and without cost to her substance and they worked out a system of mind signals. Sometimes, too, they seemed to share joint vision -- and this was a distinct advantage. Having become proficient in joint flight, Rack guided their soaring movement to a position over Red Earth's establishment. "I am Rack the Healer, bringer of new and startling developments," he sent. "You are Rack the Healer, madman," Red Earth sent angrily, adding astonishment and shock that Rack was once again recklessly using the very life substance of a Power Giver for wasteful and illegal soaring. "I ask only a hearing," Rack sent, "a fair and impartial forum composed of equal numbers of Far Seers and Power Givers and Healers. " "The law," Red Earth sent, "is the law. Your new and startling developments have been judged, after careful study, to be the result of unexplained forces in the depths of space." "The Far Seers err and dream dreams of the unimaginative mind," Rack sent, himself becoming a bit angry. "Much has happened since we last spoke and I showed you the hard new object I brought from my travels and on which you judge me. The object is clearly crafted and must, therefore, be the work of the Old Ones. As such, it should not only receive the attentions of the scholars among the Far Seers, but should also be subjected to the speculations of the scientific Healers. And I demand a trial." "It is the will of nature that the Far Seers hand down the law," Red Earth said. "Tell me, Healer, your justification for continued defiance." "In the interest of the race," Rack said. "In that interest I have traveled far. In that interest I risked death and disgrace and in return I am scorned and judged without a hearing." "In your absence a hearing has taken place," Red Earth said pointedly. "Your flight from justice was your testimony." "If the Old Ones were capable of crafting so unique a material," Rack said stubbornly, "what else could they accomplish? Of how much more than we have shown are we capable? In view of new evidence, I demand a renewed effort to rethink our position. We must learn the lessons of the past for the sake of the future." "You seek to dig in the earth and release death," Red Earth said sadly, seeing behind his words a picture of the valley of hot waters. "This we will not allow. I have been empowered to my sorrow to -- " But Rack was prepared. As the Far Seer gathered his energies Beautiful Wings sent Rack and herself soaring high into the purpling sky, into the regions of nonair, into the coldness of the upper reaches. Yet the bolt from Red Earth's mind found Rack and momentarily dulled his senses. Shocked, he realized that it had Had he not anticipated it and removed himself from the range of Red Earth's lethal reach, he would have been a lifeless form clinging inside Beautiful Wings' field of power, draining her, leaving her without his healing protection. "So be it," he said. Body to body, they accelerated, leaving the zone of the sun for the darkness to the east, sensing the rolling sea beneath them, seeking the land of the east, fleeing those who would kill. IF T HE old man refused to get aboard. He was still in the house as the last few stragglers climbed the car steps. They could see him peering through the window, his face bristling with contempt, his fists white and clenched against the sill... One of the monitors jumped from the last car and climbed the cracked steps, three at a time. "Come out of there," he yelled when he entered the house. "We can't wait any longer." "Nobody asked you to wait," said Ben from the other room. "I told you, I'm not going." The man swore. "That front section has been underway for two hours. She'll go any minute." "Good, by golly, and it can't be too soon." "You old fool, this is no time to pull childish stunts." Ben came out then. "This is no stunt. I'm not going with you. You'd better hustle your tail before you're stuck here with me." The monitor stood in angry indecision for a long moment. Then he hurried out to the train. The old man moved to the window and watched them argue. He knew what was coming next. Taking the gun from behind the books in the bookcase, he checked the load. They came across the road three abreast, pounded up the steps, pushed in through the open door. He stood in the middle of the room with his gun aimed at the first man. "That's far enough." The three stopped and shifted their feet, looked at him uneasily. "We can't leave you all alone," said the oldest. "You'll die." "So will you, one day," said Ben. "What's wrong with you? Why are you doing this?" He answered quietly. "I've got five or six years left, maybe, and I'm not going to spend them looking at some damned horizon no human ever laid eyes on." "That doesn't make sense. Is it the train? Are you afraid it won't take us through?" Ben knew he was wasting his breath but he said it anyway. "I've never cared much how I died, but I'm particular about where." "You can't want to stay on this stinking sewer of a world." The old man's fingers tightened on the gun. "Get out," he said. "Get out of my house. Get off my Earth. Go jump on your kiddy car and ride." "You have to come with us." "The gun says different. I bought it when this scheme was first cooked up and I didn't buy it for fun. I'll shoot the first man who tries to drag me out. That includes you." They took turns speaking: IF "We can't wait any longer." "Better come, old man." "You'll die all alone." "You'll never see another human." "You'll never hear another voice." "You'll wish you were dead." "Go to hell," said Ben. They left then. He watched through the window as they boarded the train. Everybody looked back. He saw their faces clearly. No one wept, no one looked regretful. Suddenly the train shuddered. In the next instant it was gone. Without a sound it had fled into the tunnel of time. and a sob leaked from his throat. Steadying himself against the window he dropped the gun on the floor and blinked his eyes. Numbly he rubbed his palms on his shirt. He cocked his head to listen for sounds. The clock in the kitchen gave a little ping. Somewhere a wall squeaked. A faucet in the bathroom dripped and the hotwater tank in the basement hummed. He heard his own breathing. He stood there and knew that these were the sounds he would hear for the rest of his life. He was the only human being in the world. He sat on the porch swing and played his harmonica, and while the sweet tones of Clementine lifted along the avenue he rocked and let his thoughts sift through the lost years and the dead dreams of his lifetime. Presently he dozed. The wind whispered between houses and the sun sneaked through the smog to warm pavements and roofs, to glint upon handlebars and shiny surfaces of bicycles and automobiles. At dusk he awakened. He could see the trees in the park across the boulevard and he thought that in the morning he would go there and live where it was cool and Earthy. He had his dinner and went to bed. At dawn he tied a few cans of food in a sweater, placed his hat on his head and walked out of the house he had lived in for fifty years. There were twelve cabins in the park and he chose the smallest. It contained a kitchen, a bedroom, a tiny bath and a shower stall. After he checked the fridge and bathroom to make sure that everything worked he stood in the doorway and looked out across the grassy clearing. The end of his love affair with the sod upon which he had been born was not far away. He couldn't live long, alone this way. He was old and accidentprone and one day soon he would forget what he was doing or miscount his steps, and that would be that. He wished that he were young again, with the Earth all his, so that he might stride out upon her scarred surface and begin to heal her wounds. He would beg her forgiveness for crimes that had never been his but the race's from which he had sprung and together they measure of his existence until at last death came to them both in the same instant. But it wouldn't be like this. He would die without healing anything and the Earth would be a spaceship that carried of dark universe until one day she herself staggered and died. And then there would be nothing. He crossed the clearing and slumped onto a bench. With the sun warm on his shoulders he closed his eyes and played Old Black Joe on his harmonica. The words beat through his brain, revived old memories. Gone were the days when a boy took his first good look at the world about him and knew with an exultant thrill that he was a powerful creature in an environment of beauty, glory and danger. Gone were his friends, but he wasn't sure he wanted to call them friends. There surely had been one close to him. Could a man live for so long in the same world with so many others without finding one kindred spirit? No, there had been one. But weren't a man's sons his friends? Had there never been a trace of Willa in those angry young men who had cursed him yesterday and forced him to drive them away with a gun? Now they were gone from the Earth, they and all the rest. To a better land? But he knew there was no better land. No matter where they were now it wasn't Earth. A static wail came from the harmonica and he dropped it and buried his face in his hands. He sat on the bench all day and watched the sun drift across the sky. As it was setting he dragged the cot from the cabin, placed it in the clearing and lay down and covered himself. T HE sky was unusually clear and as the stars winked into view he began to count them. He was past fifty when he saw the flashing light in the east. He watched it and tried to remember if there was a satellite in that area, but so many had been tossed into IF the sky that he couldn't keep track any more. The last thing he saw as he closed his eyes to sleep was the flashing light moving across the heavens. Dawn woke him. Rubbing the sleep from his eyes he look drowsily at the sky and then sat up in surthe sun lifted over the horizon and moving along beside it, small but vivid, was a streaking comet. He went into the cabin long enough to wash and eat his breakfast. Then he took his place on the bench once more to watch the sky. By mid-morning he suspected that it wasn't a comet at all. By eleven he was certain of it. The streaking thing could only be a spaceship. Just as the sun reached the center of the sky the ship cracked through the atmosphere and thundered toward the ground. The vessel was a tongue of orange flame, monstrous in length and in girth. Ben placed its origin as somewhere in Europe or Asia. He knew America had never made so large a ship. Heat fanned his face and he threw his hands over his eyes. Still far away from him, the ship's jets cut off and the missile flew silently toward him, floated effortlessly to the ground and landed on its Tinned tail. A man dressed in brown came out of a door and jumped to the ground. He raised a hand to wave and Ben walked to meet him. He was a slender young man with dark eyes and a thin face. Ben carefully looked him over. He wasn't European or Asiatic. It was impossible to place him. Several other people stepped out of the ship and stood looking around. They all resembled the first man and it was impossible to place any of them. "You're too late," Ben said bluntly. "They're all gone." The stranger pushed his hair out of his eyes and smiled. "So we discovered when we were coming in." "They said they called everyone back. You must have been a far piece. Jupiter, maybe? Too bad you didn't come two days earlier. It would have saved you some trouble." The man looked about the clearing as he spoke. "We couldn't get here sooner, but it's no trouble." Ben stared at him. Here was no evasive, ineffectual coward. He thought of the whining creatures who had scrambled at the chance to get away from the foulness they had created. A trembling began behind his knees. How did a man find a needle in a haystack? By what talent did a pilot pick out the spot where the only man in the world stood? "Where you headed?" he croaked. "Earth." "There's nobody here but me. Where do you aim to go now?" The man gave him a keen look. "Why do you ask? Do you want to go someplace else with us?" Ben felt the heat rising up his neck. "I never said that." "You sound as if you want something." Turning his back, Ben spat on the ground. "I got something. Right there." The stranger laughed. "You might say this is new territory for us. Why don't you bring me up to date on what happened here." "Doesn't matter how long you've been gone. The world hasn't changed, not for the better, for fifty years." "Maybe I just want to hear you tell it." "Maybe you just think I'm a lonely old fool and you're feeling big-hearted." T HE man was silent and Ben turned to get a look at his face. Ben saw no pity. What he saw was deep preoccupation with things not concerned with him He began to relax. Looking at the mountain that rose beyond the park, he said, "I could tell it better if we were up , there. We could see the mess." "Then let's go up." "I'm no goat" The man walked away. "I'll give you a hand," he said over his shoulder. With a scowl Ben eyed the retreating back. He wasn't a kid to tag after the first big man he saw. But he followed. They made it to the first high ledge before his legs quit on him. "I can't go any farther," he said and refused the other's hand. "We don't need to." The stranger stood and gazed out at the shattered plateau. "I reckon not," said Ben and winced. "What do you think of it?" "What's that smoke rising from the lake?" "Fumes from garbage and chemicals. You'd be gassed in a minute if you got within a thousand yards of the shore. Right now you're breathing the stuff and you'll be lucky if it doesn't kill you. They're all like that, every lake in the world, every river and sizeable stream." "How do you get water?" "From the oceans, but they're pretty foul too. Most of the fish are dead. Most of everything is dead. There are bugs and rodents, but that's about all. It took a long time to kill Earth but they finally did it." "Where are the forests?" IF "They took the timber long ago. This park is the only one left in the country." The man shook his head. "What about those holes?" "Strip mines. It's like that everywhere. They cut right into Earth's guts and cleaned her out like a turkey and left the wounds just like you see them. They took it all." "Why?" "Why did they every do anything?" "I wish you would pretend I know nothing about it and tell me." Ben watched a sparrow's flight across the barren hill. "Well, about twenty years ago a fellow named Swanson was fooling around with an atomic converter and blew himself and Pittsburgh sky high. At least that's what everyone thought. After the air cleared, the government sent in a team to look the place over, maybe rebuild the city. The team couldn't find anything -- not so much as a stray brick. There was nothing there, just fifty square miles of smooth ground. Mountains, rivers, buildings, machinery, all gone. It looked as if there had never been anything there. It took nearly ten years to find where Pittsburgh went, and it wasn't up in pieces. It went through a tunnel." "What do you mean?" "They called it the tunnel of time," said Ben. "When Swanson blew up the converter he sheared off a piece of space and Pittsburgh went sailing through the hole and landed in another time dimension. I never understood. I don't think anyone else did, either. No two people had the same theory, but that didn't stop them from going in to see what was in that hole. They found Pittsburgh on an uninhabited planet they said was Earth "The team sent back word that the place was perfect for colonization so the government ordered Earth stripped of everything she had that was worth anything. They took out the rest of the metals and shipped it through. The world is a hollow shell now. I figure she's worth about fifty dollars, moneywise." "Then what?" "Everyone got ready to move out. They opened up tunnels in every big city and pretty soon they were building time trains and shipping people out. They went city by city." "How about you?" "My town was the last to go." "But you didn't." B EN kept his eyes on the ruined landscape. He couldn't answer the question he saw in the man's eyes. What sense would it make if he said he had never learned how to be a sardine, had never learned how to lie immobile in the position in which others tried to place him? How could he recount his years of watching people behave like ants, how describe his attempts at comprehending their purposes? It would sound weird if he said that his need to discover greatness, to find something to admire, had led him to look beyond men or beneath them. He had chosen his world as an ideal because its responses corresponded to what a man did with it, because it possessed beauty not as an abstract but as a reality that could be enjoyed with every human sense, because Earth let its abused parts wither and die and didn't construct cheap masks to conceal the scars. He looked at the man and slammed his mind shut upon his secrets. They were his and that fact would always be enough. "I didn't go because I didn't want to," he said. "That's the only reason I had. I'll never leave, so don't ask me if I want to go somewhere with you. If you're going, go ahead but it'll be without me." The man gave him a thoughtful look. "We'd like to stay here and live. We came from the other side of the galaxy for just that purpose." "I don't think I like your sense of humor." The stranger made no reply. Instead he kneeled and picked up a handful of dirt. Ben stared down at the brown neck and blowing hair. "What are you doing?" The man stood up and held out his hand and the wind carried the dirt away. "Wondering how long it will take to make her new again. Which way is the time tunnel?" "There," said Ben.and pointed. "We'll have to close it up. We'll have to close them all up. They're not human any more." Uneasy, Ben said, "Take it easy. You've come a long way." "We're accustomed to long journeys. But let's go back down now. This is all part of the past. Only the future is meaningful." Hastily Ben started down the slope. He slipped and slid over the stones in his hurry to get away from this loony who was going further out of his mind with every word he spoke. As he reached the clearing a hand pressed on his shoulder. "We'll give her new life. She'll blossom like a rose and never grow old again." Immediately Ben was engulfed in old grief. "Sure you will," he mumbled. Standing in the clearing with the IF wind sifting through his hair he had the sudden wish that the strangers would get in their ship and go. He would rather be by himself than spend the rest of his life with a bunch of loonies. But it was only a half-wish. They were comforting loonies, or at least the one he had been talking to was comforting. In some strange way the man had made all the mess seem soft and vague. A light breath of perfume reached . him. He stiffened and turned toward the nearest cabin. A woman stood in the doorway. She was young and she stared back at him with a little smile on her face. All of a sudden Ben felt his face redden. The way she was looking him up and down with that speculative gleam in her eye -- by damn, it was ridiculous -- but if he were forty years younger... Turning away he walked over to a bench and sat down with his back to the cabins. The people going in and out of the ship seemed to be busy. The ship itself -- his thoughts shied away from that and touched on other things. The sun warmed his head and made him drowsy. He would have to keep an eye on the ship. Crazy foreigners with crazy ideas, there was no telling what they had in mind to do. Settling himself more comfortably, he began to brood. How many people were in that bunch? They were all young, not a gray-headed one among them. He felt a slow spurt of resentment. These men and women were out of place on a beatup world with no one in it but a beatup old man. He'd have to keep an eye on them. He intended to, but the sun on his back made him change his mind. His head tilted toward one shoulder and a soft snore startled him. He jerked erect. A moment later his body wilted down onto the bench and he slept. Later it seemed that hands were touching him but his subconscious mind gave no warning of danger. Fingers moved over his skull. Then something capped his head. Somewhere in the distance he heard voices. "Careful with that thing. He must be pushing ninety." "Right. Let's hope this softens the shock for him." Ben was dreaming that he was in a Fishbowl. A silvery, wire-thin trout swam into his ear and on into his brain. He began the other dream at once. He saw a planet adrift in the black of space. Though he had never seen any world other than Earth, something was familiar about this one. And he knew things about it. It was old, terribly aged, and soon it was going to die. As he swam in the sky over the doomed planet he was stricken with grief. This crippled globe was home. Here was the real home. It was where a man went when he was tired of wandering. It was the place of returning. His face wet with tears, Ben mourned for the end of life. As he grieved he saw fiery tendrils lift from the dying world to soar up in space. Hundreds of ships filled with Man sped outward into the cosmos in search of new homes. They scattered in every direction and were lost to one another. Ben followed one of the ships. It landed on an uninhabited planet and the men stayed there to live. They built cities and a long period of time passed. During this period the people found a beautiful bird which they freed in their sky. Wherever the bird flew it showered down glowing drops that fell on the land and transformed it to loveliness. No matter how ugly the land had been before, it became beautiful after the bird flew over it. By and by the people built more ships and went into space. They took the bird with them. They found many planets on which their brothers lived but none were as beautiful as their own. Some of their brothers were savage and hostile, some were peaceful, but they all wanted to borrow the bird. It was released and flew over each of the planets and made them perfect. That was the dream. Ben opened his eyes to the gray evening of Earth. For a moment he was lost and he cocked his head to listen for the sound of beating wings. It wasn't until he stood up from the bench that he let the dream fade. This was reality. This was dying Earth. Here was the birthplace of mankind; here was the only place where men grew. H IS gaze was Fixed on the sky as he walked across the clearing. From the corner of his eye he saw the woman standing in the doorway of the cabin. He wouldn't look at her. He came to a stop. "I had a dream. It was about a big bird." "What did it do?" "It made ugly things beautiful." He turned and gave her a hard stare. "You and your friends know nothing about ugliness and being lonely." She laughed and the lightness of the sound made him angry. She raised one hand and idly twirled something around on her Fingers. It was a metal cap with thin wires IF dangling from it. Ben gave it a glance and turned away. "See?" he said and pointed at the ship. "Funny looking, isn't it? I've been thinking about that. Maybe you don't think it's funny looking. Maybe no one but an Earthman would see anything out of sorts about it." He heard her take a step toward him. "What do you want?" he said. "To live on this planet." His eyes were misty and he had to blink to see. "What am I thinking?" he said. "Am I dead -- or just crazy?" A hand touched his arm. He jerked free, then turned. "Do you make dreams, too?" he said. "Did you bring the bird with you?" "Yes." One word. He hadn't expected it and it rocked him. He couldn't bear to stay there and look at her. She was watching him again with that speculative gleam in her eye. It made no sense. She wasn't wondering about his reaction to anything except herself. Why did it hurt so much when she looked at him that way? He walked away a few paces, pushed his face into the wind. To hell with all of them. He was an Earthman to the core of his soul. They would drive him batty with their weird talk and strange behavior. Let them think or do whatever they pleased. He didn't have to stay here. Knowing he would never see trees like this again, he gave a last long look around. Then he started Some of the original covers and inside illustrations are still available! These are the actual originals used from # through #. Some are already framed. Send stamped selfaddressed envelope for list and prices. Box #, Greenwich Village Station, New York, N.Y. # toward the ship. The young man stood beside the door. The woman had joined him and they were quietly discussing something. "I'm moving on," Ben said as he stopped in front of them. "Been thinking about Arizona. It'll be good for my health." "You don't want to go there," the man said. "I just said I did. Free country, isn't it? I can go where I please." The woman spoke. "Don't you want to see the bird before you go?" He heard the laughter in her tone and anger again rose in him. "Sure," he said coldly. "Let me see it make something beautiful. Some little spot. Can you do that?" "I think so." The man climbed into the ship. That was the moment when Ben began to be afraid. The man hadn't smiled or looked puzzled. He had simply said, I think so, and then he had gone inside the ship. His fists clenched at his sides, Ben began backing away. The woman smiled and he walked faster. He couldn't make his body stop trembling, couldn't make his lungs work. It seemed that the man coming out of the ship with the strange contraption was moving in slow motion. The thing he carried was a tube of silver with three legs. He set it up on the ground and raised his head to look at Ben. "Where's the bird?" Ben whispered. Suddenly he gasped because the silver tube was bending and now it was aimed straight across the clearing. It was aimed at him. They had tricked him. They were going to kill him. Rage Filled his mind and without thinking or caring he began to run toward the man who reached out and touched the silver tube. A ray of light shot from the bore and hit Ben on the chest. He felt nothing but he gave  cry of fury and tried to run faster. All at once he tripped over a root and fell sprawling. Sobbing and cursing, he started to crawl to his feet. It was then that he saw his hands on the grass. The world was abruptly out of focus and he stared at his hands and waited for the moment to pass. It never did. He looked at his right arm. With frozen fingers he rolled up his shirt sleeve and saw the corded muscles. His other arm was the same. He felt his cheeks, his neck, his forehead. The skin was soft and smooth. He wasn't old any more. His dream had been symbolic. The sweet bird of youth had no wings. He scooped up handfuls of his world, gently squeezed the dirt in his fists, turned his head and looked toward the spot where the last train from Earth had fled into the tunnel of time.  IF and i Rutidvr . s writ' .uni vx-rt-in. How would you like to invest in your future by investing in Man's vastest dream? Reader James S. Burns wants to push what may be the soundest plan yet for saving the Space Program: Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I am sure you have received the news of the cancellation of several major emotions I have . Cancer research is vital and domestic transportation is a thing often improved upon only in science fiction. Today's system is obviously inadequate. But some of us are interested in the exploration and development of space for other reasons than to beat the Russians. Early in the century cars seemed an unnecessary luxury, but today they are an economic necessity. While many people today think of space exploration and development as a totally meaningless waste, a few can see the potential of that small ( think about it! -- ed.) portion of matter in the universe that has not yet fallen to Earth. ( Nuclear Engine for Rocket Vehicle Application) project means there will be no manned landing on Mars before I die. The cancellation of the Grand Tour of the Planets is not quite so dismaying, but it is a tragedy nonetheless. The reusable shuttle would possibly have meant trips to the moon for my generation. After having glimpsed the possibility of all these things, itjs now hard to give them up forever. Unless we do something very few of your readers will ever live to see anything but a manned orbital laboratory signal our planet's attempt to understand this universe. The. only chance I see to save any of these projects is to let Congress know we want them -- and want them badly enough to finance them. The Space Bonds program outlined in my letter to my Congressman (and Senator -- copy enclosed) is one way to ensure the survival of some of these programs. It would ensure that the money we citizens want to see used for space is used correctly and the funds would not tempt every social organization in need of a handout. Please think about this. If you want space travel to become a reality , act now. Contact me and for your Senator and ask for further thoughts on this subject. James D. Burns # W. #th A venue Pine Bluff, Ark. #I Please note that Mr. Burns is speaking of investment , not just about making noise. His letter to his Senator suggests a "Space Bonds program similar to the current U. S. Savings Bonds program, with the proceeds to be used to drop because of lack of funds." ( Please turn to page #) I My job, airbody driver. My home, on Venus, in a Heechee hut most of the time -- wherever I happen to be other times when I feel sleepy. Until I was twenty-five I lived on Earth, in Amarillo Central mostly. My father was a deputy governor of Texas. He died when I was still in college, but he left me enough dependency benefits to finish school, get a master's in business administration and pass the journeyman examination for clerktypist. So I was set up for life. After I tried it for a few years I discovered I didn't like the life I was set up for. Not so much for the conventional reasons. I don't mind smog suits and I can get along with neighbors even when there are eight hundred of them to the square mile. I tolerate noise and am able to defend myself against hoodlums. It wasn't Earth itself as much as what I was doing on Earth that I didn't neyman's card, mortgaged my pension accrual and bought a one-way ticket to Venus. Nothing strange about that. What every kid tells himself he's going to do, really. But I did it. I suppose all would have been different if I had had a chance at Real Money. If my father had been full governor instead of civil-service. If the dependency benefits had included Unlimited Medicare. If I had been at the top instead of in the middle, squeezed both ways. Reality ran otherwise, so I opted out by the pioneer route and wound up hunting Terry marks at the Spindle. Everybody has seen pictures of the Spindle, the Colosseum 'and Niagara Falls. Like everything worth looking at on Venus, the Spindle was a Heechee leftover. Nobody had ever figured out what the Heechee wanted with an underground chamber three hundred meters long and spindle-shaped, but it was there, so we used it. It was the closest thing Venus had to a Times Square or a Champs Elysees. All Terry tourists headed for it first. That was where we fleeced them. My airbody-rental business was and is reasonably legitimate if you ignore the fact that there really isn't much worth seeing on Venus that wasn't left there, below the surface, by the Heechee. The other tourists traps in the Spindle are reasonably crooked. Terries don't mind. They load up on Heechee prayer fans and doll heads and those paperweights of transparent plastic in which a contoured globe of Venus swims in a kind of orangebrown snowstorm of make-believe fly ash, blood-diamonds and firepearls. These items aren't worth the cost of their mass-charge back to Earth, but to a tourist who can get up the money or credit for his passage I don't suppose that matters. To people like me the tourist traps matter a lot. We live on them. I don't mean we draw our disposable income from them. I mean that they are how we make our bed and board, or we die. There aren't too many ways of earning IF money on Venus. The ones that might produce Real Money -- winning a lottery, striking it rich in the Heechee diggings, blundering into a well-paying job -- are all long shots. For bread and butter everybody on Venus depends on Terry tourists, and if we don't milk them dry we've had it. Of course, there are tourists and tourists. They come in three varieties. The difference among them is dictated by celestial mechanics. There's the quick-and-dirty kind. On Earth they're just well-todo. They come every twenty-six months with the Hohmann orbit, riding the minimum-energy circuit from Earth. Because of the critical times of a Hohmann orbit they never can stay more than three weeks on Venus. So they come on the guided tours, determined to get dollar minimum cabin fare their rich grandparents had given them for a graduation present or they had saved up for a second honeymoon or whatever. The bad thing about them was that they didn't have much money after paying the fare. The nice thing about them was that there were a lot of them. While they were on Venus all the rental rooms were filled. Sometimes six couples shared a single partitioned cubicle, two pairs at a time; hot-bedding eight-hour shifts around the clock. Then people like me would hole up in Heechee huts on the surface and rent out our own below-ground rooms and maybe make enough money to live a few months. But not enough to live until the next Hohmann-orbit time, so when the Class II tourists came along we cut each other's throats to get at them. They were medium-rich. What -- the ones whose annual income was barely in seven figures. They could afford to come in powered orbits, taking a hundred days or so for the run instead of using the long, slow Hohmann drift. The so there weren't nearly as many but they came every month or so at the times of reasonably favorable orbital conjunctions. And they had more money to spend. So did the other medium-rich ones who hit us four or five times in a decade, when the ballistics of the planets had sorted themselves out into a lowenergy configuration that allowed three planets to come into an orbit that didn't have much higher energy cost than the straight EarthVenus run. These last would hit us first, if we were lucky, then go on to Mars. If they ran the other way around we got the leavings. The leavings were never very much. But the very rich -- ah, the very rioh! They came as they liked, in orbital season or out. ing pad reported the Yuri Gagarin , under private charter, my money nose began to quiver. The arrival was out of season for everybody except the very rich -- the only question on my mind was how many of my competitors would be trying to cut my throat for the Gagarins passengers while I was cutting theirs. Airbody rental takes a lot more capital then opening a prayer-fan booth. I had been lucky -- I bought my airbody cheap when the fellow I worked for died. On Earth it might have been a steal, but on Venus the record was straight. I didn't have too many competitors and a couple of them were US for repairs, a couple more had kited off on Heechee diggings of their own. So, actually, I had the Gagarins passengers, whoever they were, pretty much to myself. Assuming they would be interested in taking a trip outside the Heechee tunnels. I had to assume they would be interested, because I needed the money very much. I had this little liver condition, you see. It was getting pretty close to total failure. As the doctors explained it to me I had three choices. I could go back to Earth and linger a while on external prosthesis or I could get up the money for a transplant. Or I could die. II T HE name of the fellow who had chartered the Gagarin was Boyce Cochenour. Age, apparently forty. Height, two meters. Ancestry, Irish-American French. He was used to command. I watched him come into the Spindle as though it belonged to him and he was getting ready to sell it. He sat down in Sub Vastra's imitation Paris Boulevard-Heechee sidewalk cafe. "Scotch," he said and Vastra hurried to pour John Begg over super-cooled ice and hand it to him, all crackling with cold and numbing to the lips. "Smoke," he said and the girl who was traveling with him instantly lit a cigarette and passed it to him. "Crummy-looking joint," he said and Vastra fell all over himself to agree. I sat down next to them -- well, not at the same table. I didn't even look at them. But I could hear what they said. Vastra didn't look at me either -- I had to let his numberthree wife take my order. Vastra wasn't going to waste any time on me with a charter-ship Terry at his table. "The usual," I said to her, meaning straight alcohol in a tumbler of soft drink. "And a copy of your briefing," I added more softly. Her eyes twinkled at me over her flirtation veil. Cute little vixen. I patted her hand in a friendly way and left a rolled-up bill in it. She left. The Terry was inspecting his surroundings, including me. I looked back at him politely but distantly and he gave me a sort of quarter-nod and turned back to Subhash Vastra. "Since I'm here," he said, "I might as well go along with whatever action there is. What's to do here?" Sub's wide grin gave him the charm of a tall, skinny frog. "Ah, whatever you wish, sah! Entertainment? In our private rooms we have the finest artists of three planets, nautch dancers, music, fine comedians -- " "We've got plenty of that in CinIF cinnati. I didn't come to Venus for a night-club act." He wouldn't have known it, of course, but he was making a good move. Sub's private rooms were well down the list of night spots on Venus, and the top of the list wasn't much. "Of course, sah! Then perhaps you would like to consider a tour?" "Aw." Cochenour shook his head. "What's the point? Does any of it look any different from the scene where we landed? And that's right over our heads?" Vastra hesitated. I could see him calculating second-order consequences, measuring his chances of selling the Terry on a surface tour against what he might get from me as commission. He didn't look my way. Honesty won out -- that is, honesty reinforced by a quick appraisal of Cochenour's gullibility. "Not much different, sah," he admitted. "At least for the next thousand kilometers in any direction. But I wasn't thinking of the surface." "What then?" "Ah, the Heechee warrens, sah! There are many miles of them just below this settlement. A guide could be found -- " "Not interested," Cochenour growled. "Not in anything that close." "Sah?" "If a guide can lead us through them," Cochenour explained, "they've all been explored. Which means they've been looted. What's the fun of that?" "Of course," said Vastra immediately. "I see what you're driving at, sah." He looked happier. I could feel his radar reaching out to make sure I was listening, though he didn't look in my direction at all. "To be sure," he said, "there is always the chance of finding new digs, sah, provided one knows where to look. Am I correct in assuming that this would interest you?" The third of Vastra's house brought me my drink and a thin powderfaxed slip of paper. "Thirty per cent," I whispered to her. "Tell Sub. Only no bargaining, no getting anybody else to bid -- " She nodded and winked. She had been listening, too, and she was as sure as I that this Terry was firmly on the hook. It had been my intention to nurse the drink as long as I could, but prosperity loomed before me. I was ready to celebrate. I took a long happy swallow. But the hook didn't have a barb. Unaccountably the Terry shrugged. "Waste of time, I bet," he grumbled. "I mean, really. If you knew where to look -- why wouldn't you have looked there already?"  "Ah, mister," cried Subhash Vastra, "but there are hundreds of tunnels not explored! Thousands! And in them, who knows? Treasures beyond price!" Cochenour shook his head. "Skip it," he said. "Bring us another drink. And see if you can't get the ice cold this time." down my drink and looked at the facsimile copy of Sub's report on them to see if it could tell me why Cochenour had lost interest. It couldn't. It did tell me a lot, though. The girl with Cochenour was named Dorotha Keefer. She had been traveling with him for a couple of years. This was their first time off Earth. There was no indication that they were married or intended to marry. She was in her early twenties -- real age, not simulated by drugs ana transplants. Cochenour was well over ninety. He did not, of course, look anywhere near that. He moved lightly and easily for a big man. His money came from land and petrofoods -- according to the synoptic on him, he had been one of the fossil fuels to food production, growing algae in the crude that came out of his wells and selling the algae in processed form for human consumption. So he had and turned into something much bigger. And that accounted for the way he looked. He had been on Full Medical, with extras. The report said his heart was titanium and plastic. His lungs had been transplanted from a twenty-year-old killed in a copter crash. His skin, muscles and fats -- not to mention his various glandular systems -- were sustained by hormones and cell-builders at what had to be a cost well over a thousand dollars a day. To judge by the way he stroked the girl sitting next to him, he was getting his money's worth. He looked and acted no more than forty at most -- except perhaps for the expression in his pale-blue, diamond-bright, weary and disillusioned eyes. What a lovely mark! I swallowed the rest of my drink and nodded to the third for another. There had to be a way to get him to charter my airbody. All I had to do was some figuring. Outside the rail of Vastra's cafe, of course, half the Spindle was thinking exactly the same thoughts. This was the worst of the low season -- the Hohmann crowd was still three months in the future and all of us were beginning to run low on money. My liver transplant was just a Httle extra incentive. Of the hundred maze runners I could see out of the corner of my eye ninety-nine needed to cut in on this rich tourist's money as much as I did -- just to stay alive. We couldn't all do it. Two of us, three, maybe even a half-dozen could score enough to make a real difference. No more than that. And I had to be one of those few. I took a deep swallow of my second drink, tipped Vastra's third lavishly -- and conspicuously -- and turned idly until I was facing Cochenour and his woman dead on. The girl was talking with a knot of souvenir vendors, looking interested and uncertain. "Boyce?" she asked over her shoulder. "Yeah?" "What's this thing for?" He bent over the rail and peered. "Looks like a fan," he said. "Heechee prayer fan, right," cried the dealer. I knew him, Booker Allemang, an old-timer in the Spindle. "Found it myself, miss. It will grant your every wish. I get letters every day from people IF reporting miraculous results -- " "Sucker bait," grumbled Cochenour. "Buy it if you want." "But what does it do?" He laughed raucously. "What any fan does. It cools you off." And he looked at me, grinning. stood up and walked over to the table. "Welcome to Venus," I said. "May I help you?" The girl looked at Cochenour for approval before she said, "I thought this was very pretty # "Very pretty," I agreed. "Are you familiar with the story of the Heechees?" Cochenour pointed to a chair. I sat and went on. "They built these years ago. They lived here for a couple of centuries, give or take a lot. Then they went away again. They left a lot of junk behind and some stuff that isn't junk. Among the things they left are a lot of these fans. Some local conman like BeeGee here got the idea of calling them 'prayer fans' and selling them to tourists to make wishes with." Allemang had been hanging on my every word, trying to guess where I was going. "You know it's right," he said. "You two are too smart for that kind of come-on," I told the Terrans. "Still, look at the things. They're pretty enough to be worth having even without the story." "Absolutely!" cried Allemang. "See how this one sparkles, miss! And the black and gray crystal, how nice it looks with your fair hair!" The girl unfurled the crystalline one. It came rolled like a diploma, only cone-shaped. The slightest pressure of the thumb kept it open and it really was very pretty as she waved it gently. Like all the Heechee fans, it weighed only about ten grams, and its lattice caught the lights from the luminous Heechee walls and from the fluorescents and gas tubes and tossed them back in iridescent sparks. "This fellow's name is Booker Garey Allemang," I said. "He'll sell you the same goods as any of the others, but he won't cheat you as much as most of them." Cochenour looked at me dourly, then beckoned Sub Vastra for another round of drinks. "All right," he said. "If we buy we'll buy from you, Booker Garey Allemang. But not now." He turned to me. "And what do you want to sell me?" "Myself and my airbody, if you want to go looking for new tunnels. We're both as good as you can get." "How much?" immediately. "All found." He didn't answer at once, though it gave me come pleasure to notice that the price didn't seem to scare him. He looked as pleasant -- or anyway as unangrily bored as ever. "Drink up," he said as Vastra and his third served us. Cochenour gestured with his glass at the Spindle. "Know what this was for?" "You mean why the Heechees built it? No. They were pretty small, so it wasn't for headroom. And it was entirely empty when it was found." He gazed tolerantly at the busy scene, alcoves cut into the sloping sides of the Spindle featured eating and drinking places like Vastra's or souvenir booths, most of them empty at this idle season. But there were a couple of hundred maze rats around -- their number had been quietly growing all the while Cochenour and the girl had been sitting there. He said, "Not much to see here, huh? A hole in the ground and a lot of people trying to take my money away from me." I shrugged. He grinned again. "So why did I come? Well, that's a good question, but since you didn't ask it I don't have to answer it. You want a million dollars. Let's see. A hundred K to charter an airbody. A hundred and eighty or so to rent equipment, per week. Ten days minimum, three weeks a safer guess. Food, supplies, permits, another fifty K. So we're up to close to seven hundred thousand, not counting your own salary and what you give our host here as his cut for not throwing you off the premises. Right, Walt hers?" So he even knew my name. I had a little difficulty swallowing the drink I had been holding to my mouth, but I managed to say, "Close enough, Mr. Cochenour." I didn't see any point in telling him that I already owned the equipment as well as the airbody -- I wouldn't have been in the least surprised to find out that he knew that, too. "You've got a deal, then. And I want to leave as soon as possible, which sould be about this time tomorrow." "Fair enough," I said and stood up, avoiding Sub Vastra's thunderstricken expression. I had some work to do and a little thinking. He had caught me off base, which is a bad place to be unless you can afford mistakes. My having called him by name had been all right -- he would have known in any case that I had checked him out before the Gagarin had set down. But it was a little surprising that he had known mine. Ill T HE first thing I had to do was double-check my equipment. The second was to go to the local, validate a contract and settle up with Sub Vastra. The third was to see my doctor. The liver hadn't been giving me much trouble for a while, but then I hadn't been drinking grain alcohol for a while. It took about an hour to make sure that everything we would need for the expedition was i.s., with all the spare parts I could reasonably fear I might need. The Quackery was on my way to the union office, so I stopped there first. The checkout didn't take long. The news was no worse than I had been ready for. Dr. Morius studied the readout from his instruments carefully and sold me a hundred and fifty dollars' worth of guarded hope that I would survive three weeks away from his office, provided I took all the stuff he gave me and wandered no more, than usual from his dietary restrictions. "And when I get back?" I asked. "About the same, Audee," he said IF cheerily. "Total collapse in -- ah -- oh, maybe ninety more days." He patted his fingertips. "I hear you've got a live one. Want me to book you for a transplant?" "How live did you hear he was?" I asked. "Oh, the price is the same in any case," he told me good-humoredly. "Two hundred K, plus the hospital, anesthesiologist, pre-op psychiatrist, pharmaceuticals -- you've already got the figures." I did have them and knew that with what I might make from Cochenour, plus what I had put away, plus a small loan on the airbody, I could just about meet the total. To do so left me broke but, of course, alive. "Go ahead," I said. "Three weeks from tomorrow." And I left him looking mildly pleased, like a Burmese hydro-rice man watching another crop being harvested. Dear daddy. Why hadn't he sent me through medical school instead of giving me an education? Heechee had been the same size as human beings, instead of being about forty per cent shorter. In the smaller tunnels, like the one that led to the Local # office, I had to crouch all the way. The deputy organizer was waiting for me. He had one of the few good jobs that didn't depend on the tourists, at least not directly. He said, "Subhash Vastra's been on the line. He says you agreed to thirty per cent -- and besides, youforgot to pay your bar bill to the third of his house." "Admitted, both ways." "And you owe me a little, too, Audee. Three hundred for a powderfax copy of my report on your pigeon. A hundred for validating your contract with Vastra. And if you want guide's papers, sixteen hundred for that." I gave him my credit card and he checked the total out of my account into the local's. Then I signed and card-stamped the contract he had drawn up. Vastra's percentage dollar gross, but on my net -- even so, he might make as much out of the deal as I would, as least in liquid cash, because I'd have to pay off all the outstanding balances on equipment and loans. The factors would carry a man until he scored, but then they wanted to get paid. They knew how long it might be before he scored again. "Thanks, Audee," said the deputy, nodding over the signed contract. "Anything else I can do for you?" "Not at your prices," I told him. "Ah, you're putting me on. 'Boyce Cochenour and Dorotha Keefer, Earth-Ohio, traveling S. V. Yuri Gagarin , Odessa registry, chartered. No other passengers.' No other passengers," he repeated, quoting from the synoptic report he'd furnished. "Why, you'll be a rich man, Audee, if you work this pigeon right." "That's more than I ask," I told him. "All I want is to be a living  " one. That was not entirely true. I did have some little hope -- not much, not enough to talk about and, in fact, I had never said a word about it to anyone -- that I might be coming out of this rather better than merely alive. There was, however, a problem. In the standard guide's contract and airbody leasing terms it says I get my money and that's all. If we take a mark like Cochenour on a hunt for new Heechee tunnels and he finds something valuable -- marks have scored you know; not often, but enough times to keep them hopeful the prize is his. We just work for him. On the other hand, I could go out prospecting by myself at any time and anything I found would be all mine. Obviously anybody with any sense would go by himself if he thought he was really going to find anything. But in my case, that wasn't such a good idea. If I staked myself to a trip and lost I hadn't just wasted time and maybe fifty K in supplies and wear and tear. If I lost I was dead. I needed what I would make out of Cochenour to stay alive. Whether we found anything interesting or not, my fee would take care of the transplant. Unfortunately for my peace of mind I had a notion that I knew where something very interesting might be found -- and my problem was that as long as I had an allrights contract with Cochenour I couldn't afford to find it. T HE next stop I made was in my sleeping room. Under the bed, keystoned into the rock, was a guaranteed break-proof safe that held some papers I wanted to have in my pocket from then on. When I had first come down on Venus I had not been interested in the scenery. I had wanted to make my fortune. I didn't see much of the surface of Venus then -- or for nearly two years after that. You don't see much in the kind of spacecraft that can land on Venus -- a #you need something a little more rugged than the bubble ships that go to the Moon or Mars or farther out. There's not much tolerance in the design for putting unnecessary windows into the hull. It didn't matter much, because everything worth seeing on Venus is in Venus -- and all of it once belonged to the Heechees. Not that we know much about the Heechees. We don't even rightly know their name -- heechee is how somebody once wrote down the sound that a fire-pearl makes when you stroke it. That has remained the only sound connected with the Venusian diggers that anybody knows. The Hesperologists don't know where the Heechees came from, although there are some markings on scraps of stuff that the Heechees used for paper that seem to be a star chart, faded, incomplete, pretty much unrecognizable -- if we knew the exact position of every star in the galaxy # years ago we might be able to locate them from that, I suppose. Assuming they originated in this galaxy. There are no traces of them anywhere else in the solar system, IF except maybe in Phobos. Experts still fight about whether the honeycomb cells inside the Martian moon are natural or artifacts -- if they're artifacts they're, no doubt Heechee. But they don't look much like ours. I wonder sometimes what drove the Heechees. Had they escaped some dying planet? Or come to Venus as political refugees? Had they been tourists whose transportation had broken down between somewhere and somewhere and who had hung around on Venus just long enough to make whatever they had to make to get themselves going again? I used to think that maybe they had come by to watch human beings evolving on Earth, sort of stepfathers beaming over the growing young race -- but we couldn't have been much to watch during their stay in the neighborhood. halfway between the Australopithecines and the Cro-Magnards. They had packed up nearly everything upon leaving Venus, except for a few scraps here and there that either hadn't been worth taking along or had been overlooked. All those . "prayer fans" -- enough empty containers of one kind or another to look like a picnic ground at the end of a hard summer -- some trinkets and trifles. I guess the best known of the "trifles" was the anisokinetic punch, the carbon crystal that transmitted a blow at a ninetydegree angle and made somebody ever found is junk. Did they take all of the good stuff with them? I didn't know, but I did think I knew something that could have a bearing on the answer. I thought I knew where the last Heechee ship had taken off from -- and the spot wasn't near any of the explored diggings. The knowledge wasn't a guarantee of anything, but it was something to go on. Maybe they had been impatient at the end and not so thorough about cleaning up. behind themselves. And that was what my staying on Venus was all about. What other possible reason was there for my being here? The life of a maze rat was marginal at best. It took fifty thousand a year to stay alive. If you had less than that you couldn't pay air tax, capitation tax, water assessment or even buy subsistencelevel food. If you wanted to eat meat more than once a week and demanded a cubicle of your own to sleep in you needed more. Guide's papers cost a week's life -- when any of us bought them, we were gambling that week's cost of living against the chance of a big enough strike to make it possible for us to get back to Earth in the style every maze rat had set as his goal -- with money enough to live the full life of a human being on Full Medical. That was what I wanted. The big score. N OT by accident, the last thing I did that night was visit the Hall of Discoveries. The third of Vastra's house winked at me over her flirtation veil and turned to her companion, who looked around and nodded. I joined them. "Hello, Mr. Walthers," she said. "I thought I might find you here," I said, which was no more than the truth, since Vastra's third had promised to guide her this way. I didn't know what to call her. Miss Keefer would have been accurate, Mrs. Cochenour , diplomatic. I got around both by asking, "Since we'll be seeing a lot of each other, how about getting on to first names?" "Audee, is it?" I gave her a twelve-tooth smile. "Swede on my mother's side, old Texan on my father's. Name's been in his family a long time, I guess." The Hall of Discoveries was meant to get Terry prospects hotted up. It held a little of everything from charts of the worked diggings and a full-scale Mercator map of Venus to samples of all the principal finds. I showed her the copy of the anisokinetic punch and the original solid-state piezophone that had made its discoverer almost as permanently rich as the guy who found the punch. Also displayed were about a dozen fire-pearls, quarter-inch jobbies, behind armor glass, on cushions, blazing away with their cold milky light. "They're pretty," she said. "But why all the protection? I saw bigger ones lying on a counter in the Spindle without anybody even watching them." "That's a little different, Dorotha," I told her. "These are real." She laughed out loud. It was a very nice laugh. No girl is beautiful when she's laughing hard and girls who worry about looking beautiful don't do it. Dorotha Keefer looked like a healthy, pretty girl having a good time, which is about the best way for a pretty girl to look. She did not, however, look good enough to come between me and a new liver, so I took my mind off that aspect of her and put it on business. "The little red marbles over there are blood-diamonds," I told her. "They're radioactive and stay warm. Which is one way you can tell the real from the fake -- also anything over about three centimeters is a fake. A real one that big generates too much heat -- squarecube law, you know -- and melts." "So the ones your friend was trying to sell me -- " " -- are fakes. Right." She nodded, still smiling. "What about what you were trying to sell us, Audee? Real or fake?" The third of Vastra's house had discreetly vanished. Dorotha and I stood alone in the Hall of Discoveries. I took a deep breath and told her the truth. Not the whole truth, maybe -- but nothing but the truth. "All this stuff," I said, "is what came from a hundred years of digging. And it's not much. The punch, the piezophone and two or three other gadgets that we can make work, a few busted pieces of things that they're still studying, some trinkets. That's all." She said, "That was how I heard it. And one more thing. None of the discovery dates on these things is less than fifty years old." She was smart and better informed than I had expected. "And the conclusion," I agreed, "is that the planet has been mined dry. You're right -- on the evidence. The first diggers found everything there was to be found -- so far." IF "You think there's more?" "I hope there's more. Look. Item: the tunnels. You can see they're all alike. The blue walls are perfectly smooth. The light coming from them never varies. Their hardness is consistent. How do you suppose they were made?" "Why, I don't know." "Neither do I. Or anybody else. But every Heechee tunnel is the same and if you dig into any one of them from the outside you find the basic substrate rock, then a boundary layer that's sort of half wallstuff and half substrate, then the wall. Conclusion: the Heechees didn't dig the tunnels and then line them -- they had something that crawled around underground like an earthworm, leaving these tunnels behind. And one other thing -- they overdug. That's to say they dug tunnels they didn't need, lots of them, going nowhere, never used for anything. Does that suggest anything to you?" "The process must have been cheap and easy?" she guessed. I nodded. "So it was probably done by a machine -- and there really ought to be at least one of their machines left somewhere on this planet. Next item: the air. They breathed oxygen as we do and they must have gotten it from somewhere. Where?" "Why, there's oxygen in the atmosphere -- " "Sure. About a half of one per cent. And better than ninety-five per cent carbon dioxide. Somehow they managed to get that half of one per cent out of the mixture cheaply and easily -- remember those extra tunnels they filled -- along with enough nitrogen or some other inert gas to make a breathing mixture. If there's a machine that did it I'd like to find that machine. Next item: aircraft. The Heechee flew around the surface of Venus at will." "So do you, Audee. Aren't you a pilot?" "Sure, but look at what it takes. The surface temperature is twoseventy C and there's not enough oxygen to keep a cigarette going. So my airbody has two fuel tanks, one for hydrocarbons, one for oxidants. And -- did you ever hear of a fellow named Carnot?" "Old-time scientist, was he? The Carnot cycle?" "Right again." That was the third time she'd surprised me, I noted cautiously. "The Carnot efficiency of an engine is expressed by its maximum temperature -- the heat of combustion, let's say -- over the temperature of its exhaust. Well, but the temperature of the exhaust can't be less than the temperature of what it flows into -- otherwise you're not running an engine, you're running a refrigerator. And you've got that two-seventy ambient air temperature -- so you have basically a lousy engine. Any heat engine on Venus is lousy. Did you ever wonder why there are so few airbodies around? I don't mind -- it helps to have something close to a monopoly. But the reason is they're so damn expensive to run." "And the Heechees flew more efficiently?" "I think they did." She laughed again, unexpectedly and once more very attractively. "Why, you poor fellow," she said in good humor. "You're hooked on the stuff you sell, aren't you? You think that some day you're going to find the mother tunnel and pick up all this stuff." I wasn't too pleased with the way things were going. I had arranged with Vastra's third to bring the girl here, away from her boy friend, so I could pick her brains in private. It hadn't worked out my way. She was making me aware of her as a person, which was a bad development in itself. But even worse, she was making me take a good look at myself. I said after a minute, "You may be right. But I'm sure going to give it a good try." "You're angry, aren't you?" "No," I said, lying. "But maybe a little tired. And we've got a long trip tomorrow, so I'd better take you home. Miss Keefer." IV spacepad. It was reached by elevator to the surface lock, a tractor-cab to carry us across the dry, tortured surface of Venus, peeling under the three hundred kmh wind. Normally I kept the ship under a foam housing. You don't leave anything free and exposed on the surface of Venus if you want to keep it intact, not even if it's made of chrom steel. I had had the foam stripped free when I checked out the machine and loaded supplies that morning. Now it was ready. I could see it from the bull's-eye ports of the crawler, through the green-yellow murk outside. Cochenour and the girl could have seen it, too, if they had known where to look, but they might not have recognized it. Cochenour screamed in my ear, "You and Dorrie have a fight?" "No fight," I screamed back. "Don't care if you did. You don't have to like each other, just do what I want you to do." He was silent a moment, resting his throat. "Jesus. What a wind." "Zephyr," I told him. I didn't say any more -- he would find out for himself. Around the spacepad is a sort of natural calm area -- by Venusian standards. Orographic lift throws the meanest winds up over the pad and all we get is a sort of confused back eddy. The good part is that taking off and landing are relatively easy. The bad part is that some of the heavy metal compounds in the atmosphere settle on the pad... What passes for air on Venus has layers of red mercuric sulfide and mercurous chloride in the lower reaches, and when you get above them to those pretty fluffy clouds you find some of them are hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acid. Navigation over Venus is #-D. It's easy enough to proceed from point to point; your transponders will link you to the radio range and map your position continuously onto the charts. What's hard is to find the right altitude -- and that was why my airbody and I were Cochenour. We were at the airbody, and the IF telescoping snout from the crawler was poking out to its lock. Cochenour was staring through the bull's-eye. "No wings?" he shouted, as though I were cheating him. "No sails or snow chains either," I shouted back. "Get aboard if you want to talk. It's easier in the airbody." We climbed through the little snout. I unlocked the entrance and we got aboard without much trouble. We didn't even have the kind of trouble that I might have made. You see, an airbody is a big thing on Venus. I was damn lucky to have been able to acquire one and -- well, I won't beat about the bush: you could say I loved it. Mine could have held ten people, without equipment. With what Sub Vastra's purchasing department had sold us and Local # had certified as essential aboard, it was crowded with just the three of us. I was prepared for sarcasm, at least. But Cochenour merely looked around long enough to find the best bunk, strode over to it and declared it his. The girl was a good sport and there I was, left with my glands all charged up for an argument and no argument. It was a lot quieter inside the airbody. You could hear the noise of the wind right enough, but it was only annoying. I passed out earplugs and with them in place the noise was hardly even annoying. "Sit down and strap up," I ordered and when they were stowed away I took off. wings aren't just useless -- they're poison. My airbody had all the lift it needed built into the seashellshaped hull. I fed the double fuels into the thermojets -- we bounced across the reasonably flat ground around the spacepad (it was bulldozed once a week) and we were zooming off into the wild yellowgreen yonder, an instant later the wild brown-gray yonder, after a run of no more than fifty meters. Cochenour had fastened his harness loosely for comfort. I enjoyed hearing him yell as he was thrown about. That fun didn't last. At the thousand-meter level I found Venus's semi-permanent atmosheric inversion, and the turbulence dropped to where I could take off my belt and stand. I took the plugs out of my ears and motioned to Cochenour and the girl to do the same. He was grinning a little and rubbing his head where he'd bounced into an overhead chart rack. "Pretty exciting," he conceded, fumbling in his pocket. Then . he remembered to ask. "Is it all right if I smoke?" "They're your lungs." He grinned more widely. "They are now," he agreed and lit up. "Say. Why didn't you give us those plugs while we were in the tractor?" tide in the affairs of guides -- they can ride it or be swamped. I could either let my tourists flood me with questions and spend the whole time explaining what that funny little dial means or I could go on to do my work and enjoy as much as I could. It had come to this: was I or was I not going to like Cochenour and his girl friend? For the three of us to live for three weeks in a space about as big as an apartment kitchenette meant everybody would have to work real hard at being nice to everybody else -- and since I was the one who was being paid to be nice I should be the one to set an example. On the other hand, the Cochenours of the worlds are sometimes just not likeable. If that was going to be the case, the less talk the better -- I ought to slide off questions like that with something like, I forgot . But he hadn't actually been unpleasant and the girl friend had tried to be friendly. I said, "Well, that's an interesting thing. You see, you hear by differences in pressure. While we were taking off, the plugs filtered out part of the sound -- the pressure waves -- but when I yelled at you to belt up the plugs passed the overpressure of my voice and you understood it. However, there's a limit. Past about a hundred and twenty decibels -- that's a unit of sound -- " Cochenour growled, "I know what a decibel is." "Right. Past a hundred and twenty the eardrum just doesn't respond any more. So in the crawler it was too loud -- with the plugs on you wouldn't have heard anything." Dorotha had been listening while she repaired her eye makeup. "What was to hear?" "Oh," I said, "nothing, really. Except, well -- " Then I voted to think of them as friends, at least for the time being. "Except in the case of an accident. If we'd had a gust, you know, that crawler could have flipped right over. Or sometimes solid objects come flying over the hills and into you before you know it. Or -- " She was shaking her head. "I understand. Lovely place we're visiting, Boyce." "Yeah. Look," he said, "who's flying this thing?" I got up and activated the virtual globe. "That's what I was just coming to. Right now it's on autopilot, heading in the general direction of this quadrant down here. We have to pick out a specific destination." "That's Venus?" the girl asked. "It doesn't look like much." "Those lines are radio-range markers -- you won't see them through the window. Venus doesn't have any oceans and it isn't cut up into nations, so a map of it isn't like Earth's. That bright spot is us. Now look." I overlaid the radiorange grid and the contour colors with mascon markings. "Those blobby circles are mascons. You know what a mascon is?" "A concentration of mass. A lump of heavy stuff," offered the girl. "Fine. Now look at the known Heechee digs." I phased them in as golden patterns. "They're all in the mascons," Dorothea said at once. Cochenour gave her a look of tolerant approval. "Not all. Look over here -- this little one isn't, nor is this one. But damn near all. Why? I don't know. IF Nobody knows. The mass concentrations are mostly older, denser rock -- basalt and so on. Maybe the Heechee found it easier to dig in. Or maybe they just liked it." In my correspondence with Professor Hegramet back on Earth -- in the days when I didn't have a dying liver in my gut and took an interest in abstract knowledge -- he and I had kicked around the possibility that the Heechee digging machines would only work in dense rock or rock of a certain chemical composition. But I wasn't prepared to discuss that with Cochenour. "See over here, where we are now -- " I rotated the virtual globe slightly by turning a dial -- "that's the big dig we just came out of. You can see the shape of the Spindle. It's a common shape, by the way. You can see it in some of the others if you look -- and there are digs where it doesn' show on these tracings but it's there if you're on the spot. That particular mascon where the Spindle lies is called Serendip. It was discovered by accident by a Hesperological -- " "Hesperological?" " -- a geological team operating on Venus, which makes it a Hesperological team. They were drilling out core samples and hit the Heechee digs. Now these other digs in the northern high-latitudes you see are all in one bunch of associated mascons. They connect through interventions of less dense rock, but only where absolutely necessary." Cochenour said sharply, "They're north and we're going south. Why?" It was interesting that he could read the navigation instruments, but I didn't say so. I only said, "They're no good. They've been probed." "They look even bigger than the Spindle." "Hell of a lot bigger, right. But there's nothing much in them, or anyway not much chance that anything in them is in good enough shape to bother with. Subsurface fluids filled them up a hundred thousand years ago, maybe more. A lot of good men have gone broke trying to pump and excavate them without finding anything. Ask me. I was one of them." "I didn't know there was any liquid water on Venus or under it," Cochenour objected. "I didn't say water, did I? But as a matter of fact some of it was water -- or anyway a sort of oozy mud. Apparently water cooks out of the rocks and has a transit time to the surface of some thousands of years before it seeps out, boils off and cracks to hydrogen and oxygen and gets lost. In case you didn't know it, there's some under the Spindle. It's what you wefe drinking and what you were breathing." The girl said, "Boyce this is all very interesting, but I'm hot and dirty. Can I change the subject for a minute?" Cochenour barked -- it wasn't really a laugh. "Subliminal prompting, Walthers, you agree? And a little old-fashioned prudery, too, I expect. What she really wants to do is go to the bathroom." Given a little encouragement from the girl, I would have been mildly embarrassed for her, but she only said, "If we're going to live in this thing for three weeks I'd like to know what it offers." I said, "Certainly, Dorotha." "Dorrie, if you like it better." "Sure, Dorrie. Well, you see what we've got. Five bunks -- they partition to sleep ten if wanted, but we don't want. Two shower stalls. They don't look big enough to soap yourself in, but they are if you work at it. Three chemical toilets. Kitchen over there -- well. Pick the bunk you like, Dorrie. There's a screen arrangement that comes down when you want it for changing clothes and so on -- or just if you don't want to look at the rest of us for a while." Cochenour said, "Go on, Dorrie, do what you want to do. I want Walthers to show me how to fly this thing." had some traumatic times with parties that came aboard drunk and steadily got drunker, couples who fought every waking minute and got together only to hassle me. This one didn't look bad at all, even apart from the fact that it was going to save my life for me. There's not much to flying an airbody, at least as far as making it move the way you want it to is concerned. On Venus the atmosphere has lift to spare. You don't worry about things like stalling out -- and anyway the autonomic controls do most of your thinking for you. Cochenour learned fast. It turned out he had flown everything that moved on Earth and had also operated one-man submersibles. He understood as soon as I mentioned it to him that the hard part of pilotage was selecting the right flying level and anticipating when you'd have to change it, but he also understood that he wasn't going to learn that in one day. Or even in three weeks. "What the hell, Walthers," he said cheerfully enough. "At least I can make it go where I have to, in case you get caught in a tunnel or shot by a jealous husband." I gave him the smile his pleasantry was worth, which wasn't much. "The other thing I can do," he said, "is cook. Unless you're really good at it? No, I thought not. Well, I paid too much for this stomach to fill it with hash, so I'll make the meals. That's a little skill Dorrie never got around to learning. Same with her grandmother. Most beautiful woman in the world, but had the idea that was all there was to it." I put that aside to sort out later. He was full of little unexpected things, this ninety-year-old young athlete. He said, "All right, now while Dorrie's using up all the water in the shower -- " "Not to worry -- it all recycles." "Anyway. While she's cleaning up, finish your little lecture on where we're going." "Right." I spun the virtual globe a little. The bright spot that was us had already moved a dozen degrees. "See that cluster where our track intersects those grid marks?" IF "Yeah. Five big mascons close together and no diggings indicated. Is that where we're going?" "In a general sense, yes." "Why in a general sense?" "Well," I said, "there's one little thing I didn't tell you. I'm assuming you won't jump salty over it, because then I'll have to get salty, too, and tell you you should have taken the trouble to learn more about Venus before you decided to explore it." He studied me appraisingly for a moment. Dorrie came quietly out of the shower in a long robe, her hair in a towel, and stood near him, watching. "It depends on what you didn't tell me," he said. "There's a no-trespassing sign on most of those mascons," I said. I activated the pilotage chart overlay and bright, cherry-red warning lines sprang up all around the cluster. "That's the south polar security area," I said. "That's where the Defense boys keep the missile range and the biggest part of their weapons development areas. And we're not allowed to enter." He said harshly, "But there's only a little piece of one mascon that isn't off limits." "And that's where we're going," I said. V F OR a man more than ninety years old Boyce Cochenour was spry. I don't mean just healthy looking. Full Medical will do a lot for you -- you simply replace whatever wears out or begins to look shopworn and tatty. You cannot, however, very well replace the' brain, so what you usually see in the very rich old ones is a bronzed, strong body that shakes and hesitates and drops things and stumbles. About that Cochenour had been very lucky. He was going to be wearing company for three weeks. He had insisted I show him how to pilot the airbody. When I decided to use a little flight time to give the cooling system a somewhat premature thousand-hour check, he helped me pull the covers, check the refrigerant levels and clean the filters. Then he decided to cook us lunch. The girl took over as my helper while I restowed some of the supplies to get out the autosonic probes. At the steady noise level of the inside of an airbody our normal conversational voices wouldn't carry to Cochenour, less than three meters away, and I thought of pumping her about him. I decided against it. What I didn't know bothered only my curiosity. I already knew he was paying me the price of a new liver. I didn't need to know what he and the girl thought about when they thought about each other. So our conversation was along the lines of how the probes would fire charges and time the echoes and what the chances were of finding something really good ("Well, what are the chances of winning a sweepstakes? Bad for any individual who buys a ticket -- but there's always one winner somewhere -- ") and what had made me come to Venus in the first place. I mentioned my father's name, but she had never heard of him. Too young, for one thing, no doubt. And she was bom and bred in Southern Ohio, where Cochenour had worked as a kid and where he had returned as a a new processing center there and it had been a lot of headaches -- trouble with the unions, trouble with the banks, trouble, bad trouble, with the government -- so he had decided to take a few months off and loaf. I looked over to where he was stirring up a sauce and said, "He loafs harder than anybody else I ever saw." "He's a work addict. I imagine that's how he got rich in the first place -- " The airbody lurched and I dropped everything to jump for the controls. I heard Cochenour howl behind me, but I was busy locating the right transit level. By the time I had climbed a thousand meters and reset the autopilot he was rubbing his wrist and glowering at me. "Sorry," I said. He said dourly, "I don't mind your scalding the skin off my arm -- I can always buy more skin -- but you nearly made me spill the gravy." I checked the virtual globe. The bright marker was two-thirds of the way to our destination. "Is it about ready?" I asked. "We'll be there in an hour?" For the first time he looked startled. "So soon? I thought you said this thing was subsonic." "I did. You're on Venus, Mr. Cochenour. At this level the speed of sound is maybe five thousand kilometers an hour." He looked thoughtful, but all he said was, "Well, we can eat any minute." Later, while we were finishing up, he said, "I think maybe I don't know as much about this planet as I might. If you want to give us the usual guide's lecture, we'll listen." I said, "Well, you pretty much know the outlines. Say, you're a great cook, Mr. Cochenour. I packed all these provisions, but I don't even know what I'm eating." "If you come to my office in Cincinatti," he said, "you can ask for Mr. Cochenour, but while we're living in each other's armpits you might as well call me Boyce. And if you like it, why aren't you eating it?" The answer was: Because it might kill me... but I didn't want to get into a discussion that might lead to why I needed his fee so badly. I said, "Doctor's orders -- have to lay off the fats pretty, much for a while. I think he thinks I'm putting on too much weight." Cochenour looked at me appraisingly, but only said, "The lecture?" "Well, let's start with the most important part," I said, carefully pouring coffee, "While we're in the airbody you can do what you like, walk around, eat, drink, smoke if you got 'em, whatever. The' cooling system is built for more than three times as many people, plus their cooking and appliance loads, with a safety IF factor of two. Air and water, more than we'd need for two months. Fuel, enough for three round trips and some maneuvering. If anything went wrong we'd yell for help and somebody would come and get us in a couple of hours at most -- probably the Defense boys and they have supersonic bodies. The worst thing would be if the hull breached and the whole Venusian atmosphere tried to come in. If it happened fast we'd be dead. It never happens fast, though. We'd have time to get into suits and we can live in them for thirty hours. Long before that we'd be picked up." "Assuming, of course, that nothing went wrong with the radio at the same time," said Cochenour. "Right. You can get killed anywhere if enough accidents happen at once." He poured himself another cup of coffee, tipped a little brandy into it and said, "Go on." "Well, outside the airbody it's a little more tricky. You've only got the suit and its useful life, as I say, is only thirty hours. It's a question of refrigeration. You can carry all the air and water you want, and you don't have to worry about food, but it takes a lot of compact energy to get rid of the diffuse energy all around you. It takes fuel for the cooling systems and when that's gone you'd better be back in the airbody. Heat isn't the worst way to die. You pass out before you begin to hurt. But the end result is you're dead. "The other thing is -- you want to check your suit every time you put it on. Pressure it up and watch the gauge for leaks. Fll check it too, but don't rely on me. It's your life. And the faceplates are pretty strong -- you can drive nails with them without breaking them -- but they can be broken if hit hard enough. That way you're dead, too." Dorrie said quietly, "One question. Have you ever lost a tourist?" "No." But then I added: "Others have. Five or six get killed every year." "I don't mind odds like that," said Cochenour. "Actually that wasn't the lecture I was asking for, Audee. I certainly want to hear how to stay alive, but I assume you would have told us all this before we left the ship anyway. What I really wanted to know was how come you picked this particular mascon to prospect." This old geezer with the musclebeach body was beginning to bother me. He had a disturbing habit of asking the questions I didn't want to answer. There was a reason why I had picked this site -- it had to do with about Five years of study, a lot of digging and about a quarter correspondence, at space-mail rates, with people like Professor Hegramet back on Earth. But I didn't want to tell him all of my reasons. There were about a dozen sites that I really wanted to explore. If this happened to be one of the payoff places he would come out of it richer than I would -- the contracts specify # to the charterer, # to the guide, the rest to the government -- and that should be enough for him. If it happened not to pay off, I didn't want him taking some other guide to one of the others I had marked. So I only said, "Call it an informed guess. I promised you a good shot at a tunnel that's never been opened and I hope to keep my promise. And now let's get the food put away. We're within ten minutes of where we're going." down and ourselves belted up, we dropped out of the relatively calm layers into the big winds again. We were over the big southcentral massif, about the same elevation as the lands surrounding the Spindle. That's the elevation where most of the action is on Venus. Down in the lowlands and the deep rift valleys the pressures My airbody wouldn't take any of that for very long and neither would anybody else's, except for a few of the special research and military types. Fortunately the Heechee hadn't cared for the lowlands either. Nothing of theirs has ever been located much below twentybar. Doesn't mean it isn't there, of course. Anyway, I verified our position on the virtual globe and on the detail charts and deployed the autosonic probes. The winds threw them all over the place as soon as they dropped free. It didn't much matter where they went, within broad limits, which was a good thing. They dropped like javelins at first, then flew around like straws until the little rockets cut in and the ground-seeking controls fired them to the ground. Every one embedded itself properly. It was a good start. I checked the position of the probes on the detail charts -- the formation was close enough to an equilateral triangle, which was about how we wanted them. Then I opened the scanning range and began circling around. "Now what?" bellowed Cochenour. I noticed the girl had put the earplugs back on, but he wasn't "Now we wait for the probes to feel around for Heechee tunnels. It'll take a couple of hours." While I was talking I brought the airbody down through the surface layers. Now we were being thrown around. The buffeting got pretty bad and so did the noise. But I found what I was looking for -- a surface formation like a blind arroyo -- and tuckeo us into it with only one or two bad moments. Cochenour was watching carefully and I grinned to myself. This was where pilotage counted, not en route or at the prepared pads around the Spindle. Our position looked all right, so I fired four hold-downs, tethered stakes with explosive heads that opened out in the ground. I winched them tight and all of them held. That was also a good sign. Reasonably pleased with myself, I opened the belt catches and stood up. "We're here for. at least a day or two," I said. "More if we're lucky. How did you like the ride?" IF The girl was taking out the earplugs now that the protecting walls of the arroyo had cut the thundering down to a mere constant scream. "I'm glad I don't get airsick," she said. Cochenour was thinking, not talking. He was studying the control board while he lit another cigarette. Dorotha said, "One question, Audee. Why couldn't we stay up where it's quieter?" "Fuel. I carry about thirty hours, full thrust, but that's it. Is the noise bothering you." She made a face. "You'll get used to it. It's like living next to a spaceport. At first you wonder how anybody stands the noise for a single hour. After you've been there a week you miss it if it stops." She moved over to the bull's-eye and gazed pensively out at the landscape. We'd crossed into the night portion and there wasn't much to see but dust and small objects whirling through our external light beams. "It's that first week that I'm worrying about," she said. I flicked on the probe readout. The little percussive heads were firing their slap-charges and measuring each other's sounds, but it was too early to see anything. The screen was barely beginning to build up a shadowy pattern, more holes than detail. Cochenour finally spoke. "How long until you can make some sense out of that?" Another point: he didn't ask what "that" was. "Depends on how close and how big anything is. You can make a guess in an hour or so, but I like all the data I can get. Six or eight hours, I'd say. There's no hurry." He growled, "I'm in a hurry, Walthers. Keep that in mind." The girl cut in. "What should we do, Audee? Play three-handed bridge?" "Whatever you want, but I'd advise some sleep. I've got pills if you want them. If we do find anything -- and remember, if we hit on the first try it's just hundred-to-one luck -- we'll want to be wide awake for a while." "All right," said Dorotha, reaching out for the spansules, but Cochenour demanded: "What about you?" "Pretty soon. I'm waiting for something." He didn't ask what. Probably, I thought, because he already knew. I decided that when I did hit my bunk I wouldn't take a sleepy pill right away. This Cochenour was not only the richest tourist I had ever guided, he was one of the best informed. I wanted to think about that for a while. almost an hour to come. The boys were getting a little sloppy -- they should have been after us before this. The radio buzzed and then blared: "Unidentified vessel at one three Five, zero seven, four eight and seven two, five one, five four. Please identify yourself and state your purpose." Cochenour looked up inquiringly from his gin game with the girl. I smiled reassuringly. "As long as they're saying 'please' there's no problem," I told him and opened the transmitter. "This is Pilot Audee Walthers, airbody Poppa Tare Nine One, out of the Spindle. We are licensed and have filed approved flight plans. I have two Terry tourists aboard -- purpose, recreational exploration." "Acknowledge. Please wait," blared the radio. The military always broadcasts at maximum gain. Hangover from drillsergeant days, no doubt. I turned off the microphone and told my passengers, "They're checking our flight plan. Nothing to worry about." In a moment the Defense communicator came back, loud as ever. "You are eleven point four kilometers bearing one eight three degrees from terminator of a restricted area. Proceed with caution. Under Military Regulations One Seven and One Eight, Sections -- " I cut in, "I know the drill. I have my guide's license and have explained the restrictions to the passengers." "Acknowledged," blared the radio. "We will keep you under surveillance. If you observe vessels or parties on the surface they are our perimeter teams. Do not interfere with them in any way. Respond at once to any request for identification or information." The carrier buzz cut off. Cochenour said, "They act nervous." "No. They're used to seeing us around. They've got nothing else to do, that's all." Dorrie said hesitantly, "Audee, you told them you'd explained the restrictions to us. I don't remember that part." "Oh, I explained them all right. We stay out of the restricted area, because if we don't they'll start shooting. That is the Whole of the Law." IV and the others heard me moving around and got up, too. Dorrie fetched us coffee from the warmer and we stood drinking it and looking at the patterns the computer had traced. I took several minutes to study them, although they were clear enough at first look. There were eight major anomalies that could have been Heechee warrens. One was almost right outside our door. We wouldn't even have to move the airbody to dig for it. I showed them the anomalies, one by one. Cochenour just looked at them thoughtfully. Dorotha asked after a moment, "You mean all of these are unexplored tunnels?" "No. Wish they were. But one, any or all of them could have been explored by someone who didn't go to the trouble of recording it. Two, they don't have to be tunnels. They might be fracture faults or dikes or little rivers of some kind of molten material that ran out of somewhere and hardened and got IF Kings: I # mg. "tar", I .# mg. nicotine, #'s: # mg. "tar", # mg. nicotine King size or Deluxe lOO's. Mild, smooth taste Micronite filter. For all the right reasons. Americas cigarette ago. The only thing we know for sure so far is that there probably aren't any unexplored tunnels in this area except in those eight places." "So what do we do?" "We dig. And then we see what we've got." Cochenour said, "Where do we dig?" I pointed right next to the bright delta of our airbody. "Right here." "Because it's the best bet?" "Well, not necessarily." I considered what to tell him and decided the truth was the best. "There are three that look like better bets than the others -- here, I'll mark them." I keyed the chart controls and the best looking traces immediately displayed letters A, B and C. "I runs right under the arroyo here, so we'll dig it first." "Those three because they're the brightest?" I nodded, somewhat annoyed at his quickness, although the conclusion was obvious enough. "But C over here is the brightest of the lot. Why don't we dig that first?" I chose my words carefully. "Because we would have to move the airbody -- and because it's on the outside perimeter of the survey area. That means the results aren't as reliable as they are for this one right under us. But those aren't the most important reasons. The most important reason is that C is on the edge of the line our itchy-fingered friends are telling us to stay away from." Cochenour laughed incredulously. "You mean you're telling me that if you find a real untouched Heechee tunnel you'll stay out of it just because some soldier tells you it's a no-no?" I said, "The problem doesn't arise just yet -- we have seven anomalies to look at that are legal. Also the military will be checking us from time to time, particularly in the next day or two." Cochenour insisted, "All right, suppose we check them and find nothing. What do we do then?" I shook my head. "I never borrow trouble. Let's check the legal ones." "But suppose." "Damn it, Boyce! How do I know?" He gave it up then, but winked at Dorrie and chuckled. "What did I tell you, honey? He's a bigger bandit than I am." F OR the next couple of hours we didn't have much time to talk about theoretical possibilities. We were too busy with concrete facts. The biggest fact was an awful lot of hot, high-speed gas that we own hotsuit was custom made, of course, and only needed the fittings and tanks to be checked. Boyce and the girl had rental units. They'd paid top dollar for them and they were good, but good isn't perfect. I had them in and out of them a dozen times, checking the fit and varying tensions until they were as right as I could get them. There's a lot of heat and pressure to keep out when you go about the surface of Venus. The suits were laminated twelve-ply, with nine degrees of freedom at the essential joints. They wouldn't fail -- that wasn't what I was worried about. What I was worried about was comfort, because a small itch or rub can become serious when there's no way to stop it. But finally they were good enough for a first trial and we all huddled in the lock and exited onto the surface of Venus. We were still darkside, but there was so much scatter from the sun that it didn't get really dark more than a quarter of the time. I let them practice walking around the airbody, leaning into the wind, bracing themselves against the hold-downs and the side of the ship, while I got ready to dig. I hauled out our first instant igloo, dragged it into position and ignited it. As it smoldered it puffed up like the children's toy that used to be called a Pharaohs' Serpent, producing a light, tough ash that grew up around the digging site and joined in a seamless dome at the top. I had already emplaced the digging torch and the crawlthrough lock. As the ash grew I manhandled the lock to get a close union and got a perfect join first time. Dorrie and Cochenour stayed out of the way when they caught sight of my waving arm, but hung together, watching through their triple vision plugs. I keyed on the radio. "You want to come in and watch as we start it up?" I shouted. Inside the helmets they both nodded. "Come on, then," I yelled and wiggled through the crawl lock. I signaled them to leave it open as they followed me in. With the three of us and the digging equipment in it the igloo was even more crowded than the airbody. They backed away as far as they could get, bent against the, arc of the igloo wall, while I started up the augers, checked that they were vertical and watched the first castings spiral out. The foam igloo absorbs more sound than it reflects. Even so, the din inside the igloo was a lot worse than in the howling winds outside. When I thought they had seen enough to satisfy them for the moment, I waved them out of the crawl-through, followed, sealed it behind us and led them back into the airbody. "So far so good," I said, twisting off the helmet and loosening the suit. "We've got about forty meters to go, I think. Might as well wait in here as out there." "How long is that?" "Maybe an hour. You can do what you like. What I'm going to do is take a shower. Then we'll see how far we've gotten." That was one of the nice things about having only three people aboard -- we didn't have to worry about water discipline very much. It's astonishing how a quick wetdown revives you after you've come out of a hotsuit. When I had finished with mine I felt ready for anything. I was even prepared to eat some of Boyce Cochenour' s gourmet cookery, but fortunately it wasn't IF necessary. The girl had taken over the kitchen and what she laid out was simple, light and reasonably non-toxic. On cooking like hers, I figured, I might be able to survive long enough to collect my charter fee. It crossed my mind for a moment to wonder what made her do it and then I thought, of course, she'd had a lot of practice. With all the spare parts in Cochenour no doubt he had dietary problems far worse than mine. Well, not worse, exactly, in one sense. I didn't think he was quite as likely to die of them. ii probes the highest point of tunnel A was close to tne little blind valley in which I had tied down. That was lucky. It meant that we might possibly be right over the Heechee's own entrance. Not that we would be able to use it as the Heechee had used it. There wasn't much chance that its mechanisms would have survived a quarter of that time to surface wind, ablation and chemical corrosion. The good part was that if the tunnel had surfaced here it would be relatively easy to bore down to it. Even a produce really hard rock, especially without surface water to dissolve out solids and produce compact sediments. out pretty much the way I had hoped. What was on the surface was little more than ashy sand and the augers chewed it out very rapidly. Too rapidly -- when I went back into the igloo it was filled almost solid with castings and I had a devil of a job getting to the machines to switch the auger over to pumping the castings out through the crawl lock. T Mis was a dull, dirty part of the job, but it didn't take long. I didn't bother to go back into the airbody. I reported what was happening over the radio to Boyce and the girl, who were staring through the ports at me. I told them I thought we were getting close. But I didn't tell them exactly how close. Actually we were only a meter or two from the indicated depth of the anomaly, so close that I didn't bother to pump out all of the castings. I just made enough room to maneuver around, then redirected the augers. And in five minutes the castings were beginning to come up with the pale blue glimmer that was the sign of a Heechee tunnel. mitter and shouted: "Boyce, Dorrie -- we've hit a tunnel." Either they had been sitting around in their suits or they dressed faster than any maze rat. I unsealed the crawl-through and wiggled out to help them, but they were already coming out of the airbody, staggering against the wind over to me. They were both yelling questions and congratulations, but I stopped them. "Inside," I ordered. "See for yourself." As a matter of fact, they didn't have to go that far. They could see the color as soon as they kneeled to enter the crawl-through. I followed and sealed the lock behind me. The reason was simple enough. As long as the tunnel wasn't breached, it didn't matter about the lock seal. But the interior of a Heechee tunnel that has remained inviolate is at a pressure only slightly above Earthnormal. Without the sealed dome, the minute we cracked the casing we would let the whole #in, heat and ablation and all. If the tunnel were empty or if what was in it were simple, sturdy stuff, no damage might be done. But if we had hit the jackpot we could have destroyed in a halfsecond what had waited a quarterWe gathered around the shaft and I pointed down. The auger had left a clean shaft, about seventy centimeters by a little over a hundred, with rounded ends. At the bottom you could see the cold blue glow of the outside of the tunnel, only pocked and blotched by the loose castings I hadn't bothered to get out. "Now what?" demanded Boyce. His voice was hoarse with excitement, which was, I guessed, natural enough. "Now we burn our way in." I backed my clients away as far as they could get, pressed against the remaining heap of castings and unlimbered the firejets. I had already hung sheerlegs over the shaft and they went right down on their cable with no trouble until they were a few centimeters above the round of the tunnel. Then I fired them up. You wouldn't think that anything a human being might do would change the temperature of the surface of Venus, but those firedrills were something special. In the small space of the igloo the heat flamed up and around us and our hotsuit cooling systems were overloaded in seconds. Dorrie gasped, "Oh! I -- I think I'm going to -- " Cochenour grabbed her. "Faint if you want to," he said fiercely, "but don't get sick. Walthers! How long does this go on?" It was as hard for me as it was for them. Practice doesn't get you used to standing in front of a blast furnace with the doors off the hinges. "Maybe a minute," I gasped. "Hold on -- it's all right." It actually took a little more than that, maybe ninety seconds -- my suit telltales were shouting alarm for more than half of the time. But the systems were built for these overloads and as long as we didn't cook, the suits wouldn't take any permanent harm. Then we were through. A halfmeter circular section sagged, fell at one side and hung there. I turned off the firejets and we all breathed hard for a couple of minutes while the suit coolers gradually caught up with the load. "Wow," said Dorotha. "That was pretty rough." I looked at Cochenour. In the light that splashed up out of the shaft I could see he was frowning. I didn't say anything. I just gave the jets another five-second burn to cut away the rest of the circular section. It fell free into the tunnel. We could hear it clatter against the floor. Then I turned on my helmet radio. "There's no pressure differential," I said. The frown didn't change, nor did he speak. "Which means this one has been breached," I went on. "Let's go back to the airbody and take a break before we do anything else." Dorotha shrieked, "Audee! What's the matter with you? I want to go down there and see what's inside!" Cochenour said bitterly, "Shut up, Dorrie. Don't you hear what he's saying? This one's a dud." that a breached tunnel opened to a seismological invasion, not to a maze rat with a cutting torch. If so there might be something worthwhile in it anyway. I didn't have the heart to kill all Dorotha's enthusiasm with one blow. So we did swing down the cable, one by one, into the Heechee dig and look around. It was wholly bare, as most of them are, as far as we could see. That wasn't actually very far, for the other thing wrong with a breached tunnel is that you need pretty good equipment to explore it. After the overloads our suits were all right for a couple hours but not much more and when we had tramped about a half-mile down the tunnel without finding tramp back and return to the airbody. We cleaned up and made ourselves something to drink. Even squandering more of the water reserves on showers didn't do much for our spirits. We had to eat, but Cochenour didn't bother with his gourmet exhibition. Dorotha silently threw tabs into the radar oven and we fed gloomily on emergency rations. "Well, that's only the first one," she said at last, determined to be sunny about it. "And it's only our second day." Cochenour said, "Shut up, Dorrie. The one thing I'm not is a good loser." He was staring at the probe trace. "Walthers, how many tunnels are unmarked but empty, like this one?" "How can I answer a question like that? If they're unmarked there's no record of them." "So those traces don't mean anything. We might dig one a day for the next three weeks and find every one a dud." I nodded. "We surely might, Boyce." He looked at me alertly. "And?" "And that's not the worst part of it. I've taken parties out to dig who would have gone mad with joy to have opened even a breached tunnel. It's perfectly possible to dig every day for weeks and never hit a real Heechee tunnel at all. Don't knock it -- at least you got some action for your money." "I told you, Walthers, I'm not a loser. Second place is no good." He thought for a minute, then barked: "You picked this spot. Did you know what you were doing?" Did I? I could have told him about my months of studying records from the first landings on. I could have mentioned how much trouble I went to -- and how many regulations I broke -- to get the military survey reports, how far I had traveled to talk to the Defense crews who had been on those early digs. I might have let him know how hard it had been to locate old Jorolemon Hegramet, now teaching exotic archeology back in Tennessee and how many times he and I had corresponded. All I said was, "The fact that we found one tunnel shows I knew my business as a guide. That was all you paid for. It's up to you if we keep looking or not." He looked at his thumbnail, considering. The girl said cheerfully, "Buck up, Boyce. Look at all the other chances we've got -- and even if we miss, it'll still be fun telling everybody about it back in Cincinnati." He didn't even look at her. "Isn't there any way to tell whether a tunnel has been breached or not without going inside?" "Sure," I said. "You can tell by tapping the outside shell. You can hear the difference in the sound." "But you have to dig down to it first?" "Right." We left it at that. I got back into my hotsuit to strip away the now useless igloo so that we could move the drills. I didn't really want to discuss it any more, because I didn't want him to ask a question that I might want to lie about. I try the best I can to tell the truth -- makes it easier to remember what you've said. On the other hand, I'm not fanatic about it and I didn't see that it was any of my business to correct a mistaken impression. For instance, obviously Cochenour and the girl had the impression that I hadn't bothered to sound the tunnel casing because we had already dug down to it and it was just as easy to cut in. But, of course, I had tested it. That had been the first thing I did as soon as the drill had reached down that far. And the high-pressure thunk had broken my heart. I had had to wait a couple of minutes before I had managed to call out to them that we had reached the outer casing. At that time, I had not quite faced up to the question of just what I would have done if it had turned out that the tunnel had not been breached. C ochenour and Dome Keefer were maybe the fiftieth or sixtieth party I had taken to a Heechee dig and I wasn't surprised coolies. I don't care how lazy and bored they start out, by the time people actually come close to finding something that belonged to IF an almost completely unknown alien race -- left there when the closest thing to a human being on Earth was a slope-browed furry with antelope bones -- they begin to burn with exploration fever. My current clients worked hard and drove me hard -- and I was as eager as they. Maybe more so. As the days went past I found myself rubbing my right side, just under the short ribs, more and more often. The military boys overflew us a half-dozen times in the first few days. They didn't say much, just made formal requests for identification which they already well knew. Regulations say if you find anything you're supposed to report it right away. Over Cochenour's objections I reported finding that first breached tunnel, which surprised them a little, I think. Site B was a pegmatite dike. The other two fairly bright ones that I had called D and E showed nothing at all when we dug, meaning that the sound reflections had probably been caused by nothing more than invisible interfaces in layers of rock or ash or gravel. I vetoed trying to dig C, the best looking of the bunch. Cochenour gave me a hell of an argument about it, but I held out. The military were still looking in on us every now and then and I didn't want to get any closer to their perimeter than we already were. I half-promised that if we didn't have any luck elsewhere in the mascons we'd sneak back to C for a quick dig before returning to the Spindle. We left it at that. We lifted the airbody, moved to a new position and set out a new pattern of probes. By the end of the second week we had dug nine times and come up empty every time. We were getting low on igloos and probes. We had completely run out of tolerance for each other. Cochenour had turned sullen and savage. I hadn't planned on liking the man much when I first met him, but I hadn't expected him to be as bad as turned out. Considering that this whole deal had to be only a game with him -- with all his money the extra fortune he might pick up by discovering some new Heechee artifacts couldn't have meant anything but extra points on a score pad -- he was playing for blood. I wasn't particularly graceful myself, for the matter. The plain fact was that the pills from the Quackery weren't helping as much as they should have. My mouth tasted as if rats had nested in it. I was getting headaches and I was beginning to knock things over. The thing about the liver is that it sort of regulates your internal diet. It filters out poisons, converts some of the carbohydrates into other carbohydrates that you can use -- it patches together amino acids into proteins. If it isn't working you die. The doctor had been over all of it with me and I could visualize what was going on inside me, the mahogany-red cells dying and being replaced by clusters of fat and yellowish matter. It was an ugly kind of picture. The ugliest part was that there wasn't anything I could do about it. Only go on taking pills -- and they wouldn't work past a matter of a few days more. Liver, byebye -- hepatic failure, hello. So we were a bad bunch. Cochenour was a bastard because it was his nature to be a bastard and I was a bastard because I was sick and desperate. The only decent human being aboard was the girl. She did her best. She really did. She was sometimes sweet and often even pretty and she was always ready to meet the power people -- Cochenour and me -- more than halfway. The situation was clearly tough on her. She was only a kid. No matter how grownup she acted, she just hadn't been alive long enough to grow a defense against concentrated meanness. Add the fact that we were all beginning to hate the sight and sound and smell of each other -- and in an airbody you got to know a lot about how people smelled. There wasn't much joy on Venus for Dorrie Keefer. Or for any of us, especially after I broke the news that we were down to our last igloo. Cochenour cleared his throat. He sounded like a fighter-plane jockey blowing the covers off his guns in preparation for combat. Dorrie attempted to divert him. "Audee," she said brightly, "you know what I think we could do? We could go back to that site that looked good near the military reservation." It was the wrong diversion. I shook my head. "No." "What the hell do you mean?" rumbled Cochenour, revving up for battle. "What I said. No. That's a desperation trick and I'm not that desperate." "Walthers," he snarled, "you'll be desperate when I tell you to be desperate. I can still stop payment on that check." "No, you can't. The union won't let you. The regulations are very clear about that. You pay up unless I disobey a lawful directive. You can't make me do anything against the law -- and going inside the military reservation is extremely against the law." He shifted over to cold war. "No," he said softly, "you're wrong about that. It's only against the law if a court says it is -- after we do it. You're only right if your lawyers are smarter than my lawyers. Honestly, Walthers, I pay my lawyers to be the smartest there are." T HE difficult part was that he was even more right than he knew -- my liver was on his side. I couldn't spare time for arbitration because without his money and my transplant I wouldn't live that long. Dorrie, listening with her birdlike look of friendly interest, got between us again. "Well, then, how about this? We just put down here. Why don't we wait and see what the probes show? Maybe we'll hit something even better than that trace C -- " IF "There isn't going to be anything good here," he said without looking at her. "Why, Boyce, how do you know that? We haven't even finished the soundings." He said, "Look, Dorotha, listen close one time and then shut up. Walthers is playing games. You see where we are now?" He brushed past me and tapped out the program for a full map display. His action surprised me somewhat because I hadn't known he knew how. The charts sprang up with virtual images of our position -- the shafts we had already cut, the great irregular edge of the military reservation overlaid on the plot of mascons and navigation aids. "You see? We're not even in the high-density mass areas now. Is that true, Walthers? We've tried all the good locations and come up dry?" I said, "You're partly right, Boyce, but I'm not playing games. This site is a good possibility. You can see it on the map. We're not over any mascon, that's true, but we're right between two of them that are located pretty close together. Sometimes you find a dig that connects two complexes -- and it has happened that the connecting passage was closer to the surface than any other part of the system. I can't guarantee we'll hit anything here, but it's not impossible that we might." "Just damn unlikely?" "Well, no more unlikely than anywhere else. I told you a week ago -- you got your money's worth the first day, just finding any Heechee tunnel at all, even a spoiled one. There are maze rats in the Spindle who went five years without seeing that much." I thought for a minute. "I'll make a deal with you," I said. "I'm listening." "We're down here and there's at least a chance we can hit something. Let's try. We'll deploy the probes and see what they turn up. If we get a good trace we'll dig it. If we don't -- then I'll think about going back to trace C." "Think about it!" he roared. "Don't push me, Cochenour. You don't know what you're getting into. The military reservation is not to be fooled with. Those boys shoot first and ask later -- and there aren't any policemen or courts on Venus even to ask them questions." "I don't know," he said after a moment. "No," I said, "you don't. And that's what you're paying me for. I do know." "Yes," he agreed, "you probably do, but whether you're telling me the truth about what you know is another question. Hegramet never said anything about digging between mascons." And then he looked at me with a completely opaque expression, waiting to see whether I would catch him up on what he had just said. I didn't respond. I gave him back an opaque look. I didn't say a word, simply waited to see what would come next. I was pretty sure that it would not be any sort of explanation of how he happened to know Hegramet's name or what dealings he had had with the greatest Earthside authority on Heechee diggings, and it wasn't. "Put out your probes and we'll try it your way one more time," he said at last. good penetration on all of them, started firing the noisemakers. I sat watching the first buildup of lines on the scan as though I expected them to carry useful information. They couldn't, of course, but it was a good excuse to think privately for a moment. Cochenour needed to be thought about. He hadn't come to Venus just for the ride -- that was clear. He had known he was going to be sinking shafts after Heechee digs before he ever left Earth. He had briefed himself on the whole bit, even to handling the instruments on the airbody. My sales talk about Heechee treasures had been wasted on a customer whose mind had been made up to buy at least a half-year earlier and tens All that I understood, but the more I understood the more I saw that I didn't understand. What I really wanted was to give Cochenour a quarter and send him to the movies for a while so I could talk privately to the girl. Unfortunately, there was nowhere to send him. I managed to force a yawn, complain about the boredom of waiting for the probe traces to build up and suggest a nap. Not that I would have been real confident he wasn't lying there with his ears flapping, listening t? us. It didn't matter. Nobody acted sleepy but me. All I got out of it was an offer from Dorrie to watch the screen and wake me if anything interesting turned up. So I said the hell with it and went to sleep myself. It was not a good sleep, because lying there waiting for it gave me time to notice how truly lousy I felt and in how many ways. A sort of permanent taste of bile lived in the back of my mouth, as though I had just thrown up. My head ached and I was beginning to see ghost images wandering fuzzily around my field of vision. When I took my pills I didn't count the ones that were left. I didn't want to know. I'd set my private alarm for three hours, thinking maybe that would give Cochenour time to get sleepy and turn in, leaving the girl up and about and perhaps conversational. But when I woke up there was Cochenour, cooking himself an herb omelette with the last of our sterile eggs. "You were right, Walthers." He grinned. "I was sleepy. Had a nice little nap. Ready for anything now. Want some eggs?" Actually I did want them, but of course I didn't dare eat them, so I glumly swallowed what the Quackery had allowed me to have and watched him stuff himself. It was unfair that a man of ninety could be so healthy that he didn't have to think about digestion, while I was -- well, there wasn't any profit in that kind of thinking, so I IF offered to play some music. Dorrie picked Swan Lake and I started it up. And then  had an idea and headed for the tool lockers. They needed checking. The auger heads were about due for replacement and I knew we were low on spares. The other thing about the tool lockers was that they were as far from the galley as you could get and stay inside the airbody and I hoped Dorrie would follow me. She did. "Need any help, Audee?" "Glad to have it," I said. "Here, hold these for me. Don't get the grease on your clothes." I didn't expect her to ask me why they had to be held. She didn't. She only laughed. "Grease? I don't think I'd even notice it, dirty as I am. I guess we're all about ready to get back to civilization." Cochenour was frowning over the probe trace and paying us no attention. I said, "Meaning which kind of civilization, the Spindle or Earth?" What I had in mind was to start her talking about Earth, but she went the other way. "Oh, the Spindle, Audee. I thought it was fascinating and we really didn't get to see much of it. And the people. Like that Indian fellow who ran the cafe. The cashier was his wife, wasn't she?" "One of them. She's the numberone wife. The waitress was number three and he has another one at home with the kids. There are five of those -- all three wives involved." But I wanted to go in the other direction, so I said, "It's pretty much the same as on Earth. Vastra would be running a tourist trap in Benares if he wasn't running one here -- and he wouldn't be here if he hadn't shipped out with the military and terminated here. I'd be guiding in Texas, I suppose. If there's any open country left to guide in, maybe up along the Canadian River. How about you?" All the time I was picking up the same four or five tools, studying the serial numbers and putting them back. She didn't notice. "How do you mean?" "Well, what did you do before you came here?" "Oh, I worked in Boyce's office for a while." That information was encouraging. Maybe she'd remember something about his connection with Professor Hegramet. "What were you, a secretary?" "Something like that. Boyce let me handle -- oh, what's that?" That was an incoming call on the radio. "So go answer," snarled Cochenour across the airbody. I took it on the earjack, since that was my nature. There wasn't any privacy to speak of in an airbody and I wanted what little crumbs of it I could find. It was the base calling, a comm sergeant I knew named Littleknees. I signed in irritably, regretting the chance to pump Dorotha about her boss. "A private word for you, Audee," said Sergeant Littleknees. "Got your sahib around?" Littleknces and I had exchanged radio chatter for a long time and there was something about the cheerfulness of her tone that bothered me. I didn't look at Cochenour, but I knew he was listening -- only to my side, of course, because of the earjack. "In sight but not receiving," I said. "What have you got for me?" "Just a little news bulletin," the sergeant purred. "It came over the synsat net a couple of minutes ago. Information only. That means we don't have to do anything about it, but maybe you do, honey." "Standing by," I said, studying the plastic housing of the radio. The sergeant chuckled. "Your sahib's charter captain would like to have a word with him when found. It's kind of urgent, 'cause the captain is righteously kissed off." "Yes, base," I said. "Your signals received, strength ten." The sergeant made an amused noise again, but this time it wasn't a chuckle, it was a downright giggle. "The thing is," she said, "his check for the charter fee bounced. Want to know what the bank said? You'd never guess. 'Insufficient funds,' that's what they said." The pain under my right lower ribs was permanent, but right then it seemed to get a lot worse. I gritted my teeth. "Ah, Sergeant Littleknees," I croaked, "can you -- ah -- verify that estimate?" "Sorry, honey," she buzzed sympathetically in my ear. "But there's no doubt in the world. Captain got a credit report on him and it turned up n.g. When your customer gets back to the Spindle there'll be a make-good warrant waiting for him." "Thank you for the synoptic report." I said hollowly. "I will verify departure time before we take off." And I turned off the radio and client. "What the hell's the matter with you, Walthers?" he growled. But I wasn't hearing his voice. I was hearing what the happy fellow at the Quackery had told me. The equations were unforgettable. Cash  new liver  happy survival. No cash  total hepatic failure  death. And my cash supply had just dried up. IX piece of news you have to let it trickle through your system and get thoroughly absorbed before you do anything about it. It isn't a matter of seeing the implications. I saw them right away -- you bet. It's a matter of letting the system reach equilibrium. So I puttered for a minute. I listened to Tschaikowsky. I made sure the radio switch was off so as not to waste power. I checked the synoptic plot. It would have been nice if there had been something to show, but the way things were. going there wouldn't be, of course, and there wasn't. A few pale echoes were building up. But nothing with the shape of a IF Heechee dig and nothing very bright. The data were still coming in, but there was no way for those feeble plots to turn into the mother lode that could save us all, even broke bastard Cochenour. I looked out at as much of the sky as I could to see how the weather was. It didn't matter, of course, but some of the high white calomel clouds were scudding among the purples and yellows of the other mercury halides. It was beautiful and I hated it. Cochenour had forgotten about his omelette and was watching me thoughtfully. So was Dorrie, still holding the augers in their greasepaper wrap. I grinned at her. "Pretty," I said, referring to the music. The Auckland Philharmonic was just getting to the part where the little swans come out arm in arm and do a fast, bouncy pas de quatre across the stage. It has always been one of my favorite parts of Swan Lake. "We'll listen to the rest of it later," I said and snapped it off. "All right," snarled Cochenour, "what's going on?" I sat down on an igloo pack and lit a cigarette, because one of the adjustments my internal system had made had been to calculate that we didn't have to worry much about coddling our oxygen supply any more. I said, "There's a question that's bothering me, Cochenour. How did you get on to Professor Hegramet?" He grinned and relaxed. "Is that all that's on your mind? I checked out the place before I came. Why not?" "No reason, except that you let me think you didn't know a thing." He shrugged. "If you had any brains you'd know I didn't get rich by being stupid. You think without knowing what I was coming to?" "No, you wouldn't, but you did your best to make me think you would. No matter. So you dug up somebody who could point you to whatever was worth stealing on Venus and somebody steered you to Hegramet. Then what? Did he tell you I was dumb enough to be your boy?" Cochenour wasn't quite as relaxed, but he wasn't aggressive either. He said, "Hegramet told me you were the right guide to find a virgin tunnel. That's all -- except briefing me on the Heechee and so on. If you hadn't come to us I would have come to you. You just saved me the trouble." I said, a little surprised, "You know, I think you're telling me the truth. Except you left out one thing -- it wasn't the fun of making more money that you were after, it was just money, right? Money that you needed." I turned to Dorotha, who was standing frozen with the augers in her hand. "How about it, Dorrie? Did you know the old man was broke?" Putting it that way was not too smart. I saw what she was about to do just before she did it, and I jumped off the igloo. I was a little too late. She dropped the augers before I could get them from her, but fortunately they landed flat and the blades weren't chipped. I picked them up and put them away. She had answered the question well enough. I said, "I see you didn't know. Tough on you, doll. His check to the captain of the Gagarin is still bouncing and I would imagine the one he gave me isn't going to be much better. I hope you got it in furs and jewels -- and my advice to you is to hide them before the creditors want them back." She didn't even look at me. She was only looking at Cochenour, whose expression was all the confirmation she needed. I don't know what I expected from her, rage or reproaches or tears. What she did was whisper, "Oh, Boyce, I'm so sorry -- " and she went over and put her arm around him. because I didn't like looking at him. The strapping ninetyyear-old buck on Full Medical had turned into a defeated old man. For the First time he looked all of his age and maybe a little more -- the mouth half open and trembling, the straight back stooped, the bright blue eyes watering. She stroked him and crooned to him. I looked at the synoptic web again for lack of anything better to do. It was about as clear as it was going to get and it was empty. We had nearly a fifty per cent overlap from our previous soundings, so I could tell that the interesting-looking scratches at one edge were nothing to get excited about. We had checked' them out already. They were only ghosts. No rescue there. I felt oddly relaxed. There was something tranquilizing about the realization that I had nothing much left to lose. Matters had fallen into a different perspective. I had not given up completely. There were still things I could do. They might not have anything to do with prolonging my life, but the taste in my mouth and the pain in my gut weren't letting me enjoy life very much anyway. I could, for instance, write Audee Walthers off. And since only a miracle could keep me from dying in a matter of days I could use what time I had for something else. What else? Well, Dorrie was a nice kid. I could fly the airbody back to the Spindle, turn Cochenour over to the gendarmes and spend my last day or so introducing her around. Vastra or BeeGee would help her get organized. She might not even have to go into prostitution or the rackets. The high season wasn't that far off and she would do well with a little booth of prayer fans and Heechee lucky pieces for the Terry tourists. Maybe that wasn't much, even from her point of view, but it was something. Or I could fling myself on the mercy of the Quackery. They might let me have the new liver on credit. The only reason I had for thinking they wouldn't was that they never had. Or I could open the two-fuel valves and let them mix for ten minutes or so before hitting the igniter. The explosion wouldn't IF leave much of the airbody or us -- and nothing at all of our problems. "Oh, hell," I said. "Buck up, Cochenour. We're not dead yet." He looked at me for a minute. He patted Dome's shoulder and pushed her gently away. He said, "I will be, soon enough. I'm sorry about all this, Dorotha. And I'm sorry about your check, Walthers. I expect you needed the money." "You have no idea." He said with difficulty, "Do you want me to explain?" "I don't see that it makes any difference, but -- yes, out of curiosity I do." # I let him tell me and he did it steadily and succinctly. I could have guessed. A man his age is either very, very rich or dead. He was only quite rich. He had kept his industries going on what was left after he siphoned off the costs of transplant and treatment, calciphylaxis and prosthesis, protein regeneration here, cholesthis, a hundred grand a week for that... oh, it went -- I could see that. "You just don't know," he said, "what it takes to keep a hundredyear-old man alive until you try it." I corrected him automatically. "Ninety, you mean." "No, not ninety -- and not even a hundred. I think it's at least a hundred and ten and it could be more. Who counts? You pay the doctors and they patch you up for a month or two. You wouldn't know." Oh, wouldn't I just, I said, but not out loud. I let him go on, telling about how the federal inspectors were closing in and he skipped Earth to make his fortune all over again on Venus. But I wasn't listening any more, I was writing on the back of a navigation form. When I finished I passed the paper to Cochenour. "Sign it," I said. "What is it?" "Does it matter? You don't have any choice, do you? But it's a release from the all-rights section of our charter agreement -- you acknowledge you have no claim, that your check is rubber and that you voluntarily waive your ownership of anything we find in my favor." He frowned. "What's this bit at the end?" "That's where I give you ten per cent of anything we do find -- if we do find anything." "That's charity," he said, but he was signing. "I don't mind charity, especially since, as you point out, I don't have any choice. But I can read that web as well as you can, Walthers, and there's nothing on it to find." "No," I said, folding the paper and putting it in my pocket. "But we're not going to dig here. That trace is as bare as your bank account. What we're going to do is dig trace C." thought for a minute. I was wondering how much to tell them of what I had spent five years finding out and figuring out, schooling myself not even to hint at what I knew to anyone. I was sure in my mind that nothing I said would make a difference, but the words didn't want to say themselves anyway. I made myself speak. "You remember Subhash Vastra, the fellow who ran the trap where I met you. He came to Venus with the military. He was a weapons specialist so he went into the cafe business when they terminated him, but he was pretty big at it in the service." Dorrie said, "Do you mean there are Heechee weapons on the reservation?" "No. Nobody has ever found a Heechee weapon. But they have found targets." It was actually physically difficult for me to speak the next part, but I got it out. "Anyway, Sub Vastra says they were targets. The higher brass wasn't sure and I think the matter has been pigeonholed on the reservation by now. But they found triangular pieces of Heechee wall material -- that blue, light-emitting stuff they lined the tunnels with. There were dozens of them and they all had a pattern of radiating lines -- Sub said they looked like , targets to him. And they had been drilled through by something that left the holes chalky as talc. Do you know anything that would do that to Heechee wall material?" Dorrie was about to say she didn't but Cochenour interrupted her. "That's impossible," he said flatly. "Right. That's what the brass said. They decided it had to be done in the process of fabrication, for some Heechee purpose we'll never know. But Vastra says not. He says they looked exactly like the paper targets from the firing range under the reservation. The holes weren't all in the same place. The lines looked like scoring markers. That's evidence he's right. Not proof. But evidence." "And you think you can find the gun that made those holes where we marked trace C ?" I hesitated. "I wouldn't put it that strongly. Call it hope. But there is one more thing. "These targets were turned up by a prospector nearly forty years ago. He turned them in, reported his find, went out looking for more and got killed. That happened a lot in those days. No one paid much attention until some military types got a look at them -- and that's how come the reservation is where it is. They spotted the site where he had reported finding them, staked out everything for a thousand kilometers around and labeled it all off limits. And they dug and dug, turned up about a dozen Heechee tunnels, but most of them bare and the rest cracked and spoiled." "Then there's nothing there," growled Cochenour, looking perplexed. "There's nothing they found," I corrected him. "But in those days prospectors lied a lot. He reported the wrong location for the find. At the time he was shacked up with a young lady who later married a man named Allemang and her son is a friend of mine. He IF had a map. The right location, as near as I can figure-v-the navigation marks weren't what they are now -- is right about where we are now, give or take some. I saw digging marks a couple of times and I think they were his." I slipped the little private magnetofiche out of my pocket and put it into the virtual map display; it showed a single mark, an orange X. "That's where I think we might find the weapon, somewhere near that X. And as you can see, the only undug indication there is good old trace C." Silence for a minute. I listened to the distant outside howl of the wind, waiting for them to say something. Dorrie was looking troubled. "I don't know if I like trying to find a new weapon," she said. "It's -- it's like bringing back the bad old days again." I shrugged. Cochenour, beginning to look more like himself again, said, "The point isn't whether we really want to find a weapon, is it? The point is that we want to find an untapped Heechee dig for whatever is in it -- but the soldiers think there might be a weapon somewhere around, so they aren't going to let us dig, right? They'll shoot us first and ask questions later. Wasn't that what you said?" "So how do you propose to get around that little problem?" he asked. If I were a truthful man I would have said I wasn't sure I could. Looked at honestly, the odds were we would # get caught and very likely shot. But we had so little to lose, Cochenour and I, that I didn't think that important enough to mention. I said, "We try to fool them. We send the airbody off and you and I stay behind to do the digging. If they think we're gone they won't be keeping us under surveillance. All we have to worry about is being picked up on a routine perimeter search." "Audee!" cried the girl. "If you and Boyce stay here -- But that means I have to take the airbody and I can't fly this thing." "No, you can't. But you can let it fly itself." I rushed on: "Oh, you'll waste fuel and you'll get bounced around a lot. But you'll get there on autopilot. It'll even land you at the Spindle." Not necessarily easily or well -- I closed my mind to the thought of what an automatic landing might do to my one and only airbody. She would survive it, though, ninety-nine chances out of a hundred. "Then what?" Cochenour demanded. There were big holes in the plan at this point, but I closed my mind to them, too. "Dorrie looks up my friend BeeGee Allemang. I'll give you a note to give him with all the coordinates and so on and he'll come and pick us up. With extra tanks we'll have air and power for maybe forty-eight hours after you leave. That's plenty of time for you to get there, find BeeGee and give him the message, and for him to get back. If he's late, of course, we're in trouble. If we don't find anything we've wasted our time. But if we do -- " I shrugged. "I didn't say it was a guarantee -- I only said it gave us a chance." person, considering her age and her circumstances, but one of the things she lacked was selfconfidence. She had not been trained to it -- she had been getting it as a prosthesis, from Cochenour most recently, I suppose before that from whoever preceded Cochenour in her life -- at her age, maybe her father. The biggest problem was persuading Dorrie she could do her part. "It won't work," she kept saying. "I'm sorry. It isn't that I don't want to help. I do, but I can't. It just won't work." Well, it would have. Or at least I think it would have. In any event, we never got to try it. Between us, Cochenour and I did get Dorrie to agree to give it a try. We packed up what little gear we had put outside, flew back to the ravine, landed and began to set up for the dig. But I was feeling poorly -- thick, headachy, clumsy -- and I suppose Cochenour had his own problems. Between the two of us we managed to catch the casing of the drill in the exit port while we were off-loading it. And while I was jockeying it one way from above, Cochenour pulled the other way from beneath and the whole thing came down on top of him. It didn't kill him. But it gouged his suit and broke his leg and that took care of my idea of digging trace C with him. X T HE suit leg had been ruptured through eight or ten plies, but there was enough left to keep the air out, if not the pressure. The first thing I did was check the drill to make sure it wasn't damaged. It wasn't. The second thing was to fight Cochenour back into the lock. That took about everything I had, but I managed it. Dorrie was great. No hysterics, no foolish questions. We got him out of his suit and looked him over. He was unconscious. The leg was compounded, with bone showing through. He was bleeding from the mouth and nose, and he had vomited inside his helmet. All in all he was about the worstlooking hundred-and-some-yearold man you'll ever see -- live one, anyway. But he hadn't taken enough heat to cook his brain. His heart was still going -- well, whosever heart it had been in the first place, I mean. It had been a good investment -- it pumped right along. The bleeding stopped by itself except from the nasty business on the leg. Dorrie called the military reservation for me, got Eve Littleknees, was put right through to the base surgeon. He told me what to do. At first he wanted me to pack up and bring Cochenour right over but I vetoed that -- said I wasn't in shape to fly and it would be too rough a ride. Then he gave me step-by-steps and I followed them easily enough: reduced the fracture, packed the gash, closed the wound with surgical Velcro and meat glue, sprayed a bandage all around and poured on a cast. It took about an hour. Cochenour would have come to while we were doing it except I gave him a sleepy needle. Then it was just a matter of taking pulse and respiration and blood-pressure readings to satisfy the surgeon and promising to get him back to the Spindle shortly. When the surgeon was through, still annoyed at me for not bringing Cochenour over, Sergeant Littleknees came back on. I could tell what was on her mind. "Uh, honey? How did it happen?" "A great big Heechee came up out of the ground and bit him," I said. "I know what you're thinking and you've got an evil mind. It was just an accident." "Sure," she said. "Okay. I just wanted you to know I don't blame you a bit." And she signed off. Dorrie was cleaning Cochenour up as best she could, pretty profligate with the water reserves, I thought. I left her to it while I made myself some coffee, lit a cigarette and sat and thought. By the time Dorrie had done what she could for Cochenour, then cleaned up the worst of the mess and begun to do such important tasks as repairing her eye makeup, I thought up a dandy. I gave Cochenour a wake-up needle and Dorrie patted him and talked to him while he got his bearings. She was not a girl who carried a grudge. I did, a few. I got him up to try out his muscles faster than he really wanted to. His expression told me that they all ached. They worked all right, though. He was able to grin. "Old bones," he said. "I knew I should have gone for the recalciphylaxis. That's what happens when you try to save a buck." He sat down heavily, the leg stuck out in front of him. He wrinkled his nose. "Sorry to have messed up your nice clean airbody," he added. "You want to clean yourself up?" He looked surprised. "Well, I think I'd better pretty soon -- " "Do it now. I want to talk to you both." He didn't argue, just held out his hand and Dorrie took it. He stumped, half-hopped toward the clean-up. Actually Dorrie had done the worst of it, but he splashed a little water on his face and swished some around in his mouth. He was pretty well recovered when he turned around to look at me. "All right -- what is it? Are we giving up?" I said, "No. We'll do it a different way." Dorrie cried, "He can't, Audee! Look at him. And the condition his suit's in he couldn't last outside an hour -- much less Help you dig." "I know that, so we'll have to change the plan. I'll dig by myself. The two of you will slope off in the airbody." "Oh, brave man," said Cochenour flatly. "Who are you kidding? It's a two-man job." I hesitated. "Not necessarily. Lone prospectors have done it before, although the problems were a little different. I admit it'll be a tough forty-eight for me, but we'll have to try it. One reason: we don't have any alternative." "Wrong," said Cochenour. He patted Dome's rump. "Solid muscle, that girl. She isn't big, but she's healthy. Takes after her grandmother. Don't argue, Walthers. Just think a little bit. It's as safe for Dorrie as it is for you -- and with the two of you there's a chance we might luck in. By yourself, no chance at all." For some reason his attitude put me in a bad temper. "You talk as though she didn't have anything to say about it." "Well," said Dorrie, sweetly enough, "come to that, so do you. I appreciate your wanting to make things easy for me, Audee, but, honestly, I think I could help. I've learned a lot. And if you want the truth, you look a lot worse than I do." I said with all the sneer I could get into my voice, "Forget it. You can, both help me for an hour or so while I get set up. Then we'll do it my way. No arguments. Let's get going." first was that we didn't get set up in an hour. It took more than two and I was pouring sick, oily sweat before we finished. I really felt bad. I was past hurting or worrying about it. I just thought it a little surprising every time my heart beat. Dorrie did more muscle as promised. Cochenour checked over the instruments and asked a couple of questions when he had to to make sure he could handle his part of the job, flying the airbody. I took two cups of coffee heavily laced from my private supply of gin and smoked my last cigarette for a while, meanwhile checking out with the military reservation. Eve Littleknees was flirtatious but a little puzzled. Then Dorrie and I tumbled out of the lock and closed it behind us, leaving Cochenour strapped in the pilot's seat. Dorrie stood there for a moment, looking forlorn. Then she grabbed my hand and the two of us lumbered to the shelter of the igloo we had already ignited. I had impressed on her the importance of our being out of the wash of the twin-fuel jets. She was good about it -- flung herself flat and didn't move. I was less cautious. As soon as I could judge from the flare that the jets were angled away from us I stuck up my head and watched Cochenour take off in a sleet of heavy-metal ash. It wasn't a bad takeoff. In circumstances like that I define "bad" as total demolition of the airbody and the death or maiming of one or more persons. He avoided those, but the airbody skittered and slid wildly as the gusts caught it. It would be a rough ride for him for the few hundred kilometers north that would take him out of detection range. I touched Dorrie with my toe and IF she struggled up. I slipped the talk cord into the jack on her helmet -- radio was out because of possible perimeter patrols that we wouldn't be able to see. "Change your mind yet?" I asked. It was , a fairly obnoxious question, but she took it nicely. She giggled. I could tell that because we were faceplate to faceplate and I could see her face shadowed inside the helmet. But I couldn't hear what she was saying until she remembered to nudge the voice switch. Then what I heard was: " -- romantic, just the two of us." Well, we didn't have time for that kind of chitchat. I said irritably, "Let's quit wasting time. Remember what I told you. We have air, water and power for forty-eight hours. Don't count on any margin. One or two of them might hold out a little longer, but you need all three to stay alive. Try not to work too hard. The less you metabolize, the less your waste system has to handle. Maybe we can eat some of those emergency rations over there if we find a tunnel and get in -- provided it's unbreached and hasn't heated up too much in don't even think about food. As for sleeping, forget -- " "Now who's wasting time? You told me all this before." She was still cheery. So we climbed into the igloo and started work. The first thing we had to do was clear out some of the tailings that had already begun to accumulate where we had left the drill going. The usual way, of course, is to reverse and redirect the augers. We couldn't do that. It would have meant taking them away from cutting the shaft. We had to do it the hard way, namely manually. It was hard, all right. Hotsuits are uncomfortable to begin with. When you have to work in them, they're miserable. When the work is both very hard physically and complicated by the cramped space inside an igloo that already contains two people and a working drill, it's next to impossible. We did it anyhow, having no choice. Cochenour hadn't lied. Dorrie was as good as a man. The question was whether that was going to be good enough. The other question, which was bothering me more and more every minute, was whether I was as good as a man. The headache was really pounding at me and I found myself blacking out when I moved suddenly. The Quackery had promised me three weeks before acute hepatic failure, but the prognosis hadn't specified this kind of work. I had to figure I was on plus time already. That is a disconcerting way to figure. Especially when ten hours went by and I realized that we were down lower than the soundings had shown the tunnel to be and no luminous blue tailings were in sight. I F WE had had the airbody close by, a dry hole would have been an annoyance. Maybe a big annoyance, but not a disaster. What I would have done was get back in the airbody, clean up, get a good night's sleep, eat a meal and recheck the trace. We were digging in the wrong place. All right, next step is to dig in the right place. Study the terrain, pick a spot, ignite another igloo, start up the drills and try, try again. That was what we would have done. But we didn't have the airbody. We had no chance for sleep or food. We were out of igloos. We didn't have the trace to look at. And I was feeling lousier , every minute. I crawled out of the igloo, sat down in the next thing there was to the lee of the wind and stared at the scudding yellow-green sky. There had to be something I could do. I ordered myself to think. Well, let's see. Could I maybe uproot the igloo and move it to another spot? No. I could break it loose, all right, with the augers, but the minute it was free the winds would catch it and it would be good-bye, Charlie. I would never see that igloo again. Plus there would be no way to make it gas-tight again. without an igloo? Possible, I judged. Pointless, though. Suppose we did hit lucky and hole in? Without an igloo to lock out those twenty thousand destroy the tunnel contents anyway. I felt a nudge on my shoulder and discovered that Dorrie was sitting next to me. She asked no questions, didn't try to say anything at all. I guess it was all clear enough without talking about it. By my suit chronometer fifteen hours were gone. That left thirtysome before Cochenour would come back and get us. I didn't see any point in spending it all sitting where we were. On the other hand, I didn't see any point in doing anything else. Of course, I thought, I could always go to sleep for a while... and then I woke up and realized that that was what I had been doing. You may wonder how a person can sleep in the teeth of a south olar thermal gale. It isn't all that ard. All it takes is being wholly worn out and wholly despairing. Sleeping isn't just to knit the raveled sleeve; it is a good way to shut off the world when the world is too lousy to face. As ours was. But Venus is the last refuge of the Puritan ethic. Crazy. I knew I was as good as dead, but I felt I had to be doing something. I eased away from Dorrie, made sure her suit was belted to the hold-tight ring at the base of the igloo and stood up. It took a great deal of concentration for me to be able to stand up. The effort was almost as good at keeping out care as sleep. It occurred to me that there still might be eight or ten live Heechees in the tunnel and maybe they had heard us knocking and opened up the bottom of the shaft for us. So I crawled into the igloo to see. I peered down the shaft to make IF sure. No. They hadn't. It was still just a blind hole that disappeared into dirty dark invisibility at the end of the light from my head lamp. I swore at the Heechees who hadn't helped us out and kicked some tailings down the shaft on their nonexistent heads. The Puritan ethic was itching me and I wondered what I ought to do. Die? Well, yes, but I was doing that fast enough. Something constructive? I remembered that you always ought to leave a place the way you found it, so I hauled up the drills on the eight-to-one winch and stowed them neatly. I kicked some more tailings down the useless hole to make a place to sit. I sat down and thought. I mused about what we had done wrong, as you might think about a chess problem. I could still see the trace in my mind. It was bright and clear, so something was definitely there. It was just tough that we'd lucked out and missed it. But how? After some time I thought I knew the answer to that. People like Dorrie and Cochenour have an idea that a seismic trace is like one of those underground maps of downtown Dallas, with all the sewers and utility conduits and water pipes marked, so you just dig where it says and you find what you want. It isn't exactly like that. The trace comes out as a sort of hazy approximation. It is built up, hour by hour, by measuring the echoes from the pinger. It looks like a band of spiderweb shadows, much wider than an actual tunnel and very fuzzy at the edges. When you look at it you know that somewhere in the shadows there is something that makes them. Maybe it's a rock interface or a pocket of gravel. Hopefully it's a Heechee dig. Whatever it is, it's there somewhere, but you don't just know exactly where. If a tunnel is twenty meters wide, which is a fair average for a Heechee connecting link, the shadow trace is sure to look like fifty and may be a hundred. So where do you dig? That's where the art of prospecting comes in. You have to make an informed guess. Maybe you dig in the exact geometrical center -- as far as it is given you to see where the center is. That's the easiest way. Maybe you dig where the shadows are densest, which is the way the halfsmart prospectors do, and that works almost half the time. Or maybe you do what I did -- try to think like a Heechee. You look at the trace as a whole and try to see what points they might have been trying to connect. Then you plot an imaginary course between them, where you would have put the tunnel if you had been the Heechee engineer in charge, and you dig somewhere along there. That was what I had done, but evidently I had done wrong. I visualized the trace. The right place to dig was where I had put down the airbody, but of course I had been unable to set up the igloo there because the airbody had been in the way. So I had set up about ten yards upslope. , I was convinced that ten yards was what had made us miss. I was pleased with myself for Figuring it out, although I couldn't see that it made a lot of practical difference. If I had had another igloo I would have been glad to try again, assuming I could hold out that long. But that didn't mean much, because I didn't have another igloo. So I sat on the edge of the dark shaft, nodding sagaciously over the way I had solved the problem, dangling my legs and now and then sweeping in tailings. I think that was part of a kind of death wish, because I know I thought, now and then, that the nicest thing to do would be to jump in and pull the tailings down over me. The Puritan ethic stopped me. Anyway, suicide would have solved only my own personal problem. It wouldn't have done anything for old Dorrie Keefer, snoring away outside in the thermal hurricane. I then began to wonder why I was worrying about Dorrie. The subject was pleasant to be thinking about, but sort of sad. about the tunnel. The end of the shaft couldn't be more than a few yards away from where we had bottomed out empty. I thought of jumping down and scraping away with my bare gloves. It seemed like a good idea. I'm not sure how much was whimsy and how much the fantasy of a sick man, but I kept thinking how nice it would be if the Heechees were still in there and when I scratched into the blue wall material I could just knock politely and they would open up and let me in. I even had a picture of what they looked like: sort of friendly and godlike. It would have been very pleasant to meet a Heechee, a live one that could speak English. "Heechee, what did you really use those things we call prayer fans for?" I could ask him. Or: "Heechee, have you got anything that will keep me from dying in your medicine chest?" Or: "Heechee, I'm sorry we messed up your front yard. I'll try to clean it up." I pushed more of the tailings back into the shaft. I had nothing better to do. After a while I had the hole half full and had run out of tailings, except for the ones that were pushed outside the igloo and I didn't have the strength to go after them. I looked for something else to do. I reset the augers, replaced the dull blades with the last sharp ones we had, pointed them in the general direction of a twenty-degree offset angle downslope and turned them on. It wasn't until I noticed that Dorrie was standing next to me, helping me steady the augers for the first few yards of cut, that I realized I had made a plan. Why not try an offset cut? Did we have a better chance? We did not. We cut. When the drills stopped bucking and settled down to chew into the rock and we could leave them, I cleared a space at the side of the igloo and shoved tailings out for a while. Then we just sat there and watched the drills spit rock chips IF nicely. We didn't speak. Presently I fell asleep again. I didn't wake up until Dorrie pounded on my head. We were buried in tailings, but they weren't just rock. They glowed blue, so bright they almost hurt my eyes. The augers must have been scratching at the Heechee wall liner for hours. They had actually worn pits into it. We looked down and we could see the round bright blue eye of the tunnel wall staring up at us. She was a beauty, all ours. Even then we didn't speak. Somehow I managed to kick and wriggle my way through the drift to the crawl-through. I got the lock closed and sealed, after kicking a couple of cubic meters of rock outside. Then I began fumbling through the pile of refuse for the flame drills. Ultimately I found them. Somehow. Ultimately I managed to get them shipped and primed. I fired them and watched the bright spot of light that bounced out of the shaft and made a pattern on the igloo roof. Then there was a sudden short scream of gas and a clatter as the loose fragments at the bottom of the shaft dropped free. We had cut into the Heechee tunnel. It was unbreached and waiting for us. Our beauty was a virgin. We took her maidenhead with all love and reverence and entered her. XI When I realized where I was I was on the floor of the tunnel. My helmet was open. So were the sidezips of my hotsuit. I was breathing stale, foul air that had to be a smelled every minute of it. But it was air. It was denser than Earth normal and a lot more humid, but the partial pressure of oxygen was about the same. It was enough to live on, in any case. I was proving that by breathing it and not dying. Next to me was Dorrie Keefer. The blue Heechee wall light didn't flatter her complexion. At first I wasn't sure she was breathing. But in spite of the way she looked her pulse was going, her lungs were functioning and when she felt me poking at her she opened her eyes. "We made it," she said. We sat there grinning foolishly at each other, our faces Hallowe'en masks in the blue Heechee glow. To do anything more than that, just then, was quite impossible. I had my hands full just comprehending the fact that I was alive. I didn't want to endanger that oddsagainst precarious fact by moving around. But I wasn't comfortable and after a moment I realized that I was very hot. I closed up my helmet to shut out some of the heat, but the smell inside was so bad that I opened it up again, figuring the heat was better. Then it occurred to me to wonder why the heat was only unpleasant, instead of instantly fatal. Energy transport through a Heechee wallmaterial surface is very slow, but slow. My sad old brain ruminated on that thought for a while and came up with a conclusion: at least until quite recently, some centuries or thousands of years, maybe, this tunnel had been kept cool. Automatic machinery, of course, I thought sagely. Wow, that by itself was worth finding. Broken down or not, it would be worth a lot of fortunes. And that made me remember why we were there in the first place. I looked up the corridor and down, to see what treasures were waiting there for us. Amarillo Central my favorite teacher was a crippled lady named Miss Stevenson. She used to tell us stories out of Bullfinch and Homer. She spoiled a whole weekend for me with the story of one Greek fellow who wanted to be a god. He was king of a little place in Lydia, but he wanted more. The gods let him come to Olympus and he had it made until he fouled up. I forget how -- it had something to do with a dog and some nasty business about tricking the gods into eating his own son. Whatever it was, they gave him solitary confinement for eternity, standing neck deep in a cool lake in hell and unable to drink. The fellow's name was Tantalus, and in that Heechee tunnel I had a lot in common with him. The treasure trove was there all right, but we couldn't reach it. We hadn't hit the main tunnel but a sort of angled, Thielly-tube detour in it, and it was blocked at both ends. We could peer past half-closed gates into the main shaft. We could see Heechee machines and irregular mounds of things that might once have been containers, now rotted, their contents on the floor. But we hadn't the strength to get at them. The suits made us clumsy. With them off we might have been able to slip through, but would we then have had the strength to put them back on again in time to meet Cochenour? I doubted it. I stood there with my helmet pressed to the gate, feeling like Alice peering into her garden without the bottle of drink-me -- and then I thought about Cochenour again and checked the time. It was forty-six hours and some odd minutes since he had left us. He was due back at any time. And if he came back while we were here and opened the crawlthrough to look for us and was careless about the seal at both poison gas would hammer in on us. It would kill us, of course, but besides that it would damage the virgin tunnel. The corrosive scouring of that implosion of gas might wreck everything. "We have to go back," I told Dorrie, showing her the time. She smiled. "Temporarily," she said and turned and led the way. l the Heechee tunnel the igloo was cramped and miserable -- and what was worse was that we couldn't even stay inside it. Cochenour probably would remember to lock in and out of both ends of the crawlthrough. But he might not. I IF couldn't take that chance. I tried to think of a way of plugging the shaft, maybe by pushing all the tailings back in again, but although my brain wasn't working very well I could see that was stupid. So we had to wait outside in the breezy Venusian weather. The little watch dial next to my life-support meters, all running well into the red now, showed that Cochenour should in fact have arrived by now. I pushed Dorrie into the crawlthrough, squeezed in with her, locked us both through -- and we waited. We waited a long time. We could have talked, but I thought she was either unconscious or asleep from the way she didn't move -- and anyway it seemed like an awful lot of work to plug in the phone jack. We waited longer than that, and still Cochenour didn't come. I tried to think things through. There could have been a number of reasons for his being late. He could have crashed. He could have been challenged by the military. He could have gotten lost. But there was another possibility that made more sense than all of them. The time dial told me he was nearly five hours late finally and the life-support meters told me we were right up against the upper maximum for power, near it for air, well past it for water. If it hadn't been for our having breathed the Heechee gases for a while we would have been dead by then. He had said he was a bad loser. He had worked out an end-game maneuver so he wouldn't have to lose. I could see him as clearly as though I were in the airbody with him -- watching his clocks, cooking himself a light lunch and playing music while he waited for us to die. That was no frightening thought. I was close enough to dying anyway for the difference in methods to seem pretty much a technicality -- and tired enough of being trapped accept almost any deliverance. But the girl was involved and the one tiny little rational thought that stayed in my half-poisoned brain was that it was unfair for Cochenour to kill us both. Me, yes. Her, no. I beat on her suit until she moved a little and after some time I managed to make her move back into the crawl-through. There were two things Cochenour didn't know. He didn't know we had found breathable air and he didn't know we could tap the drill batteries for additional power. In all the freaked-out fury of my head, I was still capable of that much consecutive thought. We could surprise him if he didn't wait much longer. We could stay alive for a few hours more -- and when he came to find us dead and see what prize we had won for him he would find me waiting. It must have been a terrible shock to him when he entered the igloo with the monkey-wrench in his hand, leaned over me and found that I was still alive and able to move where he had expected only a well-done roast of meat. The drill caught him right in the chest. I couldn't see his face, but I could guess at his expression. Then it was only a matter of doing four or five impossible things. Things like getting Dorrie up out of the tunnel and into the airbody. Like getting myself in after her, sealing up and setting a course. All these impossible things -- and one other that was harder than all of them, but very important to me. I totaled the airbody when we landed, but we were strapped in and suited up and when the ground crews came to investigate Dorrie and I were still alive. hydrate me for three days before they could even think about putting my new liver in. In the old days they would have kept me sedated the whole time -- now they kept waking me up every couple of hours for some feedback training on monitoring my hepatic flows. I hated it, because it was all sickness and pain and nagging from Dr. Morius and the nurses. I could have wished for the old days back again, except, of course, that in the old days I would have died. But by the fourth day I hardly hurt at all, except when I moved. And they were letting me take my fluids by mouth instead of the other way. I realized I was going to be alive for a while and looked upon my surroundings and found them good. There's no such thing as a season in the Spindle, but the Quackery is all sentimental about tradition and ties with the Mother Planet. They were playing scenes of fleecy white? clouds on the wall panels and the ; air from the ventilator ducts smelled of green leaves and lilac. "Happy spring," I said to Dr. Morius. "Shut up," he said, shifting a couple of the needles that pincushioned my abdomen and watching the telltales. "Urn." He pursed his lips, pulled out a couple of needles and said, "Well, let's see, Walthers. We've taken out the splenovenal shunt. Your new liver is functioning well, although you're not flushing wastes through as fast as you ought to. We've got your ion levels back up to something like a human being's and most of your tissues have a little moisture in them again. Altogether -- " he scratched his head -- "yes, in general I would say you're alive, so presumably the operation was a success." "Don't be a funny doctor," I said. "When do I get out of here?" "Like right now?" he asked thoughtfully. "We could use the bed. Got a lot of paying patients coming in." Now, one of the advantages of having blood in my brain instead of the poison soup it had been living on was that I could think reasonably clearly. So I knew right away that he was kidding me -- I wouldn't have been there if I hadn't been a paying patient, one way or another, and though I couldn't imagine how, out. Anyway, I was more interested in getting out. They packed me up in wetsheets and rolled me through IF the Spindle to Sub Vastra's place. Dorrie was there before me and the third of Vastra's house fussed over us both, lamb broth and that flat hard bread they like, before tucking us in for a good long rest. There was only the one bed, but Dorrie didn't seem to mind -- and anyway at that point the question was academic. Later on, not so academic. After a couple days of that I was up and as good as I ever was. By then I had found out who paid my bill at the Quackery. For about a minute I had hoped it was me, quickly filthy rich from the spoils of our tunnel, but I knew that was impossible. We could have made money only on the sly and we were both too near dead when we got back to the Spindle to conceal anything. So the military had moved in and taken everything, but they had shown they had a heart. Atrophied and flinty, but a heart. They had gone into the dig while I was still getting glucose enemas in my sleep. They had been pleased enough with what they found to decide that I was entitled to some sort of finder's fee. Not much, to be sure. But enough to save my life. It also turned out to be enough to pay off the loosely secured checks I had written to finance the expedition, the surgical fee and hospital costs -- and just about enough left over to put a down payment on a Heechee hut of our own. For a while it bothered me that they wouldn't tell me what they had found. I even tried to get Sergeant Littleknees drunk when she was in the Spindle on furlough. But Dorrie was right there and how drunk can you get one girl when another girl is right there watching you? Probably Eve Littleknees didn't know anyhow. Probably no one did except a few weapons specialists. But it had to be something, because of the cash award -- and most of all because they didn't prosecute for trespass on the military reservation. And so we get along, the two of us. Or three of us. Dorrie turned out to be good at selling fire-pearls to the Terry tourists, especially when her pregnancy began to show. She kept us in eating money until the high season started and by then I found I was a sort of celebrity, which I parlayed into a bank loan and a new airbody, so we're doing well enough. And I've promised that I will marry her if our kid turns out to be a boy, but as a matter of fact I'm going to do it anyway. She was a great help, especially with my own private project back there at the dig. She couldn't have known what I wanted to bring back Cochenour's body for, but she didn't argue and, sick and wretched as she was, she helped me get it into the airbody lock. Actually I wanted it very much. It's not actually a new liver, of course. Probably it's not even second-hand. Heaven knows where Cochenour bought it, but I'm sure it wasn't original equipment with him. But it works. And bastard though he was, I kind of liked him in a way and I don't mind at all the fact that I've got a part of him with me always. # The wanderer carried word from the far stars: Do not destroy! in the design of the spaceship Newtonian. At launch she had carried three reaction mass tanks side by side in what older designers tion. A and B tanks had given their all to rendezvous orbit insertion and had been jettisoned, taking with them the auxiliary thrust chambers and large segments of radiation shielding. There remained the sustainer motor, pile, shielding, C tank -- then the service module and crew sphere, flanked by two modified lunar shuttles. One was topped by a capsule (Penetration Module), the other by a winged Earth Lander. When the Lander was sunward and its shadow fell on the crew sphere it made the ship look like a ceremonial trident hanging in space. Inside the ship, three was anything but a magic number. Paxton and Schemer had taken to sleeping in the Lander and Penetration Module, respectively, to get away from Sullivan and each other. It might be because, for the first time ever, they were traveling at a velocity that would take them out of the solar system unless diminished -- the psychologists at Mission Control had no other explanation for the unforeseen development. But the clash of personalities had arisen three weeks out from Earth and escalated over the weeks following. In the last few days the men had been meeting only to collect their rations at feeding time and had spoken only during routine checks. The trouble might, Schemer thought, have something to do with the visual aspect of what lay ahead. The comet was putting on its full display less than a week from perihelion and the Newtonian was now very close indeed. The awesome miles long and beginning to curve as the nucleus gained speed, was foreshortened out of existence -- they saw only the shockwave of the coma, spraying out from the bright spot of the nucleus, then pushed back by solar wind into a great plume against the stars. The ship's slow rotation swept the head around the forward window like the sweep of a celestial radar, but from the side windows only a faint mist could be seen, fading off into invisibility. Something so big, but only seen from a distance was disturbing, as if the head, too, might vanish as they approached it. By now, however, more detail was showing. They could see shells and smoky patterns in the gas coming off the nucleus, and the bright star of the nucleus itself had become a sunlike disk with spikes projecting from it. Behind the nucleus lay a tunnel of shadow, blurring away at its edges until it vanished into the glowing haze of the tail. Now the coma filled all the sky ahead and was beginning to move across the field of view -- it was time for the Newtonian to match orbit. Hyperbolic orbit, rare indeed -- this comet was a stranger to our solar system and would never return. The three astronauts strapped into their couches and got down to work with a minimum of conversation. Mission Control, too far off in any case to have much effect on the quarrels, was taking a business attitude -- the mission had to go on, whatever the clash of personalities. The ship's rotation was halted. Last refinements were applied to the burn computations and the Newtonian turned away from the comet. The burn was a relatively short one at max chamber temperature, to boost the hydrogen jet past the comet altogether. If those superheated ions impinged on the coma, burning into those fragile shells, all the scientific objectives could be frustrated. There was no chance the crew would let that happen, would take out resentments on the celestial body each man's specialty was now in absolute priority as far as he was concerned. They were much nearer the comet when Schemer saw it next from the observation turret on the crew sphere, as the ship turned back to face it. The fuming gases around it seemed motionless, but after some minutes changes could be detected. The dazzling spikes around the nucleus were no longer sharp, but still too blurred overall by intervening gas and ice crystals for the telescope to resolve them. Probing with radar and laser beams, Paxton could tell even less about them -- he was getting a general reflection from a layer about double the size of the nucleus, which by visual estimate was six hundred miles across. Schemer suspected that the spikes were internal reflections in a cloud of ice fragments orbiting the nucleus, but the changing light patterns he detected might just be due to the movement of gases out and back. "At any rate," he reported, "I can't see any obvious hazards to penetration." "Radar seems to confirm that," Paxton broadcast. "The boundary layer I'm getting seems to be quite clearly defined. If we follow the programed approach we won't run suddenly into any problems." slowly toward the comet, for the signal to journey to Earth and the reply to amble back. A great deal of power was going into the Newtonian signal, to overcome their narrow separation from the sun. Interference had proved unexpectedly serious and Sullivan's clamp-down on personal messages had been the first source of friction IF aboard. It wasn't as if they were overworking fuel cells, with power coming direct from the pile, and Schemer suspected that Sullivan, himself unmarried, was actively jealous of their daily hook-up to their homes. Mission Control should have realized that a man without a wife and children could be most homesick of all and should have arranged for someone to talk personally to the mission commander. But Schemer could hardly suggest that on open circuit with Sullivan right beside him. So Sullivan kept all radio time for business and Schemer and Paxton lost a valued link with home. The Mission Control bleep sounded. "Roger, no visible hazards. We agree that you should prepare for penetration. Confirm launch readiness for final gono go decision, over." Bleep. "Okay, Dave," said Schemer, speaking directly to Paxton for the first time today. He didn't have much against Paxton, really, but he always felt he was talking across Sullivan when he addressed him. Perhaps the same feeling accounted for Paxton's incivility. "Why don't you move across into the PM and I'll follow you through." He put the lens caps back on the turret instruments and stowed them for the next deceleration, then pulled himself feet-first into the center section of the sphere. Sullivan didn't speak as he worked his way across, so neither did he. Personnel selection had been almost wholly successful, he conceded as they checked out the Penetration Module. In space fiction (he'd never time to read any, but he knew just what it was like) at least one member of the crew had to be a maniac, an agoraphobe or something equally hard to detect, bent on aborting the mission five minutes after liftoff. But though the longest space flight yet had fallen down on compatibility, the conflict didn't even touch the mission program. After his unreasonable ruling on the signals Sullivan had found it necessary to impose his authority in a string of minor matters, probably because he knew he had been unreasonable. He, Paxton and Schemer had worked up a real dislike of one another, but they weren't thinking of curtailing the flight. There was a way to curtail the flight, but it was intended for more serious difficulty than this. After perihelion they had an "abort window," a chance to fire the motor and drop right back, returning to Earth three months later. Otherwise, riding outward with the comet as they studied it, they would make their separation burn not far from Earth's orbit and meet Earth itself nine months later. Fifteen months' voyage, or six -- and they were going for fifteen without hesitation. There could still be a scientific payoff if they had to abort. The Lander's cargo space contained payload at present, a much less sophisticated payload than the PM's. If manned penetration of the comet proved impossible they could launch a nuclear device which, hopefully sinking to the nucleus before detonation, would supply some of the data they hoped to get less violently from penetration. The experimental package -- in effect, a complete space probe -- they would leave behind. T HE checks went through without incident and they received a go for launch. They counted down the separation and Paxton turned the craft for Sullivan's visual inspection. Then they moved out laterally and Sullivan turned the Newtonian around once more. The final burn was gentle, the flaring gases missing the PM and the comet, bringing the spaceship to rest in the observation station it would hold for the next fourteen days. The PM traveled on with its original momentum, toward the nucleus. There was no spectacle or sensation when they entered the coma. Like the end of the rainbow, the smoky plumes of gas receded and dissolved before them. Bip; little by little the glow around the nucleus spread above them and below, waxing brighter and separating into bars and columns. Now the spikes were breaking up, visually, into discrete sources, tens, dozens, huning the sunlight along spikes of its own. By the time the streamers of haze completely surrounded the capsule the nucleus ahead was a lattice of light beams with what seemed to be a second sun at its heart. "We're going to slow the ship," Paxton reported, activating fly-bywire. "Much of what looked solid from outside is separating now. There's a huge shell of ice fragments, probably orbiting in clusters, though gravity's so low you can't detect it. If the nucleus itself were more massive we'd probably get a ring like Saturn's. As it is, I don't see any problems in continuing penetration -- we can treat this stuff as weightless and stationary." They burned their chemical motors to slow up -- only briefly, for gravitational acceleration was IF negligible. Making less than five hundred miles an hour, the PM traveled into the three-dimensional ice field. The "descent" was okay -- they could see the solid-appearing surface they were making for and bodies in their path separated visually and on radar in plenty of time to be avoided. Waves of sundriven gas passed them from the huge bergs. "By dead reckoning we're two hundred miles inside," Paxton radioed. The PM' signals were being relayed through the Newtonian to Earth (another reason for the ship's sunward position) and they had had loss-of-signal several times as they passed floating masses. "The concentration of material is increasing and we're cutting speed right now with another thirty-second burn. As well as ice masses we're now seeing dark, rocky fragments, from which all the gases must have sublimed away. They're all of considerable size, up to hundreds of feet across. Our micrometeor counters have not registered any significant increase in impacts -- from which I'd deduce that the smaller rock fragments are being carried out into the tail by sunlight pressure and solar wind. This would seem to confirm the origin of meteors along comctary orbits." "Roger, Dave," Mission Control said eventually. "We're happy with your fuel consumption, as indicated by Mike's last set of figures, but there's some anxiety here about your frequent use of vernier and braking engines. Your last bum should reduce the need for frequent restarts. Of course each engine should be able to take several hundred separate burns, but we'd like you to keep to fewer, longer bums if possible." This was a problem they had foreseen. In a stronger gravity field, descending, they could have kept the motors burning steadily at low thrust -- but for an approach to the comet, with the drawn-out penetration through the rock and ice field, they would have had to come in much too fast. Conversely, if they had started slowly enough to make the penetration on attitude control jets, entry would have taken far too long. But by now the situation had changed. "We're nearing shoals -- that's the best way I can put it," said Paxton. "There's a lot of loose stuff ahead, forming an inclined plane across our line of penetration. I'd say it's material that broke away from the nucleus in the first major solar heating, before the coma began to form and scatter the incident radiation. This ahead of us is the lighter stuff, beginning to drift L# backward as the cloud of new fragments takes up a conical shape. Its transverse velocity is pretty well negligible and we should go through without trouble. We're going now to continuous vernier bum." slid through the final barrier. Paxton held the ship confidently on fly-by-wire, turning the gimbaled verniers for brief bursts to avoid denser clouds of fragments. Visibility was poorer, with so many reflecting surfaces around that they were back to the lattice effect, softened now by the greater density of gases. Then, suddenly, the jeweled reefs were above them and they began their final braking. "We're now in the lee of the true nucleus, starting our final approach. The body looks to be loosely compacted chunks of rock and ice. Gravity is very low. The streams of gas and pieces breaking away are all coming from the area under direct sunlight. The surface appears stable along a broad strip toward the terminator." "I'm getting a really bright radar echo from about two-thirds of the way up the terminator," Schemer added. "We have enough fuel to select that for our touchdown." Paxton began the course change. "If it's an anomaly we'll want a look at that." The radar anomaly stayed conspicuous as the PM closed with it. "That's a bright echo," Schemer repeated. "It could almost be a metal outcrop." "I'll land as close to it as il can. There's a promising site right next to the thing. I can see it now -- it does look like metal. Put the radar into landing mode." "Landing mode activated." The icy horizon came up around them as Paxton throttled back. Ignoring the feeble attraction of the nucleus, he was flying the ship all the way to the surface. He shut off the braking engine and let the remnants of their approach velocity take them down. Schemer was calling off the approach figures, so he didn't see the anomaly come into view. Paxton did -- and he interrupted the commentary. "Control, the anomaly is artificial. I say again, the anomaly is an artificial object. We are go for touchdown, well within fuel reserves -- contact light." "Contact light is on," Schemer confirmed. "The PM has landed. Our inclination is three degrees, repeat three degrees. Fuel and oxidizer residuals as follows..." checks and had given themselves go for a three-minute stay when the Earth reaction came IF back. "We're getting pretty bad interference on your signal now, especially in the final stage of descent. Repeat description of the anomaly, repeat description of the anomaly." Bleep . "I say again, the anomaly is an artificial object, repeat artificial. Now here we go for the details." Turning to the right, Paxton could just see the thing from his couch. "It looks like the bottom half of a totem pole. I'd say there are three distinct sections, one on top of the other. The bottom one is gold -- or covered in gold foil -- cylindrical, with heat radiator panels projecting. The one above that is roughly spherical, black and silver, with solar cell panels on the surface and projecting antennae. The top section is hexagonal for threefourths of the way up -- then it becomes a straight cylinder of lesser diameter. It, too, is gold and some of the panels of the hexagon have solar cells. There are connecting rods from it on one side, anchoring it to the bottom section -- I don't think they touch the sphere at all." "We have your landing status report," said Misson Control. "On the basis of that we'll give you go to stay for twelve hours. Let us have your computer readout and we'll assess status for the full mission." Bleep . "Roger," said Schemer. "Secondary antenna is now deployed and locked on Newtonian for telemetry. Computer readout begins in three seconds, two, one, mark!" He pressed the switch and the transmission light went on. The reply to Paxton's description came back. "We copy the appearance of the object, Dave. Can you estimate the function or purpose of the device?" Bleep . Paxton was still staring to the right. "The more I look at it, the more I think it's not one device but three. The three sections certainly don't add up to a unit like the three segments of the PM. Nor, I think, is any one section a spacecraft in itself. I'd say each of them is a scientific package like the one in our cargo compartment, over." "We have your computer readout," said Misson Control. "You are go to stay for the full mission." Bleep. "Great. Now let me see this thing." Schemer pushed off his straps and sat up on his couch, then rose and turned to see out through the port. Paxton sat up more slowly. They both looked out in silence until Control came back on. "Dave, we could accept that some other national group might have reached the comet some days ahead of us. But there hasn't been time for three complete scientific payloads to be landed even if three ships the size of Newtonian could be launched in secret." Bleep. "Roger, Control, that confirms our assessment," said Paxton. Schemer glanced at him in surprise. "We're looking at objects from outside the solar system altogether, like the comet itself. Some time in the past, when the nucleus swung past another sun, there was another landing here -- maybe more than one." "If that's true," said Schemer, of years old. This is a fast comet, but over interstellar distances -- " Paxton agreed. "Well,, let's eat." "Huh? Oh, yes." Their program called for a meal and a sleep period. The discovery had knocked Scherner out of the routine, though he hadn't been thinking of going outside. The penetration descent had left him fatigued, but he could have looked at the object a long time yet. "Okay, you break out the food packs and I'll get some pictures through the window." He even took some shots from the other windows -- of the comet's surface composition and the bright columns of gas rising past the sun's disk from over the horizon. The sublimation mechanism was his speciality, was what he had come here to study, but it was taking second place in his thoughts. pressurized the module and Paxton made his way carefully down the side of the ship. Gravity was so low that effectively they were in free-fall, but the exhausts had softened the surface enough for the landing legs to grapple and hold. Schemer waited in the hatch while Paxton collected a contingency sample from the surface, sent it back up on his line -- then he opened up the cargo section and began passing down the research tools. After he descended they were to start taking cores and putting down probes into the comet, but obviously that had to wait. Taking the cameras, they maneuvered on their jet packs toward the object. It was roughly the same height as the Penetration Module, but all three sections were greater than it in diameter. Schemer had thought, in the capsule, that it was somewhat smaller, but sizes and distances were hard to judge. The irregular horizon was close everywhere, but there was a big outcrop of ice behind the object and light reflected from the crag lit up the side away from the sun, giving the structure a luminous, ethereal quality. Close up, they could see IF that the bottom section was clear of the surface. In the shadow beneath it their torches found a great golden spike, anchored deep among the frozen gases of the comet. "Whoever put down the first one meant it to hold," said Paxton to Earth. "From the taper on the length we can see, which is about four feet, I would estimate that the spike would hold through at least one stellar passage even on the sunward side of the comet. Maybe the makers knew where the comet was going next and decided to use it as an interstellar probe. These radiator panels imply that there was a big power plant in here, enough to carry a signal over interstellar distances -- maybe beaming its accumulated data once it got well out from the star again. It could be storing information to do so again right now, but the panels are at exactly the temperature of our surroundings, so I'd guess the pile's wholly inert. It's had millions of years to cool right down." even hundreds," Schemer corrected from above. "Once the probe was beyond use to its makers, it served as an anchorage for other people's. The spheroid was welded to its top, covering the antenna unit." "And the top section was added later still," said Paxton. "When I said the three didn't make anything in combination, I was wrong. What we have here is a cairn." "Fantastic." Schemer was floatting by the upper unit, taking pictures. "These upper two could still be active, Dave, since they have solar cells. Maybe they're recording data on us right now." "If the solar cells are still active stellar dark they're pretty good," said Paxton. "But if they have omnidirectional antennae -- maybe we'll pick up something when we're tracking our own instrument package." "That would be fantastic! If we could compare their transmissions with our probe's we could maybe decode them. Then perhaps we could interrogate them about the planetary systems they originally passed through. It would be an interstellar probe for us -- a time probe as well as a space one!" "Great," said Paxton. "If we could get the second probe's recording of the third probe's system we'd get some actual data about the people who put the third probe here." But closer examination proved these speculations mere dreams. All three probes were inert, so thoroughly frozen that the ice crystals frosting them could not be brushed off. Schemer and Paxton feared to apply any force, for the whole structure might shatter -- the metals had to be nightmarishly brittle. There didn't seem to be any prospect of taking the probes apart, not even of removing data recorders that might be slowly warmed and interrogated. They could find no access panels -- not surprisingly. Their own probe was a sealed unit, almost all solidstate, so its power would last as long as possible on the outward swing from the sun. They had no burning or cutting tools to force a way into the cairn -- like their predecessors, they could only leave their own instruments in turn. T HE work of studying the comet went on as intended. Schemer floated farther sunwards day by day, taking rock and ice samples, studying the gas flow from the surface and the effects of the coma on sunlight and solar wind. Using a one-man jet platform, he penetrated The region where fragments were splitting off the comet, even landing there as the violence of the outbursts diminished. The comet was receding swiftly from the sun now, preceded by the vast length of the tail which would soon contract. They were coming up to activation time for the automatic station they would leave behind. One question remained to be settled, however. It seemed fitting to add the package to the top of the cairn, but the plan had been to anchor it to the ice. It had been designed to "listen" for tremors and shifts of components in the comet as the sunward face stabilized -- obviously these would be affected by transmission through the cairn. It was also intended to measure the rate of "ice fall" as the coma gases froze and their crystals were drawn back to the nucleus. That was less of a problem, because the precipitation on the upper face of the probe could be corrected for the height of the cairn, to give the values for the comet's surface. However, Mission Control had been holding up the decision. When they did return to the subject, they had something very different in mind. "From the dimensions you've given us for the cylinder atop the cairn, it would be possible to grip it with the landing legs of the PM." Schemer and Paxton looked at each other. Paxton raised his eyebrows. "That would be possible, Control," he replied. "We could lower the PM to the top of the cairn on the attitude control jets and tighten up the landing legs. We might even get a weld, with two metal surfaces pressed together in vacuum -- but I wouldn't expect the grip to hold if we tried to pull the cairn out of the ice." IF "Surely that's not what they have in mind," Schemer said as they waited for the signals to course out and back. "I can't think of what else they want," said Paxton. "We couldn't use the central engine, but the four verniers could be angled sufficiently to keep the flames from impinging on the cairn. Maybe they want us to bring back the top section -- but we haven't enough fuel even for that." Schemer nodded. Neither of them put his own feelings into words -- by now they were of one mind concerning the cairn. Mission Control replied. "As you may imagine, Dave, there's a big demand from scientists -- and indeed from the public and their elected representatives -- that the cairn be retrieved for study. The only way we can figure to do this involves sacrificing the back-up capability of the PM and the Lander, so the final decision will rest with Bob Sullivan as mission commander. What we plan is for Bob to come down to you in the Lander and set the nuclear device in the ice at the edge of the current break-up zone. We calculate that an explosion at that point has the best chance of blasting the cairn out of the nucleus. Then we hope that you'd be able to get remote control of the PM and slow up the cairn with the vernier engines. With your present fuel reserves, it should return to the vicinity of the sun within a hundred years. We'd like to know whether you have any additional comments before we go to Bob for his decision." Bleep. Paxton looked at Schemer. "You tell them," he said, looking sick. "I can't." Schemer swallowed hard. "Nothing to add. Control. Over." A factors Sullivan accepted the plan -- surprising neither Paxton nor Schemer. His solo penetration of the comet posed no real problems because he knew what to expect. Only the landing might be tricky and for that he would have a talk-down. In due course they saw the bright flare of the Lander motors descending through the inclined belt of debris (bigger fragments now, more widely spaced), and with Schemer on the PM radar and Paxton outside, they talked him down without trouble. Atop its booster, identical to the PM's, the winged Lander made an equilateral triangle with the PM and the cairn. Sullivan went through the routine checks on his own, then suited up immediately Paxton helped him out and together they drifted across to the cairn. Schemer was already there, waiting for them. They floated slowly up the structure, both scientists trying to read the mission commander's mind. At the top of the cairn Sullivan cut his jets and hung there, sinking imperciptibly in the gravity of the nucleus. "I thought it might be an anticlimax," he said at last, "but that thing is absolutely beautiful. Not just in itself, though it has a strange unity of its own, but in all that it stands for." "So it's got to you as well," Schemer said inadequately. "Yeah. Do you think it will survive disruption of the nucleus?" "I doubt it." Paxton pointed to the ice bulk beyond. "That berg alone could crush it -- just with the wallop it would pack tumbling over. That bomb is going to break loose everything. I don't think we'll even find the cairn again -- there'll be nothing left of it to find." "They only asked us whether it could be set up," Schemer said. "Not whether we thought it would work -- or whether we should even try to retain the cairn. Earth wants and Earth grabs -- they'd sooner smash the cairn than let it go -- if they can't have it." Sullivan shook his head. "Yeah. It's too bad." "Come and see what Dave has been doing," Schemer said to him. "What Dave has been doing?" Sullivan asked as they floated towards the PM. "Wait a minute -- you fellows have been falling "I've been doing most of that lately," Schemer said wearily. "Sure, it might have been a little risky for me to work far from the ship on my own, but I stayed high enough either with the platform or on the suit jets to be in touch with Dave, except when I dropped to take samples. If I hadn't called in every thirty minutes he would have come for me." The PM was before them, the four panels folded down from the cargo hold like the armored ruff of some giant reptile. Paxton hung over the first of them, indicating his painstaking work on the interior of the panel. "I brought down the rendezvous laser, unshipped from its housing, and refocused it," he said. "We can't use it to cut into the cairn because we don't have a long enough power line -- but it can engrave these panels before we blow them clear. We were going to mount them around our station on top of the cairn. On this one I've put the sun, the Earth's orbit and the comet's -- and the Newtonian s path to the comet and back. I put the moon beside the Earth so they IF could identify Earth in this second diagram at the side." He had shown the planets of the solar system to scale, with their distances from the sun in astronomical units. "I've marked Earth E and the sun S, so ES is the astronomical unit, and I've put our numbers up to twenty-one along the bottom here so they can work them out. I couldn't figure any way to give them the actual distances, but at least they can chart the solar system to scale. "The next two," he pointed, "are star charts, north and south. I haven't put much stress on constellation figures because it'll be who knows how long before the comet goes through another inhabited system, but I've shown the relative positions of the Milky Way, the Galactic Poles, M thirtyone, M thirteen and other globulars, the Hyades, the Pleiades and the Magellanic Clouds. With those points of reference people should be able to place where we were and when -- even the open clusters should be good markers for a galactic year or so, provided they can be identified. That's for their scientists. The message is 'Here we are' and it doesn't matter that astronomical distances make it 'Here we were.'" After drifting around the hull Sullivan met Paxton again at the fourth panel. "This one should give them the identification," Paxton said. "That's the Milky Way -- the cross in it shows our position now. There are the Magellanics and there's Andromeda. I've started dotting in some globular clusters to show what they are. The Pleiades and the rest are obviously open clusters, by elimination. Down here I'm going to put a stylized man, woman and child, to show what we're like." "Dave, those are incredible," said Sullivan at last. "I've put a lot into them," said Paxton. "If you didn't feel as we do about the cairn I might not be showing them to you. We could have blown them off and you'd never have known." "Nobody will ever know, if we blow up the comet," said Sullivan. "That's what you're trying to tell me. We have a chance to add to what other intelligent races have begun -- " He fell silent for a moment. "Well, I've always heard that it was bad luck to break the chain. But at this stage, if we don't plant the bomb wfe'll obviously be defying Mission Control." Suddenly he grinned. "There's a way around that. Let's get moving -- we'll mount the PM on the cairn, as ordered, and take pictures to prove it. While Dave finishes the fourth panel, we tell Control that we're planting the bomb sunward, where they want it. Instead we'll take it up with us for the first stage of the ascent and cast it off when it has enough speed to leave the comet altogether. The excess fuel we use for that first burn will cancel the excess we didn't use planting the charge." T EY moved the PM, instrument package and all, to hover above the cairn and this time Sullivan outside talked Paxton and Schemer down. With the leg grapples securely gripping the top cylinder, the PM looked entirely right sitting up there. The probe's antennae and instrument booms were extended and the package was activated. They were ready to contact Mission Control when they discovered they had lost touch with Earth. The Newtonians high-gain antennae had drifted off the planet, the nucleus, or both. Probably the nucleus sensors had wandered off along the illusory head was opening now, beginning to separate into discrete objects reflecting the sunlight., Paxton and Schemer backed out of the capsule, bringing their few belongings. The men gathered at the Lander hatch, pulling themselves through it into the cabin. Sealing it up and pressurizing, they left ice and vacuum behind for the last time. Central engine at low thrust, verniers flaring, the Lander made its way up through the inclined plane of fragments. Beyond it, coasting outward, Sullivan let the bomb go. It drew ahead on its own solid charge, fast enough to separate entirely from the comet. By the time the comet next came to a solar system the device would be too far away to be associated with it. A floating iceberg was growing in the path of the Lander. Sullivan started the second bum. Threading a path through the satellites of the nucleus, the verniers fired again and again until one of them cracked. A cluster of red lights came on, the warning buzzer sounded, and the ship was tumbled by the asymmetric thrust generated by the burn-out. Cut-off was automatic and fly-by-wire brought the ship back into the bum attitude. "Rate of approach to nearest hazard," Sullivan demanded. "Distance one point four miles -- three minutes to impact," Schemer reported. "Number three vernier has gone," said Sullivan. "We'll take a systems check on the others before we burn. Give it to me from item thirty-one, Dave." IF Out of touch with Mission Control, they had to get themselves through the emergency. They completed the check with a minute and a half to spare and made the next burn on the central engine alone. The approaching ice cliff, spread with gemlike points, slid past. Sullivan studied the reefs ahead. "We'll have to take some way off this thing," he declared. "Set up a twenty-second bum for the central engine, Dave." He drew back the hand-grip for a #degree rotation. "We're going to be late back to the Newtonian said Schemer. "Mission Control will sweat," Sullivan agreed. "They think an atom bomb's going off down here. But they won't tell your families until they do hear from us, I expect." Depenetration was much harder now. With one vernier out of action, more work would fall on the central engine and the three verniers remaining. They could either angle the ship for each burn, loading work on to the central engine, or roll to bring the other verniers to bear when the missing one was needed. To conserve fuel in the attitude control thrusters, in fact, they must use the verniers as much as possible -- but with all those roll maneuvers they could get off the Newtonian beam. And if they emerged low on fuel there was noone to come and get them. Control had become a three-man job and the team clicked smoothly together. Schemer, on radar and communications, kept them headed in the right direction. They emerged into the coma in approximately the right place and not long afterward the Newtonian s radio link locked onto them again. The Lander moved out toward clear space. Control came on: "We were getting worried about you fellows for a while there, but you should get back to the Newtonian and move out some distance before the explosion." Bleep. "Roger, Control," said Sullivan. "What will we tell them when there's no detonation?" he asked the others. "No detonation," said Paxton. "Right," said Sullivan and they all smiled, relaxed after the strain of the ascent. Their hostility to one another was gone, Schemer realized -- it hadn't reared its head during stress or even after. The discovery of the cairn had overshadowed it and dissolved it. That was the reason -- though the message had not yet reached Earth -- why the cairn had to remain intact, singing or silent, on its way among the stars.  F OR more than forty years, readers and writers have been unable to agree on a definition of science fiction that would separate it from the general field of pure fantasy. Most early attempts at a definition relied upon science as the essential element in science fiction. But that effort failed. Some of the best science-fiction stories involve almost no science, while C. P. Snow used a great deal of science in some of his mainstream novels. Speculation isn't the key word, because fantasy is also speculative. Extrapolation? No, because you can't extrapolate a galaxy of aliens -- we don't know anything about aliens, so we can't honestly extrapolate from zero knowledge. In effect we have been forced to fall back on a circular definition or no definition at all. Science fiction has often been considered to be simply what science-ficton readers like -- and a science-fiction reader is one who likes science fiction. And around she goes. Most often we have simply assumed that everyone concerned with science fiction knows what the term means even if he can't define it. If that idea was ever valid, it most certainly is not today. I recently completed the editing of an anthology entitled Best Science Fiction Stories of the Year , to be published by Dutton. I had to read every piece of short (to # words) science fiction that was published during #I in the magazines and original anthologies. I found some very good stories, but they were buried in a shocking mass of stuff that offered very little reason for its existence. I kept no records, yet at least half of what I read (particularly in the anthologies) was everything but science fiction. Much of it wasn't even fantasy. The writers had somehow learned enough of the field to locate the markets, but -- if they ever read a sciencefiction magazine -- they didn't understand the basic nature of the medium. It seemed to me that I must include a definition in the foreword to the book, so that readers would know what to expect. I spent a week trying to find such a definition and then had to start from scratch -- to discover what science fiction is not. Science fiction is not fantasy. It should not deal with what is known to be impossible. It need not involve high probabilities, but such things as shrinking the world to the atom won't work -- we know too much of atomic structure and there are no electron "worlds." Magic won't work, unless fitted carefully into the structure of known science. (There is a catch to the above, of course. Time travel and fasterthan-light travel are pretty dubious possibilities and they are often used with no attempt to fit them into our known science. Convention, however, has accepted both as devices that facilitate the telling of certain stories. Telepathy and the psi powers have been similarly accepted.) Rationality should be a requirement of all fiction -- but science fiction especially must not be irrational. You can't set up a story of the sun about to explode and then solve the problem by sending out a fire rocket to spray the sun with water and quench the flame. You can't set up a projection into the future made possible only by science and then neglect science. You have to think out whatever probabilities you choose, attempt to see all the ramifications, build your world as completely as you can and then follow through within the limits you have given that world. Item: rationality. I did come up with one positive. Science fiction is fiction -- it deals in stories, not sketches or jottings. A story must feature a character who undergoes stress through inner or exterior conflict and creates a resolution, either happy or significantly unhappy. The common rules of fiction apply to science fiction -- in fact, they apply even more strongly, since the writer frequently must create acceptance or identification rather than find it in a commonly accepted background. Item: fiction. It took me several days to find the one factor that was still missing. Most of the above could apply to any good mainstream story. What made the difference? Suddenly I realized that science fiction never occurs in the past, the present, the future. In true science fiction something has to be different from what we know of the past or present -- and no future is sure. We can project merely a future. So science fiction deals with alternates. A story detailing our normal present -- or actual past -- set in the near future and moved to a geographic locale not on any map is still mainstream. But a story rationally developed out of racial riots in a present -- and in which the South won the War between the States in science fiction. So is any honest attempt to write about a future. Item: alternate. From the above we can combine certain elements into a fairly compact definition that seems to work fairly well for me: Science fiction is fiction that deals rationally with alternate possibilities. Modern fantasy would deal rationally with alternate impossibilities, incidentally. The similarity in handling and attack probably explains why many readers have also been devoted to the better fantasy magazines. If there is such a thing as "speculative" fiction it probably differs from science fiction only when it omits the concept of the alternate. Thus the matter of relevance would properly belong to speculative fiction when the relevance was keyed tightly to the realities of the present -- in other respects science fiction is also relevant, since all fiction should be relevant to the human condition. This definition has nothing to do with value judgments. It says nothing about whether the result is good or bad -- it simply determines for me whether the result is properly science fiction. good-bad value judgments in reviewing an anthology that ties directly into the foregoing. The volume is titled Clarion , edited by Robin Scott Wilson (Signet, # i ). It calls itself "an anthology of speculative fiction and criticism from the Clarion Writers' Workshop," and it might be free of the requirements of science fiction, but... The cover labels it "A Signet Science Fiction" (sic). The copy IF on the back cover mentions science fiction six times prominently and gives no mention at all to speculative fiction. And inside the front cover the puff quotes Damon Knight as saying, "This volume contains the work of # new science-fiction writers... I think it fair to decide that the volume is being marketed as science fiction and that it was edited to be sold as such. Mostly it just plain ain't. Oh, there are several rather interesting articles on science fiction by some of the professional writers featured on the cover -- Joanna Russ, for one, discusses the place of science fiction and is in excellent form. Some of the professional articles, on the other hand, are little but puffs for Clarion. And if you expect to find much science fiction by those new writers, forget it. There are twenty-one items inside, since some of the writers contributed more than one piece of work. Of these, three seem to be genuinely intended as science fiction by writers who know the field -- and a few others have future dates or backgrounds that are intended to make them look like science fiction. There is' also a genuine and rather pleasant fantasy at the end and a few other stories display elements of fantasy. Altogether I estimated about # words of science fiction and fantasy in the whole book and perhaps an equal amount of wordage of simulated sf and fantasy. At least # words have nothing to do with anything outside the usual efforts of young writers to write avant garde or mainstream stories. Anyone buying this book as science fiction is being robbed. But the unfortunate writers inside are being robbed even more. Apparently there is no effort at Clarion to teach the difference between science fiction and other branches of literature. That is hardly fair preparation for the type of writing that the market they hope to hit calls for. Surely some of the lecturers from professional writers knew that the manuscripts they saw were not related in any way to science fiction. Or was the obviously happy time they had at Clarion enough to blur all judgment? Robin Scott Wilson, who headed Clarion, is himself a respected writer of science fiction. He should know the difference. The writing in the book is often quite good of its kind. But it's the standard moody, experimental (make that pseudo-experimental, if you want to evaluate it honestly), exhibitionist sort that is common to college courses where the emphasis is placed on write rather than right. I've seen much better stories by Clarion students in the magazines, so I hope they will learn from the market what they didn't seem to get in the Workshop. After all, study of the magazines and of our classics is the best college for our writers. when Ted White began planning to write science fiction. He had to do it all on his own, as most writers have found it best to do. He discovered science fiction in his school library, as I remember, and then found out about the magazines. His first writing was for the fan magazines, because science fiction was important to him. And after numerous battles in the pages of those journals he began to think he could write professional fiction. By now he has written quite a bit of it, some as adult fiction and some for the teen-age market, to pay back the debt of his own discovery -- perhaps. I can't say that I've liked all he has written. In fact, I've disliked some of the fiction he considered his best. But when I've read one of his books, I've never been in the least doubt that I've been reading science fiction. He doesn't need dates and rocket ships and all the mechanical trappings to prove it's science fiction, because he has the whole field as his reading background. His Star Wolf (Lancer, # i) is a simple story, stripped to the bare bones of adventure fiction. For most of the book, the cast of characters includes one man and a wolf-dog. Page after page goes by without a word of conversation (which is supposed to be needed to maintain interest). During the major part of the book, there are no enemies to be fought, no great conflicts to be met and endured -- nothing except an endless trip across a cruel desert. It's damned good! In a way the book is a sequel to Phoenix Prime. It returns to the alternate world of Qar (pronounced Quahr by Ted, not with the Arabic stop I took the Q for). We find the hero of the first book has left a son to be brought up in squalor near the desert and to wonder at the legend of his father. That father came from the desert, accompanied by a strange wolfdog, then disappeared in the raids and wars of Qar. Markstarn, the son, wants to trace his sire. But he does nothing until one day a wolfdog comes to him. Then he leaves IF his tribe and heads for the deadly desert with the wolf. A destination and a fate find him, eventually. Botfi are satisfactory and there are some excellent aliens and traces of vanished culture to pique the reader -- yet more than half of the book is made up of nothing but the trek across the desert. It's good because Ted has made it into two trips. One is the physical one. The other is the mental one inside Markstarn's head. The conflict comes from the nature of the boy's search for his father -- he makes himself over into the image he seeks. The book's merits are probably enhanced for me because I rather resented the death of the wolf-dog in the first book. In the sequel Ted has managed to give it all back to me and use it the way I hoped. It's not great literature. As I said, it's an adventure story. But it's one of those rather rare adventure stories -- and it's nice to see what can be done by sticking honestly to an idea. Farmer. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For informa European Science Fiction Convention with the Trieste SF Film Festival. Membership: #, attending; #, supporting. For information: Convention address: Eurocon I, Casella Postale #, #, Venezia, Italy. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Detroit Tri-Con, # Westwood Avenue, Detroit, Michigan #.  World Science Fiction Convention. At the International Hotel I , #I West Century Blvd., Los Angeles, California #. Guest-of-Honor: Frederik Pohl. Fan Guests-of-Honor: Robert and Juanita Coulson. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: L. A. Con, P.O. Box #, Santa Monica, California. stuck as honestly to his idea in The Overman Culture (Putnam, #). He sets up a seemingly elaborate World where everything is disturbingly different and yet similar to the one we know -- we have World War II and Queen Victoria and protective screens and robots. The story is told through the eyes of a small group of children who grow up under the care of odd parents to discover that the city they live in has no real exterior world and that most of what they are taught is a lie. In time they decide to upset their parents, to battle the robots and to seek their own destiny. That's all promising enough. But the promise is never kept. The story collapses into a hoax -- there was never any menace and a whole lot of the tension was totally needless. The reader is rather badly cheated. True, everything is explained and justified. But the letdown at the end makes all that went before seem rather silly. books that are not science fiction at all, but should be considered. Ignition , by John D. Clark (Rutgers, #), is science fact and gives the inside story of the development of our rocket fuels. Dr. Clark was very much on the inside and he tells the only clear story I've read of one of the high moments of scientific research. It's as good a job of reporting on a difficult field as I can remember and far funnier at times than most. He writes well; the events are fascinating; he makes the difficult clear -- and this is how we got our rockets out into space. Some knowledge of chemistry is needed, but a good high-school course should be enough. I echo Isaac Asimov's Foreword in advising you to read the book. Deryni Checkmate , by Katherine Kurtz (Ballantine, #), is a superb historical adventure story of a fantasy world that relates somehow to our past. It is one of the best written and best conceived fantasy adventure novels I've seen for quite a while. The second of three novels, but worth reading now. And Lancer Books has issued H. Rider Haggard's She and The Return of She in a single volume for #. The first part is one of the great fantasy classics -- the Return is just as good and much less known. I found myself enjoying it as much as I did three decades ago. It is definitely not science fiction by any definition, however! # IF Dear Reeders: As we advised you in the last issue, and the October issue of IF. Classified advertisements appear in both magazines at the low, low rate of #c per word (# word minimum)... reaching more than # readers of these award winning S-F leaders. able to Classified advertisers will be closing oh July #. Why don't you plan now to join us. A handy order blank appears on the reverse side of this page. Frank Brennan Classified Advertising Manager JulyAugust # l cp this handy form to place your ads in the #Y per word (inSept July # Oct Aug # May I eluding name and ov Sept # Dec Oct # July I . Jan Nov # Feb Dec # Sept I address). #-word Mar Jan # Apri , Feb # N  j minimum. PayMay Mar # June Apr # Jan j ment with order. July May # Aug Jun # Mar I Mail to: Frank Brennan, Classified Advertising Manager bring results and profits because they reach over # of America's most enthusiastic science-fiction readers. A Mr. Fisk Centers," the cute operator said. Fisk almost dropped his sandwich. "There must be some mistake. I don't know anybody offplanet." The girl looked at him with polite annoyance, as though nobody should be startled by such an event. "Are you Mr. Fisk Centers?" "Yes, of course," he said. "But -- " Her face sifted out, smiling professionally. The screen bleeped, went blank and finally produced a man. He had handsome gray hair and wore the traditional Marsresident uniform -- a cross between a spacesuit and a tuxedo. He was seated behind a large plastifoam desk and a tremendous color map of classical Mars covered the wall beyond. "Welcome to Mars, Mr. Centers," the man said, putting on a contagious grin. "I am Bondman, of Mars, Limited." Somehow he had managed to pronounce "Limited" the way it looked on the map on the office wall behind him -- "Ltd." Fisk was fifty and had been around, but he had never been treated to an interplanetary call before. The reason was not only the expense, though he knew that was extraordinary. He simplyhappened to be one of the several  to deal offplanet. Probably Mars, Ltd. was economizing by using Service -- but the call was still impressive. "Are you sure -- " "Now, Mr. Centers, let's not let modesty interfere with business," Bondman said, frowning briefly. "You're far too sensible a man for that. That's why you're one of the privileged few to be selected as eligible for this project." "Project? I don't -- " The Marsman's brow wrinkled elegantly. "Naturally it isn't available to the common run. Mars is too fine a planet to ruin by indiscriminate development, don't you agree?" Fisk found himself nodding to the persuasive tdne before the meaning registered. "Development? I thought Mars was uninhabitable. Not enough water, air -- " "Most astute, Mr. Centers," Bondman said, bathing him with a glance of honest admiration. "Indeed there is not enough water or air. Not for every person who might want to settle. Selectivity is the key -- the vital key -- for what can be a very good life indeed. Mars, you see, has space -- but what is space without air?" IF "Right. There's no good life in a spacesuit. I -- " "Of course not, Mr. Centers. The ignorant person believes that man must live on Mars in a cumbersome suit and so he has a low regard for Mars realty. How fortunate that you and I know better." And before Fisk could protest Bondman continued: "You and i know that the new static domes conserve air, water and heat, utilizing the greenhouse effect to make an otherwise barren land burst into splendor. Within that invisible protective hemisphere it is completely Earthlike. Not Earth as it is today, but as it was a century ago. Think of it, Mr. Centers -- pure clean air, gentle sunshine, fresh running water. Horses and carriages -- automobiles, guns, hallucinogenic drugs and similar evils prohibited. A haven for retirement in absolute security and comfort." Fisk, but the smooth sales patter distracted him and compelled his half-reluctant attention. He certainly was not going to Mars. "But they don't have such domes on Mars. That technique was developed only a few months ago and is still in the testing stage." man exclaimed sincerely. "You certainly keep abreast of the times. Of course there are no domes on Mars now, as you so astutely point out. Why, it will be years before they are set up -- perhaps even as long as a decade. This is what makes it such a superlative investment now -- before the news gets out. Provided we restrict it to intelligent men such as yourself. I'm sure -- " "Investment? Now hold on," Fisk protested. "I'm not in the market for investment. I'm comfortably set up right now and -- " "I quite understand. Naturally you're not interested in a mediocre investment, Mr. Centers," Bondman said, frowning at his own failure in not having made the point clear. "Do you think I would insult your intelligence by wasting your time? No, you have the discernment to identify the superior value when you encounter it, unlike the common -- " "What investment?" Fisk demanded, annoyed by the too-heavy flattery. The intrigue of the interplanetary call was wearing thin and the objection he couldn't quite formulate still nagged -- and he wanted to finish his sandwich before it got stale. The man leaned forward to whisper confidentially. "Marsland," he breathed, as though it were the secret of the ages. His voice was so charged with excitement and rapture that Fisk had to struggle to maintain his emotional equilibrium. Could there be something in it? After a pregnant pause Bondman resumed. "I see you understand. I was sure you would. You comprehend the phenomenal potential in Marsland realty, the incredible opportunity -- " "I don't comprehend it," Fisk snapped, gesturing with his neglected sandwich. "I have no use for land on Mars and I would consider it an extremely risky investment. That dome technique is still in the prototype stage -- it may not even work on Mars. So if that's what you're -- " "Yes, of course you want to see the brochure," the salesman agreed irrelevantly. "And you shall have it, Mr. Centers. I will put it in the slot for you immediately, first class. I'm sure you will examine it most -- " Suddenly, facilitated by some devious mental process, Fisk's nagging question came into focus. "You aren't on Mars," he said miles outside Earth's. Even when Mars is closest it should take a good ten minutes to get an answer by phone." "Congratulations!" Bondman cried jubilantly. "You have just' qualified for our exclusive genius-' intellect bonus certificate. Of course I'm not calling from that Mars you see in the sky -- I'm here at the Mars, Limited promotion office. Mr. Centers, I'm so glad you were sharp enough to solve our little riddle within the time limit. You're the very kind of investor we prefer. I'll insert the certificate right now. And I'll be seeing you again soon. Bye-bye." And while Fisk was marveling at the peculiarly childish "bye-bye" the image' faded. fine torula-steak on soyrye with enriched onion sauce, but found he was no longer hungry. He was sure this was a sales gimmick for something worthless, but Bondman's contagious excitement had gotten to him. Maybe there was a good investment on Mars. Well, no harm in looking at the literature. He certainly didn't have to buy. He didn't have long to wait, either. His mail receiver was already chiming with an arrival. He picked up the bulky printing and spread it out. It was a firstclass presentation, all right, with color photographs and glossy surfacing that must have cost dearly to transmit. If he had not been IF present when it arrived he would have suspected a physical delivery rather than the normal mailfax. Mars, Ltd. must have oiled the right palms in the post office. Well, he had to admit it -- he was intrigued. He probably would not buy, but he would enjoy looking. First there was the bonus certificate, entitling him to a twenty percent reduction. Fair enough -- but hardly sufficient to induce him to buy without his knowing the actual price. Then a spread on Mars -- its discovery in prehistoric times, its variable distance from long year (# days -- Earth days or Mars days, he wondered -- or were they the same?), low surface gravity (one-third Earth's), pretty moons (ten-mile diameter Phobos, six-mile Deimos), scenic craters -- all familiar material, but calculated to whet the appetite for investment and retirement. Then down to paydirt. The proposed colony, Elysium Acres, was located on a map dramatically colored and named. An electrostatic dome a hundred miles in diameter, almost fifty miles high, enclosed a greenhouse atmosphere at Earth-normal pressure and temperature. The development was suitable for homesites, with carefully laid out horse trails and a delightful crater lake. Guaranteed weather, pollution-free atmosphere. Fisk was middle-aged and cynical, but this gripped him. Earth was such a sweatbox now. He hated having to take weekly shots to protect his system against environmental contamination, and the constantly increasing restrictions invoked in the name of the growing pressure on worldly resources made him rage at times like a prisoned tiger. (What other kind of tiger was there today?) Perhaps if he had married, found someone to share his -- but that was another entire dimension of frustration, hardly relevant now. This Marsdome pitch catered to these very frustrations, he realized. self, men well enough to do, intelligent arid sick of their own lack of purpose. What a beacon it was, an escape to an unspoiled planet -- in comfort. But of course he was old enough to control his foolish fancies. He knew, intellectually, that no such development existed on Mars and probably never would exist. The sheer expense would be prohibitive. All that technology, all that shipment from Earth -- why, passenger fare for one person one way would amount to twenty or thirty thousand dollars, assuming emigration could even be arranged. And for him it was out of the question. Yet he could not help studying the brochure. Elysium Acres -- such a suggestion of bliss! Could it possibly come true by the time he turned sixty? Why not, if they were able to finance it? There was the real rub. Money. How much to establish the dome, stock it with good atmosphere, import vegetation, calculate and maintain a closed-system ecological balance, construct access highways, lakes, houses, service facilities? There would have to be hospitals, libraries, administrative buildings, emergency staffs -- all the accouterments of civilization, in short. It construct. Naturally the brochure did not provide the price list. But if it were affordable and if it were possible for him to go -- what a temptation! He punched his personal info number for his net worth, just checking. The totals flashed on the screen after he had provided his identification code -- liquid assets just over fifty thousand dollars; investments at current quotations just under two hundred thousand; miscellaneous properties and options sixty to eighty thousand, pending urgency of sale. Grand total -- a generous three hundred thousand. Enough, with proper management, to tide him through the twenty-five years until his retirement annuities matured. He was hardly foof enough to jeopardize any of it by investing in pieon-Mars. Still, it had been fun dreaming. T HE dream lingered next morning, a welcome guest staying beyond courteous hours. Fisk showered in the sonic booth, depilitated and dressed. As he arranged and set his graying locks he wondered irrelevantly whether he and the salesman, Bondman, used the same brand of hair tint. He studied his face in the mirror, picturing himself as a hard-sell agent, lifting his brow artfully to augment a pregnant pause. Yes, he did look the part -- perhaps he would be good at it. But then, subjectively, he saw the signs of what he knew was there -- the circulatory malady that bound him to Earth for life. His quarterly medication kept it under control -- but a trip to Mars, with the necessary accelerations and drugstates, was out of the question. That was why Mars would never be more than a dream for Fisk Centers, no matter how alluring the sales pitch. He would always be a portly, subdued Earthman. So it was time to end it. He filed the Mars, Ltd. literature in the IF recycle bin and watched it disintegrate. Then he punched breakfast. He felt lonely. The phone lighted. "Yes?" he said automatically. "Interplanetary call for Mr. Fisk Centers," the cute operator said. She had changed her hairdo, but she was the same one who had placed the call yesterday. "Come off it, girl," he snapped, aware that there was nothing more useless than taking out a personal peeve on an impersonal employee. "It is not interplanetary." Bondman of Mars phased into view. "Of course it is, Mr. Centers," he said genially. "The Mars, Limited office is legally Mars soil, you know. An enclave. We have to undergo quarantine before reporting for work, ha-ha! I trust you have studied our brochure -- " "Yes. I'm not buying." Bondman looked hurt. "But you haven't even heard our price, Mr. Centers. I know a man as fairminded as you -- " "I'll never go to Mars." "Remember, you get a special bonus price because of your intelligence and judgment. I'm sure you'll recognize -- " "I have a circulatory disorder. Inoperable. Sorry." Bondman laughed with a finely crafted lack of affectation. "You don't have to go to Mars, Mr. Centers. We're talking about investment." "I told you I wasn't looking for-" "You've studied the plans for Elysium Acres? The phenomenal hundred-mile dome, the luxurious facilities, the nineteenth-century atmosphere -- literally -- the scenic lots? Of cdurse you have. Mr. Centers, you know values. What do you figure it will cost? I mean the entire setup on Mars, gross?" believing it. "Plus upkeep of billions per year." "Would you believe three trillion? But you're remarkably close, Mr. Centers. You certainly understand investment. You merely underestimated the importance of this development to us -- and to the world. We're putting everything into it, Mr. Centers. Another debut we put quality first. Three trillion -- but we know we'll make a profit in the end and of course we have to consider profit, Mr. Centers. We're businessmen, like you -- and believe me, sir, there is a demand. In ten years Earth will be a veritable nightmare and Elysium Acres will be an incredible bargain at any price." Bondman held up a hand to forestall Fisk's possible objection. "I'm not forgetting that you can't go, Mr. Centers. I'm merely pointing out what an attractive investment this is going to be. Some will have the incalculable privilege of retiring to Elysium Acres -- others will merely make a fortune from it. I -- " here the voice dropped to its supercharged confidential tone -- "hope to do both." Bondman paused long enough for that affirmation of faith to penetrate, but not long enough for Fisk to generate an interjection. "Now, we're subdividing E.A. into lots of one hundred feet square, give or take a foot -- enough for a comfortable cottage and garden. Twenty rect, Mr. Centers. That dome is a hundred miles across and there will be eight thousand square miles inside and two and a half thousand lots per mile -- but I don't need to do elementary mathematics for comes to a hundred and fifty thousand dollars per lot. A bit high for Earth, considering they're undeveloped -- but this is Mars! Those lots are priceless, Mr. Centers, priceless -- yet they will be put on the market at a price any successful man can afford." He held up his hand again, though Fisk had made no motion to interrupt. "But Mars, Limited needs operating capital, Mr. Centers, and we need it now. So we are offering for a limited time only a very, very special investment opportunity. You can buy these lots as investment real estate today for a tiny fraction of their actual value. Later -- any time you wish -- you may sell for a handsome profit. So although you may never have the privilege of going to Mars yourself -- and please accept my heartfelt condolences, Mr. Centers, for I know how much you would have liked to retire to Elysium Acres -- you can still benefit materially while advancing a noble cause through your investment." emotive delivery than by the content. Salesmanship really was an art. "How much?" "Mr. Centers, we are offering these lots at -- now listen carefully because this is hard to believe -- at one-quarter price. Thir-ty sev-en thou-sand five hun-dred dollars for a property worth one hun-dred and fif-ty thou-sand dollars." Bondman spaced out the syllables to make the figures absolutely clear and emphatic. "That's my bonus for nabbing your 'interplanetary call' gimmick?" Bondman rolled his eyes expressively but did not take exception to Fisk's choice of words. "Of IF course not, Mr. Centers. That's our one-time special-offer bargain price. For you alone we provide the bonus price. "Don't tell anyone else, because if word got out that anyone beat the bargain price there would be resentment. Even -- " and a great rippling shrug bespoke consequences so vast that to invoke them by name would be foolhardy. Bondman did not speak that mind-shattering figure. Instead he fed it into his mailfax. The full contract emerged from Fisk's slot. He paged through it while Bondman waited expectantly, anticipating the client's amazed pleasure. Thirty thousand dollars. In other words, the straight twenty percent reduction the certificate had promised. Yes, it did seem like a good buy. Still, Fisk had had some experience in such matters. He skimmed through until he found the small print -- actually regular type buried in an otherwise innocuous paragraph. Ownership remained with Mars, Ltd. until the stipulated amount had been paid in full. In the event of default, the property reverted to Mars, Ltd. without refund. The risk of capital was all with the purchaser, unless he bought outright for cash. Very interesting. "Now you see the bargain we are offering you, Mr. Centers," Bondman said gravely. "Frankly, you are one of the very last to receive the thirty-seven fifty figure, let alone the bonus deal. Demand has been even greater than we anticipated, with many people buying multiple lots. Blocks of four -- or even more. There will have to be a price increase. After all, the company needs capital -- it is ridiculous for us to sell so low when our own clients are turning around and selling their lots for more. Why only last week a man sold five for two hundred thousand flat -- and he'd only bought them last month. He made a twelve thousand profit on a three-week investment -- and that's only the one we know about. Others -- " here his shoulders rose in another eloquent shrug. "Where, Mr. Centers, is the limit?" "Why didn't the second buyer come to you first?" Fisk inquired. Actually the described profit was only about six percent and normal fluctuation of the market could readily account for it. But it did seem to auger well for the growth prospects. Fisk could buy five lots for #, not #, and make that much more. "Apparently he didn't realize our price was as low as it was," Bondman said sadly. "He thought he had information. The biggest sucker is the one who thinks he knows it all -- right, Mr. Centers? If he had only checked with us -- but of course our price wont be lower after this week. So he has a good investment anyway -- though not as good as it could have been. If our lots are going for forty thousand -- well, we do need capital," he finished almost apologetically. "You understand." Yes. Fisk was certainly interested now. Buy for thirty, sell for forty -- but he knew better than to appear eager. "I might take a lot or two," he said. "But it's a lot of money. I'd have to liquidate some other investments and that would take time." "I understand perfectly," Bondman agreed instantly. "I had to do the same when I invested in my own first Mars lot. It was well worth it, of course. Fortunately we have a time payment plan exactly suited to your situation. Ten-year term, so that it will be paid up when Elysium Acres opens and the real gold rush begins. Irrevocable six percent interest. Just three hundred and twenty-five dollars a month covers all, Mr. Centers -- we absorb the cover charge. How does that suit you?" in his head. They were fair -- six percent on a decreasing principal. No funny business there, no usury. And he would be able to liquidate his investments profitably within a year and pay off the rest, saving the interest. Some contracts had penalty clauses for early payment, but this one fortunately did not. ' "Sounds good," he admitted. "Good? Good?" Bondman demanded rhetorically. "Mr. Centers, how would you like to buy a cyclotron at the sheet metal price? That's how good it is! But that isn't all. What we are talking about is three-twenty-five a month -- less than eleven dollars a day to control a genuine Marsland property now selling for -- " He broke off, nodding significantly toward the contract with the secret figure. "And with values quadrupling -- or more -- in the period of agreement. Mr. Centers, you are actually investing a paltry three-twenty-five a month for a return of at least a hundred and fifty thousand in a mere decade." Fisk knew. Thirty thousand dollars, plus nine thousand dollars accumulated interest for the tenyear span. For # value. A net profit of #, or over eleven thousand per year -- per lot. With just three lots he could triple his fortune. "Still, it's a sizable amount. Are you sure it's safe? I mean, suppose something happens and the dome IF doesn't get built. The lots would become almost worthless." "Mr. Centers, it certainly is a pleasure to do business with you," Bondman exclaimed. "You don't miss a trick. Of course there is a nominal element of risk. Life itself is the biggest risk of all. But by buying on time you can eliminate even that one-in-a-thousand chance. Just consider. If something should happen to abort Elysium Acres tomorrow -- and I assure nothing short of World War Four could squelch our plans -- and you had bought today and paid your deposit premium, what would you have lost? Three hundred and twentyfive dollars. Why, Mr. Centers -- you must blow more than that on one good suit." Extremely sharp observation. Fisk had paid more than that for his dress suit. Bondman followed up his advantage, knowing he had scored. "Considering the hundred and fifty thousand value -- just what are you risking? One suit." "But suppose something happens in two years. Or nine. I can't afford to lose a suit every month." "Mr. Centers," Bondman said sternly. "I'm a busy man and this call is expensive. Don't waste my time and yours with inconsequentials. If you don't trust the stability of a fine new developer like Mars, Limited, don't invest. Or if you believe it will fail in two years, sell in one year. Your property will have increased in value at least ten percent -- in fact, considering the coming price rise, twenty percent may be a more accurate estimate. But just keep it simple, let's call it ten percent. That's between three and four thousand dollars, right? And how much are you paying per year?" "Between three and four thousand dollars," Fisk said. "So if you sell then, your return on your actual investment will be just about one hundred percent. This is leverage, Mr. Centers -- using a small amount of money to control a large amount of money. And the profit is yours even if, as you say, Mars Limited fails in two years. Or nine. Ha-ha." He leaned forward again, speaking intensely. "The dome may fail, Mr. Centers -- but you won't." Fisk laughed. "Very well, Mr. Bondman. You've sold me. Just give me a little time to check around -- " This was a key ploy. If the salesman were out to take him he would do anything to prevent a fair investigation of the facts. And of course Fisk wouldn't buy without checking. That was the big advantage in being an experienced fifty. He couldn't be stampeded. "Certainly, Mr. Centers. In fact I insist on it. If we were looking for foolish investors we never would have called you. I'll be happy to provide the government property report -- "  "Thanks, no. I just want a few days to make some calls." He was hardly going to use Mars, Ltd. data to check out Mars, Ltd. "By all means. I wouldn't have it otherwise." Bondman paused as though remembering something. "Of course, I can't guarantee your price, Mr. Centers. That increase is going to come through any day now -- perhaps tomorrow. They never let us salesmen know in advance, of course, because some might -- uh -- profiteer at the expense of the customer. But I know it's soon. Your bonus will still apply, naturally, but five or six thousand per lot is a pretty hefty penalty for a day's time. Uh -- do you think you could make it by this afternoon? Say, four o'clock? I don't want to rush you -- and of course it might be as late as next week before the rise -- but I would feel terrible if -- " Bondman would feel terrible if he lost his commmission because an irate customer balked at the higher price, Fisk thought. "I think I can make it by four." That would give him six hours -- time enough. "Excellent. I'll see you then. Bye-bye." And the screen faded. Marslot investment seemed attractive indeed, but he never made snap decisions about money. It wasn't just a matter of checking -- he wanted to appraise his own motives and inclinations. The best buy in the world -- or Mars -- was pointless if it failed to relate to his basic preferences and needs. He punched an early lunch and ate it slowly. Then he began his calls. First the library informational service for a summary of Mars, Ltd. operations. While that was being processed for faxing to him he read the sample contract carefully and completely. It was tight -- he would not actually own the lot until it was completely paid for and he couldn't sell it until he owned it. Leverage? Fla! But apart from that trap, it was straight. He could defang it by purchasing outright. Not to mention the interest he would save. The rundown on Mars, Ltd. arrived. He settled down to his real homework. Interesting -- there was a cautionary note about that "Ltd." "Limited" meant that the developer's liability was limited to its investments on Earthsoil -- of which IF it had none. Its only Earthly en clave was, as Bondman had claimed, legally Mars soil. A nice device for impressive "interplanetary" calls to clients -- but perhaps even nicer as a defense against lawsuit. An irate party might oblars -- but unless he sued on Mars there was nothing for him to collect. What a beautiful foil against crackpots and opportunists. The company was legitimate. In fact it was the largest of its lars worth of Marsland to speculators in the past few years. The Elysium Acres project was listed, too. A note read: see governsighed and punched for it -- it had not been attached to the main commentary. He had a lot of dull reading to do. The phone lighted. The hour was already four. He had meant to make some other checks -- well, they hardly mattered. He had verified that Mars, Ltd. was no fly-bynight outfit. "Did you come to a decision, Mr. Centers?" Bondman inquired, sounding like an old friend. Fisk had decided -- but a certain innate and cussed caution still restrained him. The deal seemed too good to be true and that was a suspicious sign. But aside from the "leverage" hoax he could find no fault in it. He decided not to query the salesman about the time payment trap -- to do so would only bring a glib explanation and more superfluous compliments on his intelligence. Better to let Bondman think he was fooling the client. "I might be interested in more than one lot," Fisk said. "Absolutely no problem, Mr. Centers." Fisk was sure the salesman's warmth was genuine this time. "Simply enter the number of lots you are buying on the line on page three where it says 'quantity,' write your name on the line below, and make out a check to Mars, Limited for your first payment. That's all there is to it, since I have already countersigned. Fax a copy back to us and -- " Fisk's mail chime sounded. "Oh -- the property report," he said. "Do you mind if I just glance at it first? A formality, of course." "Oh, I thought you'd already read that. Didn't I send you one? By all means -- " A buzzer on Bondman's desk interrupted him. "I'm in conference," he snapped into his other phone. "Can't it wait?" Then his expression changed. "Oh, very well." He turned to Fisk. "I beg your pardon -- a priority call has just signaled on my other line and -- well, it's from my superior. Can't say no to him, ha-ha, even if it is bad form to interrupt a sales conference. If you don't mind waiting a moment -- " "Not at all. I'll read the property report." "Excellent. I'll wrap this up in a moment, I'm sure." Bondman faded, to be replaced by a dramatic artist's conception of Elysium Acres, buttressed by sweet music. The connection remained. This was merely Mars, Ltd.'s privacy shunt. shifting connection and Bondman's voice was superimposed on the music. "... tell you I'm closing a sale for several lots. I can't just pull the rug out -- he's signing the contract right now..." A pause, as he listened to a response that Fisk couldn't hear. Then: "To fifty thousand? As of this morning? Why didn't you call me before? Fisk realized that Bondman's privacy switch hadn't locked properly. It wouldn't be ethical to listen and he did want to skim that property report. But the voice wrested his attention away from the printed material. "Look, boss -- I just can't do it. I quoted him the thirty-grand bonus... no, I can't withdraw it. He's sharp -- and he's got the contract! He'd make a good Mars, Limited exec... no, terms, I think... yes, if we could get him to default on the payments, so the reversion clause... hate to bilk him like that -- I like him... no, I'm sure he wouldn't go for the new price. Not with the cancellation of the bonus and all. That's a twenty-grand jump just when he's about to sign... okay, okay, I'll try it -- but listen, boss, you torpedo me in midsale again like this and I'm signing with Venus, Limited before you finish the call... I know they're a gyp outfit. But I promised this client the bonus price and now you're making a liar out of me and cheating him out of the finest investment of the century on a time-payment technicality. If I have to operate that way I might as well go whole Venus hog-" There was a long pause. Fisk smiled, thinking of the tonguelashing Bondman must be getting for putting integrity ahead of business. Fisk knew it was unfair for him to take advantage of a slipped switch and private information -- but he had been promised the bonus price and now someone was trying to wipe it out. If Mars, Ltd. were trying to con him out of his investment, he had a right to con himself back in. "... all right." Bondman's voice came again. "That's best. I'll try to IF talk him out of it so nobody loses. But get those new quotations in the slot right away. Couple of other clients I have to call -- they're going to be furious about that increase, but at least they were warned about delaying... yes... yes... okay. Sorry I blew up. Bye-bye." The music faded. The picture vanished and Bondman reappeared, looking unsettled. "Sorry to keep you waiting so long, Mr. Centers," he said. "Bad news. The offer I was describing to you -- well, I'm afraid we'll have to call it off." "But I just signed the contract,"' Fisk protested innocently. "Are you telling me to tear it up already?" Bondman's eyelids hardly flickered. "What I meant, to say is that the conditions have changed. New government restrictions have forced up construction costs and the whole Elysium Acres project is in jeopardy. In fact, Mr. Centers, we now have no guarantee that there will even be a dome on Mars. Under the circumstances I don't see how I can recommend -- " So that was the pitch. "We all have to take chances, as you pointed out," Fisk said briefly. "I should think that if your expenses go up your prices would follow -- to compensate. So I should buy now." "Er -- yes," Bondman admitted. "Still, it looks bad. I wouldn't want you to be left holding title to a worthless lot, Mr. Centers. Until this thing settles down -- " "One lot?" Fisk interjected with mock dismay. "Lots. I signed up for ten." For a moment even the supersalesman was at a loss for words. "T-ten?" "Why not, for such a good investment? Leverage, you know." "Leverage! Let me tell you something -- " Bondman caught himself. He sighed. He put on a smile of rueful admiration. "You certainly know your business, Mr. Centers. I only hope you aren't taking a terrible chance with a great deal of money. Are you sure?" But, observing Fisk's expression, he capitulated. "Well, then, just make out your first monthly payment for three thousand two hundred and fifty dollars and we'll -- " "Thanks, no. I'm paying cash." Bondman looked so woebegone that Fisk felt sorry for him, though he knew the salesman would still receive a handsome commission along with his reprimand for letting so many underpriced lots go. "Cash? The entire amount?" "Yes. Here is my check for three hundred thousand dollars, certified against the escrow liquidation of my total holdings. That saves you the annoyance of time payments and gives you a good chunk of the working capital you need. Your boss should be well pleased, considering your rising expenses." "Uh, yes," Bondman' agreed faintly as Fisk faxed check and contract back to him. The originals remained with him for his records, but the faxes were legal, too. The deal was closed. He owned the lots outright and could not lose them by payments default. If he needed working capital himself, he could sell one at the fifty-thousand-dollar price tomorrow. Bondman stared bleakly at the documents, then pulled himself together. "It has been a real pleasure doing business with you, Mr. Centers," he said with a brave smile. "I'm sure you'll never regret your purchase. Uh, bye-bye." "Bye-bye!" Fisk returned cheerily as the connection broke. B UT something about the salesman's expression just as the picture faded bothered him. It reminded him of what Bondman had said during the morning call: The biggest sucker is the one who thinks he knows it all... The library information on Mars, Ltd. was general and, of course, bland. Any negative remarks would have made it vulnerable for a libel suit regardless of the truth. It had provided him with essentially the Mars, Ltd. publicity release, but added the cautionary note: see government property Fisk had been about to look at that report when Bondman's boss had interrupted and the privacy switch had coincidentally malfunctioned. Interesting timing. After the price-increase call Bondman had been nervous and stuttery, hardly a supersalesman. His facade had disintegrated -- yet he had known the word was coming. And salesman of that caliber should have been able to cover better than that. Unless the whole thing had been an act to puff up the confidence of a sucker who thought he knew it all. Fisk's hand shook as he lifted the property report, for now he knew what he would find. Plainly printed in red ink: This property is not adaptable for terraforming purposes. The lots are unimproved, unsurveyed and without roads, landing facilities or other improvements. Access is extremely poor. Site is subject to frequent ground tremors prohibiting construction of permanent buildings or erection of static-dome generators. Approximate value per lot is  # . #...  IF AT They needed sustenance, and so did the voracious alien forms Kappa Dome and at the end of their first month together were getting along pretty well -- this in spite of their considerable differences in character and the fact that each of them may have had something to hide. Harvey Callan was a small man, wiry and energetic, an extrovert and an easy conversationalist. Within an hour after they had selected their sleeping quarters and unpacked their gear -- following their arrival at Kappa Dome -- he had been telling them about himself, his travels and his frequent and casual love affairs. He had no wife, no relatives, no attachments. Travel light , he had said. It's the only way to live. Don t get cluttered up with friends and possessions. Money , of course , is different. Every once in a while  collect a wad , but I can never keep it... Some of his talk about himself was undoubtedly true. Nils Lundgren appeared to be Callan's opposite in most ways. He was big, slow moving and rarely talked, never about himself. His accent sounded Norwegian, but he neither confirmed nor denied this nationality. His speech was larded with limited profanities delivered without rancor. He bore more than his share of the work. David Mallory's character seemed to lie somewhere between the other two. He was not talkaCallan's questions about himself. He had been married, he said, but it hadn't worked out and had been ended by mutual consent. He had held a civil service job, something to do with cost accounting, but it had been neither interesting nor remunerative. Out of boredom he had applied for a year's contract able surprise, had passed the physicals and been accepted. His story, too, may have been partly true. The three of them, then, had settled into a casual colleague relationship while maintaining certain reticences. And honoring these in each other. The company which, by right of discovery, would hold the mineral twenty-odd years -- and for which they all worked -- was careful to keep its operations small. There were no useful minerals on the planet, only pebbles of crystalline alumina variously colored by impurities. Emeralds, rubies, topazes and sapphires were at best baubles and would lose most of their value if they became too plentiful. So there were ten domes only, scattered along the ridges that were easiest to harvest, and there were rarely more than forty men who lived and worked there. Then Harvey Callan died during the night and there were only two of them to work Kappa until such time as a replacement might arrive. Callan died in a way to give you nightmares. A slug got him. It was to be hoped that he never knew it. Those who spent time on Midor were in agreement that you lost consciousness instantly when a slug attached -- or maybe when it just touched you. The agreement was wishful thinking, because how did anyone know? The victim never IF moved or spoke or even screamed and in a few minutes after contact he was dead. The slugs could digest their way through almost anything, boots, clothing or human skin, plastics or metals. But a shot of moderate voltage current would kill them fast. So would a laser or flame gun. The instruction manual provided by the company discussed nettles and slugs and other unpleasant surprises Midor could spring on the newcomer, but the advice given was simple. Keep clear of them. Stay out of valleys. When Callan hadn't shown up in the galley for breakfast Mallory went to look for him. He was sprawled across the bed in his room. A slug was attached to his naked chest, its head buried, feeding. Automatically, preferring not to think about it, Mallory did what had to be done. He went to his room for his laser gun. The beam dispatched the slug fast enough and burned a small crease in Callan, too, but Callan was beyond caring. He may have been alive at that moment. His eyes were open but without expression. with the slug, Mallory unstrapped the money belt from Callan's waist and, wasting no seconds, examined its contents. There was money, which Mallory ignored. Two sheets of foolscap covered with minute, rather sloppy script he removed and pocketed. He tossed the belt onto a chair with the rest of Callan's clothing and went to call Nils. Nils stood and stared down at Callan for a minute, then turned away. "You get breakfast," he said. "I'll clean up." Mallory heated coffee and a can of hash and when Nils returned they ate without speaking. "Where is he?" Mallory asked finally. "Outside. That flat place off to the right." "Wired up?" "a, all ready." Mallory sat and considered Nils's impassive face. The features were finely drawn, cast in a mold of scholarship, but Nils's speech was carefully untutored, his manner unfeeling. He seemed to care nothing about Callan's death. But then , thought Mallory, I must give the same impression. Methodically Nils cleared away the remains of their meal. "We search the dome first, maybe," he said. "See how it got in." While they had been eating, the shell of the dome had changed from black to cloudy gray, filtering in as much daylight as would ever reach indoors. The day was only a little lighter outside under Midor's constant mantle of clouds. With all the dome lights v on and with torches and guns in hand the men systematically explored the lounge, each sleeping compartment, the galley, the head and the sorting room. The base area of the dome had been blasted, leveled and fused. There could be no faults there. The plastic shell with its cobweb of wiring was fully charged. In any case, there were no breaks. The slight positive pressure maintained inside was holding steady. In the sorting room Nils stared thoughtfully at the three sacks they had brought in the day before. Mallory nodded. "That must have been it. You and I came in yesterday practically together and I put a charge on both our bags. Callan arrived later. He stopped for a minute in the galley, then came in here. He must have forgotten." "Goddamn bad thing to forget," Nils muttered. "We take care of him now, eh? Before they get to him." Callan's body was loosely wrapped in a tarpaulin, saturated with nitryl and circled with several turns of resistance wire. Nils picked up the connecting cable, glanced briefly at Mallory and closed the switch. The mortal remains of Harvey Callan erupted in white flame and a streamer of dark smoke went whipping down the wind. They stood for some minutes, each engrossed in his own thoughts, until the pyre had diminished to incandescent ash. When it was over they turned back to the dome. "You want to call Iota?" Mallory asked. Nils hesitated. "You do it." . and jiggled the call key. Iota was the dome closest to them and the only one they could reach. They were limited to line-of-sight transmission and Midor's spiny topography provided very few clear channels even on the heights. It began to seem that everybody at Iota was out hunting gems, but at length Peter Amahandra answered. Mallory told him the story succinctly, with Nils sitting close by in the lounge, listening. Peter said that he would pass the word along to Alpha, so that the next of kin could be notified, and Mallory told him there weren't any. He signed off and said to Nils; "You heard me suggest that since Alpha had five men they might like to send us a replacement right away. Amahandra didn't think so. IF Nils shrugged. "You could bet on that. Want to go out -- or sort first?" "Sort first," Mallory decided. "We've got Callan's bag to do. Might as well get it over with." In the sorting room they sat on opposite sides of the table with the screening box between them. A kilo of gems went into the box and a quarter of them fell through into the waste bin. Under strong lights they picked through the rest. Most of the stones were roughly spherical, but some of them were flattened, distorted or badly flawed. These also went to waste. It was a long way to the trading worlds, freight was costly and any gems under about three carats could only depress the market. The sorting went on and on. At last Mallory stood and stretched. "We're caught up. Let's eat something and go." It wasn't raining outside and the roiling clouds that looked so close over their heads showed patches of lighter gray. Even the moistureladen air was more breathable than usual. The weather was good for Midor. Wordlessly the two men went their accustomed separate ways, Mallory westward along the ridge, Nils taking a long diagonal down to a lower level. Presently Mallory paused and looked around, his mind not seriously on gem hunting. Nils's diminished figure could still be seen, threading a zigzag path between points. It wasn't often you could see as far as today. Except for the area that had been blasted around the dome, the points reared themselves in all directions. They were shaped like stalagmites but were largersome immensely larger -- than any limestone stalagmite could have grown. They were granite, hard years of erosion of softer rocks. Usually, not always, there was room to move between them: a deposit of crumbled rock or silt that made a pathway where with caution you could set your feet. In these narrow gullies were the deposits where you found the gems, sometimes lying exposed, more often mixed with gravel. Here, too, you might find slugs, although, thank God, there weren't many of them on the heights. In the valleys were lush growths of stinging nettles, their chief food. Up here there was nothing to tempt the beasts. Nevertheless they came slithering up through the crevices. It started to rain sometime after the men had left the dome, not heavily but enough to spoil the visibility. Mallory pivoted for a habitual look around. There was too much local magnetism for a compass to be useful. It was wisest to extend the search pattern by only a little each day, memorizing the look of the terrain as you went. He might not be doing this much longer, but still. Mallory had a good day. He found one rich gully overlooked before, which, with the aid of the trenching shovel and rake, yielded half a sackful of sapphires and, close to the limit he had set himself for the day, another nearly as good. So he was back ahead of schedule. He shucked his outerwear and boots and searched Callan's room thoroughly, but with as little disturbance as possible. The money belt was lying as he had left it, across a chair. The money was still in it. It wasn't much -- even as the accumulation of half a lifetime to traveling light. He finished his search in ten minutes, mixed himself a drink and fed a tape into the viewer. But instead of watching he thought about Callan and Nils. It was a half-hour or more before Nils stomped in. Mallory switched off the screen and said in response to the other's grunt that he would put together some dinner. He swung open the door to the galley and jumped back with a yell. The place seemed to be swarming with slugs, all over the floor, the table, the oven. He shoved the door shut and put his shoulder against it, a meaningless reaction. The slugs couldn't push doors open. "Is what?" Nils demanded. "What the hell do you think? Slugs. All over." "Where from?" "Who cares? Let's burn 'em first and find out later." Nils could move fast on occasion. He got to the supply room and was back with the flamethrower while Mallory was trying to remember where it was stowed. Nils set the dial for broad flame. Mallory swung the door wide. The slugs were even on the back of the door, three or four of them. Living, they had ' an acrid, nauseating odor. Burned, they smelled indescribable. Still, there was no need for respirators. The men worked in turn, trying to hold their breaths. They left the galley a sooty mess -- free, however, of living slugs -- and retreated to the lounge. The noise of the air pump rose to a whine as the chemical sniffer reported massive contamination. "You saw?" Mallory inquired grimly. "#a." IF "If they'd set out systematically to puncture every food can they couldn't have done it better." "How the hell did they pull down the shelves?" "Ate out the underpinnings, I figure." Mallory made another foray to the galley and kicked around the litter on the floor. "We have enough food for a week or so -- if we don't mind eating the leavings from a bunch of slugs. Not for me. I'm going to call Iota and get them to send over a load. If they can't spare it, one of the other domes can." With the work day over, the radio responded promptly. "Who's that, Barton? Listen, Jake, we've got a mean situation here. You know about Harvey, of course. Yes, we think he forgot to sterilize his sack. Sure, we took care of it, but only after one of them got him. Well, he went into the galley and must have put it down there for a minute and one of them got out and laid eggs all over the place. Sure as hell they hatched. I don't know, fifty or a hundred maybe. We haven't made a body count. What's important is that we haven't any food left. Oh, nuts. You know they can dissolve their way or chew their way, whatever they do, through a metal can in nothing flat. Take a look in your garbage pit. Yeah, we'll find out as soon as the stink is gone, but so what? I'll bet there won't be twenty cans fit to use. The point is, you're going to have to send over some food. Maybe some extra cyanide. We're going to have to sterilize the whole dome. What?" He listened and at length said, "I'll call you back." "That does it," he told Nils. "You'd better get ready for a long walk. All three aircars are at Alpha Dome and they're all out of commission. Their current went off for a few minutes last night and by the time they got it fixed the little bastards had crawled over the repulsor plates and corroded them to the extent that they won't lift. They're grounded till the next ship arrives." Nils stared at him expressionlessly and said nothing. "Thirty-four days," Mallory added, "if it arrives on schedule." l completed a partial cleanup and a count of the cans and foil packs of food that could be eaten safely -- all told, enough for a week. So the trek to Iota was unavoidable. Under any ordinary conditions thirty-three kilometers should have been no distance at all for the two men to cover but these miles were figured as the crow would have flown, had there been any crows on Midor. On foot the course would be twisting and turning between points and, for all except the first few kilometers, it would be territory the men had seen only once and then from the air. Iota and Kappa lay on the same ridge. It, however, angled sharply between the two domes. To follow the peak would have taken the men far out of their way and a straight line march, if one had been possible, would have cut across the lowland swamps. The compromise route, the only feasible one, would descend the slopes nearly to the valley's edge, parallel it, then ascend again toward -- if they were lucky -- Iota Dome. At no point could they expect to see the dome until they were almost on it. They could expect to be as good as lost for two days, guided only by the general slope of the land. It would be useless to leave at night and impossible to fumigate with cyanide without leaving the dome. In consequence Mallory at least spent a jumpy night imagining slugs. Nils appeared to have lapsed into apathy. He did put in some time poring over a virtually useless map. Then, an hour before dawn, he dressed for the trek, gathered his gear together and sat staring aimlessly at the floor. Mallory rechecked the items he proposed to take along. The total was not too different from what they would carry on a usual day. Regulation wearing apparel: coveralls integrated with boots and gloves, neck cloths, hard hats with lamps . attached -- a few food packs stowed in pockets, enough for two or three days. If they weren't at Iota by then it probably wouldn't matter. No need to carry water on Midor. The rain tasted sour and metallic, but it was drinkable. Laser guns. Walkie-talkie, in the hope that it might pick up something when they got close enough to Iota. At the last minute Mallory returned to his room and collected a small handgun that fired anesthetic pellets. It fitted snugly into an inner pocket. He wondered what undeclared items Nils might be taking. He made a last call to Iota to say that they were about to leave. Amahandra wished them luck and promised to be on the lookout. Light and power switches were flicked off. The door closed behind them and they turned their backs gems. Rain was falling heavily and the wind had picked up to eighty or ninety kilometers from yesterday's IF relative calm. Without wanting to do so, Mallory glanced at the patch of Slackened ash -- all that remained of Callan. Most of it had washed away. Nils stepped past him and took the lead. For a while they would be traversing ground with which he was familiar. Mallory was glad to be following. By their watches it was morning, but the sky still seemed quite black and here, close to the heights, the points reared upward fifty to a hundred or more meters. Some light was reaching them, though, and it was easier to find a footing without the headlamps. The rain drumming on their helmets drew slanting silvery lines that looked more like metal rods than discrete drops. Washes of diffuse lightning flickered among the clouds and occasional rumbles of thunder were audible over the rain. At length it seemed to be getting lighter, not so much from the advancing day as from the shorter pointsr -- not that they were shorter in fact, but the rubble between them was increasing in depth and the tracks were wider. They came xinder the lee of a shallow cliff and by unspoken agreement stopped for a breather. It had been evident for some time that Nils was beyond the area he knew. "Want me to go first?" Mallory shouted over the din. Nils didn't bother to answer and after a minute moved on. They scrambled along the top of a scree slope, rocks sliding and rolling under their feet. Once Nils fell and rolled a little distance. The tumble must have been bruising, but he got up and went on without a limp. Three or four kilometers a day was what they were used to walking. By the time they had used up a half-day the calves of Mallory's legs were beginning to knot. His boots had been drawn from general stock at Alpha and had never fitted well. Each change of angle was resisted by his muscles. He and Nils would have to find a place to stop before nightfall, likely less than halfway. Mallory wanted very much to call another brief halt, but he wanted still more not to reveal hi fatigue to the phlegmatic Nils. T HE figure ahead of him disappeared suddenly. "What the hell?" Mallory growled. They weren't a dozen paces apart. He discovered Nils by tripping over him. Nils was apparently on hands and knees. "What the hell?" Mallory repeated. "Foot caught." "Grab my hand." Nils grabbed and heaved and failed to budge. Mallory unshipped the lamp from his helmet and surveyed the situation. Nils's right leg was down in a crevice as far as the knee. Water streamed into the crevice but found a channel below and drained away and Mallory could see the heavy boot jammed between rocks. The foot was twisted. "We'll have to get your foot out first," Mallory said. The boots were equipped with four quick-release buckles, but it was evident that Nils couldn't reach them. Mallory lay down with the lamp in one hand and maneuvered his arm into the hole. From this vantage he could see more and what he could see made his scalp crawl. Less than a hand's breadth from Nils's foot a giant slug was clinging to the rock. Its body was extended, interrupted in the act of rippling upward. The light had startled it into momentary immobility. It couldn't be touched with a laser beam without burning Nils. The gloves that would have given Mallory a few seconds' protection were lying on the ground behind him. He controlled the impulse to snatch back his arm, instead moved his hand slowly and carefully to touch the lowest buckle. It yielded with a snap. The white, translucent body quivered and extended forward. The black, button eyes seemed to be staring straight at Mallory. Each buckle gave in turn. Mallory's arm and Nils's foot came out simultaneously, and the empty boot slipped sideward. An instant later Mallory's laser sliced the slug in two. Nils peered into the crevice, then turned to stare at Mallory, who was tugging on his gloves. "Be damned," he said. "You might have been killed. Trying to save my life. What was the sense in that?" He kneeled and extricated the boot from the crevice. "You're a damned fool, you know. Anyway, thanks." "Sure," said Mallory. "No sweat. This is as good a place as any. Let's eat." He stooped and picked up a nearly perfect spherical emerald of twenty-odd carats, grimaced and tossed it away. Some day it might be found again, to give momentary pleasure to an unknown gem hunter. Their backs propped against the nearest point, they unwrapped and ate a couple of cereal bars, then turned up their faces to wash them down with a drink of water. The rain was diminishing as they continued their descent with Mallory now in the lead and going slowly. Nils was limping and trying not to show it. Their progress became an interminable business of putting one foot in front of the other, of IF pausing only occasionally to hazard a new guess at their direction. Mallory was startled to realize that the day was nearly over and it would be fully dark soon. He switched on his light and waited for Nils to catch up. "The points are nearly covered up. We must be right on the edge of the valley." "Must be." "We can get up on one of them. Some seem to have flat tops." Mallory turned and moved away, scanning the nearer points, and presently found one that looked promising. He climbed it and looked around. To the right -- and very close -- the gray foliage of the nettles spread uninterruptedly farther than the eye could see in the rain-washed twilight. The hills beyond, where Iota Dome should be, were invisible, although a play of lightning suggested their height. The flat area where Mallory stood had room for one man only. Nils was waiting below, swinging his light back and forth along the ground. "No room for two," he shouted down. "Go straight ahead about a hundred paces and turn right. Looks like a good one over there." He remained standing and extended the aerial of the walkie-talkie, knowing there was no reasonable chance of his picking up anything but hopeful of some radio freak. He pushed reception up to maximum and swung the aerial in a ninety degree arc. Not a thing. He looked toward the rock where Nils should now be standing or sitting. He wasn't there. The last light of the day was fading rapidly but there was enough for him to be sure. Mallory muttered an expletive and slid down off the point, aiming his light ahead. T HE rubble had become more silt-like as they approached the valley and he could see traces of footprints. They led at first toward the point Mallory had suggested, then turned sharply down the slope. In a minute he was standing at the edge of the nettles. Nils had gone on. The plants had been pushed apart, leaving an open V that was recovering slowly. Nils must have been mad to try to go through here and Mallory felt like an idiot to be following. He followed nevertheless and found the going less difficult than he had expected. The nettles grew head high, many of them topped by blossoms on which slugs were feeding, but the stems were bare of spines and could be bent aside with gloved hands. Nils's trail stayed clear. In half a kilometer Mallory came upon a rocky knoll several meterk across, the blunted summit of a point on which no plants had grown. He stepped up on it for a look ahead. Nils was using his light not far away. Mallory shouted and plunged down to renew the pursuit. His heel slipped. With a contortion he avoided falling, but his face came into glancing contact with a nettle. It was like being hit in the face by a blowtorch. He let out a bellow of pain and brought up his hand to his face, which was the worst thing he could have done, since it pushed innumerable barbs deeper into his skin. Then he stood, rigid and shaking, commanding all the self-control he could to avoid dropping to the ground and rolling. With tears streaming from his closed eyes he about-faced, felt for the edge of the rock with his feet and scrambled up to momentary safety. There he collapsed in a huddle. Despite the agony of his face r a thread of sane thought persisted. He knew that soon he would be in delirium. That was the second effect of the nettles. He knew that he couldn't stand and walk, couldn't see to find his way out of danger and couldn't protect himself from a slug. His only hope was that Nils might find him. His left hand still gripped the lamp and from between squeezed eyelids he could see it was burning. He began to wave it and with that lost his tenuous hold on sanity, ke cursed and whispered, shouted and sang in a voice that, at best, provided no excuse for singing. He thought he was running and his heels drummed on the rock. He thought he was being buried in glowing coals. Nils found him. He was quiet by then, moaning a little and giving an occasional twitch. First Nils cleaned the rock of two slugs that were drawing purposeful paths toward a source of heat. Then he squatted on his heels and looked at Mallory's almost unrecognizable face. There wasn't much that could be done, but he got out a first-aid pack and sprayed the blistered skin with a mixture of anesthetic and antibiotic. He tied Mallory's hands to his belt with a length of bandage. Then he began an allnight vigil. T HE day, when it came at last, promised to be a good one, with rain only in squalls. Nils could catch glimpses of the distant ridge. Mallory started to rock his head back and forth. "Can you hear me?" Nils asked. "No, you can't get your hands to your face. Don't try." IF Mallory's eyelids flickered open. He made an abortive effort to sit up. "Need a shave," he said. "Can you hear me?" "Yes, sure." "Can you understand what I'm saying?" "Why not?" "Blink your right eye." The eye quivered and closed. "Very well. Your face is a mess, the lower half of it, but your eyes are all right. How do you feel?" "Awful." He spoke with difficulty through cracked and swollen lips. "Keep still. I'll spray your face again. Any feeling in your fingers?" "Hands and feet feel dead." "Yes. The numbness wears off gradually, they say. Until you feel up to walking I may as well tell you a story." "Where's your Norwegian accent?" Mallory asked. "Nils Lundgren was my mother's father. It seemed as good a name to take as any. Not uncommon over there and I could do the accent pretty well. At any rate, it got me off Earth and I thought I was away clear until Callan told me you -- told me who you were." Mallory rolled his head and watched as Nils drew his laser and picked off a slug that was making progress toward them. His vision was somewhat blurred and he squinted to focus on the speaker's face. "I don't want to pretty the thing up. I knew, almost from the time I went to work for him, that Blain was an unscrupulous man and I later knew that staying with him was reprehensible, but I stayed, partly because he paid me very well indeed. I still tell myself that by the time I knew how thoroughly evil he was, I was too deeply involved to leave safely, but that's making excuses. He came to trust me up to a point. I knew five languages well enough to carry on his business negotiations. Some were legitimate. The man couldn't help being honest occasionally. Most of his operations made him money. But then came Asteroid four-oh-eight. Blain himself was played for a sucker. Shall I go on?" "It's your story," Mallory said, "if you want to tell it." He flexed his gloved hands, trying to work some feeling into the fingers. "Yes, I think I'd like to tell somebody why I killed Blain. Soon, I suppose. I'll be telling a lawyer in the hope that he'll figure out some kind of defense. I have no urge to become a martyr. "It was pure luck, my getting to Midor," Nils went on. "How I got out of New York and how I negotiated a contract I won't tell you because it involves somebody who helped me. It would have been fine to have gotten paid off here at the end of my year and to have gone to one of the trading planets. But then I learned that you were U.N. Police. I'm puzzled, by the way. Why United Nations? Did Blain wield so great an influence that his people could call on a world organization to avenge him?" "Go on with your story," Mallory said. "We can come to your question later." V told me, I began to rack my brain for some way to get back to Alpha without you, to break my contract, to get on the next ship going anywhere. But I formed no plan, nothing that was acceptable. Then Callan died and the roof, figuratively, fell in on us. Last night, in pure panic, I set off through these damned nettles with the hope, the very faint hope of reaching Epsilon... It would have been about eighty kilometers in a straight line. I probably wouldn't have made it and I almost didn't care. You might still have come after me -- or, if I could disable their radio for a while, you might assume that I'd died in the swamp and gone on home. You see how desperation robs a man of good sense. "When I came back last night  and found you the thought occurred to me -- I admit it -- that all I had to do was leave you here. You'd never have survived the night. But, damn you, you had saved my life at imminent peril to your own. You left me with the obligation to get you to Iota." "Let's get back to Blain, Mallory prompted. "Yes, of course. I'm being a bit disorganized about this. To go on back-end foremost, these are the facts that will be evident to the court and will probably convict me. I was Blain's secretary. I had keys to any door on the top floor of the building, including his private offices. I knew the combination to his private safe. As I told you, he trusted me up to a point. "On that night he said that he would be entertaining at home. I went to his office. I opened the safe. Blain surprised me there and pulled a gun, an old-style pellet gun, but lethal. I jumped him and took the gun away. He wasn't very strong. Then I shot him. It wasn't an accident as the result of the struggle. I have no such defense. He was lying on the floor and I shot him through the head -- because he had to die." "Very clear," said Mallory dryly. "Yes. The door of his office was then standing open, and within seconds two men, men who were to have had an appointment with him, looked in at me. I was standing over him with the gun still in my hand. So theft you are. There was a scuffle and I broke away, got out of the building and went into hiding. How I got here is, as I said, none of your business. "Asteroid Four-oh-eight. Blain's foot slipped on that. He had been led to believe it was rich in transuranian elements. It was done subtly, but it was the age-old trick of salting. The man who perpetrated the fraud is believed to have committed suicide. That is not pertinent. In any case, when Four-oh-eight was in a favorable position Blain shipped heavy machinery there with supplies and a crew of sixty miners. It cost and there was nothing there to mine. Are you following me?" Mallory nodded. He could move his fingers now inside the gloves, but his feet still felt like blocks of wood. "So the operation was abandoned at a heavy loss. Very well, I learned -- never mind how -- that the flight of the freighter that was to have taken additional supplies to the asteroid had been canceled. Blain had given the order immediately on learning he had been cheated. Furthermore, he was issuing no order for the departure of the larger ship that would be needed to bring home the mining crew. Do you understand? There was enough food, enough water, enough power to carry them for perhaps several weeks, but their oxygen supply could be reckoned in hours. About ninety-six hours as I calculated it. And Asteroid Four-oh-eight was getting steadily farther from Earth. But Blain couldn't bring himself to throw good money after bad. He couldn't spend another quarter of to save sixty lives. I tried to argue with him in terms he would understand. I told him that he would certainly be caught at it. He told me that the records would show there was an ample stock of oxygen. The disaster, when it was learned about, would be attributed to a leak in the system. He wouldn't have gotten away with it, of that I'm sure, but an investigation would have been too late. It wouldn't have helped those miners if Blain wound up in an insane asylum or in jail." "But you didn't report to the authorities," Mallory interrupted. "There wasn't time for process of law. A ship had to be dispatched immediately, within hours, or there would be nobody to save. Let me finish. I went to his office, opened the safe and got out the code he used for his personal communications. There was a teletype machine in the next room. I teletyped Houston in his name and ordered out a ship, highest priority. I waited for acknowledgment and verified the order using the correct symbols. There was no hitch. I went back to his office to close the safe. I planned to be in South America by the time he discovered he had sent a 'rescue mission. Well, you know the rest of it." "There was nothing in the news about the rescue of the men." "Of course not. It was simply the last step of an unsuccessful industrial operation. It was ordered by Blain just before I killed him." "You can't prove a damn thing, can you?" "Nothing. But I thought I'd like you to know. Do you think you can walk?" "Unstrap my hands." "I will if you can remember not to touch your face." made it to his feet and stood uncertainly. "Good. Now put your hands on my shoulders and try to keep step. I'll go slowly and I'll take care of nettles and slugs. Just keep your mind on walking. We're going to get out of the valley the shortest way, the way we came in. Then we'll skirt it. Ready?" There was a knack, Mallory discovered, to stumping along on feet that had no sensation. After a few stumbles they worked out a lockstep gait that made steady, slow progress. In a little while they were on higher ground. The pain in Mallory's face was subsiding to the degree that his thought processes seemed to realign themselves from time to time. The decision that had to be made had in fact been reached earlier, but he shied away from recognizing it and making it irrevocable. They found a spot where, after Nils had scouted it for slugs, it seemed safe to sit and rest. Twice they halted to eat, a difficult business for Mallory. At midafternoon they agreed to start the trek upward. Before they had gotten out of the area of low points Nils stopped abruptly and pointed to a spot where a circle of white light showed against the gray clouds. After a moment it could not be mistaken. "They've used their heads," Nils said. "Rigged a search-light to play on the clouds. Can you hold up for another hour or so of walking?" "With a couple of breaks, yes. IF My feet are getting some feeling in them." He displayed the pellet gun. "When we get closer this will make a noise and may bring them to us. First, I've got some talking to do." "Go ahead." "Question. How well did you get to know Callan?" "Not well at all -- in spite of all his talk." "Right. It was mostly fabrication. Callan was a professional thief, not a vefy important one. He held a long string of jobs and was reasonably competent at some of them, but they all ended the same way. He stole something, often trivial, and disappeared. On his last job he made a mistake. He stole something important." Nils stared at him with an expression of shock. "Are you saying that his last jobs was with United Nations?" "Yes." "And that he stole something from them?" "That is correct. He was a messenger, cleared to carry classified documents up to confidential. One day he was handed an envelope containing currency, about ten thousand stellars, and told to deliver it to another office. The theft of the money was an embarrassment, no worse. Unfortunately, along with it was another envelope containing a long-hand draft of a resolution pertaining to relations between two of the nearer planets. The draft itself would have been no great loss, but the writer had added some marginal notes that would have been taken as offensive by one of the parties and could have seriously damaged the U.N. reputation. Callan didn't know what he had, but he was thought to have kept it. He was an opportunist. I was sent after him to recover or destroy it." "And did you?" "Yes." Nils stood silent for a time. Then he asked quietly and flatly, "Now what?" Mallory offered a silent farewell to principles that had guided him for two decades. "Now," he said, "we get on into Iota. For myself, I'm going to be reporting that I can't take much more of Midor. I'll break my contract and head for home on the earliest ship. I suppose that you, Nils, will finish out your year." "What I told you -- " Nils began. "What you told me?" Mallory repeated. "You mean back there when I was out of my head? Seems to me you were telling me some long, involved story about some people I never heard of before. I couldn't make head or tail of it.  (Continued from page #) Most Americans already invest in the future in some manner -- and all have an investment in the growth and progress of human knowledge. Beneficial byproducts of the Space Program now nearing its end already have touched nearly all Americans. There's ammunition. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Just finished reading If (February, #) and I thought I would comment on a great issue. I particularly liked Patterns of Chaos, by Colin Kapp. Kapp is masterful with his prose -- and with his imagination! Gail Habbyshaw Mercer, Pa. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I've been reading Colin Kapp's serial. Patterns of Chaos, and so far it has held my interest. One thing about the novel constantly disturbs me -- the barrage of cliches in the characters' conversations. For instance, " Jet off Jaycee -- " or " Spool it, Bron -- " or " Get off my back -- " etc. The infighting between Bron, Doc, Jaycee and Ananias also tends to seem phony, mainly because it is overdone and too lengthy. I'd like to see a little more subtlety in the clash of emotions. Kapp gets carried away in these sections and the characters seem oblivious to what is happening around them. Still, it's a good story and I hope you have more as enjoyable. I think Lester del Rey may have been expecting a bit too much from Ursula K. LeGuin's new novel. The Lathe of Heaven. From his review LeGuin's novel would seem much worse than Simak's A Choice of Gods. I've read both and I hardly think the LeGuin is inferior to the Simak work. Both actually depend a great deal on the emotional povJer they build up, a sort of rolling, flowing tide that peaks and ebbs at the story's climax. For me there was as much nostalgia in LeGuin's novel as there was in Simak's. Your comments on fantasy and your reply to Henry Bitman's thoughts on the purpose of fiction (in the February Ifj were most just, I felt. But I am surprised that you never thought to connect them. Since, as you say, fiction simulates nothing but is valid within itself, then it doesn't really matter whether the fiction is fantasy, sf, mainstream, mystery or whatever. All are equally valid -- they create a vivid reality of their own, or should if the story is well written. And, of course, every story has an emotional relevance to the real world -- which is what I think you were referring to regarding Arnten of Ultima Thule. You may print my address. Cy Chauvin I # Peters Roseville, Mich. # You're right on Arnten of Ultima Thule. The story also deals with the imagery of faiths and beliefs that have validity simply because people have believed -- some still do -- that all life as we know it has unity. Subscribers Please Note: Change of address Lazar. Manager. IF Fulfillment Department # Secatogue Avenue. Farmingdale. N.Y. I #. Allow # to # weeks. IF For S-F buffs only... m These are top-selling paperback volumes of first quality. All are written, selected and edited by outstanding names in the fields of science fiction and fantasy. # issues of If for # (# less than the regular subscripa # issues of IF for # (# less than the regular subscripB # issues of IF for # (# less than the regular subscripc I # issues of IF and # issues of our distinguished sister magD P.O. Box #. Farmingdale, N.Y. # Enclosed find  in payment for subscription indicated. (Circle offer desired.) A B C D Please send me the book(s) I have checked at right. (Please Print) Name Add ress City State Zip    Robert Bloch. A#I Stefan Santesson. A# Barjavel. A# Silverberg. A# Silverberg. A# Silverberg. A# Alternate choice (if any of above go out of stock). This offer expires September #, #. Outside U.S. add # for each #-issue subscription, # for each #-issue subscription. Sorry, no orders (Seal gummed flap here) You can get tan. And you can get cancer. Maybe you think you look better tan. Tan looks healthy. But under that healthy glow you could be giving skin cancer a head start. So if you spend a lot of time in the sun, or if you work outdoors and you have a sore that doesn't seem to heal, see your doctor. Almost all skin cancers can be cured if diagnosed early. If you have fair skin, cover up. And if you've been lucky so far, plan on a little less sun this year. You'll be better off for it in the long run... We want to wipe out cancer in your lifetime. Give to the American Cancer Society. The acceleration started with Hiroshima. Without warning, we switched to mechanized lives, disposable goods, impermanent allegiances. We entered the plug-in, throw-away, rent-a-thing, forget-a-person age. We began using up products, ideas, people at a dizzying rate. Some people thrive on the pace. Others find it terrifying. Some simply refuse to recognize it, abruptly colliding with the future and suffering an adaptive breakdown. Alvin Toffler calls it "future shock." What's the preventative? Start with the Science Fiction Book Club. Science Fiction predicts future change long before it becomes with trial membership I" Science Fiction Book Club #-S#A I Dept. BL-#, Garden City, N.Y. # I Please accept my application for membership in  the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the #  books whose numbers I have written in the boxes I below. Bill me just # (to help cover shipping) for J all #. About every # weeks, send me the club's I bulletin. Things to Come, describing the # coming j Selections and a variety of Alternate choices. If I  wish to receive both Selections, I need do nothing; I they will be shipped to me automatically. When ever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an  Alternate, or no book at all, I will notify you by j the date specified by returning the convenient I form always provided. I I need take only # Selections or Alternates during J the coming year, and may resign any time there after. Most books are only #, plus a modest j charge for shipping and handling. Occasionally, I extra-value Selections are slightly higher. ! return the entire introductory package within #  days. Membership will be canceled. I owe nothing. Mr. Mrs.  Miss Print name Address I I City I  State Zip I I If under #, parent must sign above. Office use only reality: the Atomic Bomb, the UN, computers, vision phones, organ transplants, moon landings, test tube babies... you name it. Eventually Science "Fiction" comes true! It leaps to life from the pages of some of the most provocative, stimulating, imaginative literature you can find. If you'd like to be prepared to meet tomorrow, we invite you to share the excitement with us today. Choose any # books for just # (to help cover shipping). Best of all, you can make one of them Future Shock, "the best single rendering of what the future may hold." Psychology Today. It's easy to join. The coupon tells how. #. Future Shock by Alvin Toffler. National Best Seller. "Essential reading for those... committed to controlling their destinies." Psychology Today. Pub. ed. # #. A Choice of Gods by Clifford D. Simak. Devastating novel. Robots take over earth, everyone except a family and Indian tribe . Pub. ed. # #. Childhood's End by Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth. Wildly fantastic!" -- Atlantic. Pub. ed # #. Stranger In a Strange Land by Robert A. Heinlein. He knew the Martian love secret -- and it spelled his doom. Pub. ed. # #. The Hugo Winners, Vol. I  II. Giant #in-I volume of # award-winning stories. # to #. Asimov introduces each. Pub. ed. # #. The Ice People by Rene Barjavel. Great French bestseller, prize winning novel of discovery of prehistoric man and woman, who come to life! Pub. ed. # #. World's Best Science Fiction #. Wollheim and Carr. Eds. # extraordinary stories by famous writers in annual anthology. #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners." chosen by Sci-Fi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. # #. Dune by Frank Herbert. Celebrated winner of Hugo and Nebula. Grip? ing tale of amily exiled from their private planet to another, a barren desert. Pub. ed. # #. A Treasury of Great Science Fiction, ed. by Anthony Boucher. # Volume set. # pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # #. The Foundation Trilogy by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. # #. Can You Feel Anything When I Do This? by Robert Sheckley. # bizarre glimpses into the future, Including a wildly different ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in Canada. SCIENCE FICTION  OCTOBER #  # Lester Del Rey picks the best This inaugural volume of a new annual series includes fifteen stories selected by Lester Del Rey as the best published in magazines or original books during #. "There are few people who are firstclass science fiction writers themselves and first-class judges of the quality of the science fiction other writers produce. Of these douhle-threats Lester Del Rey is one of the most outstanding. When he says, 'These are the best,' I listen and I read and I enjoy. This book is the proof." # at booksellers or order directly from ; Dept. B E.P. Dutton, #I Park Avenue South New York, New York # I enclose check or money order for # (plus applicable sales tax). Name Address Th paper time machina also a tool; a time machine that enables you to replay the crucial events -- past, present, and future -- that shape our lives. Now, instead of merely reading about what's happening, you can explore and experience the alternatives and decision points through the technique of Conflict Simulation. What is Conflict Siimiiation? Conflict Simulation is a way of analyzing a political or military conflict situation. A' way that is as intellectually stimulating as a game of chess, and as thorough as a written analysis. Through the use of the Conflict Simulation (or "game") format, the conflict situation is re-created -- so that you are in a position to make the vital decisions and, in the game at least, change the way things were, are, or will be. What you got ed bi-monthly. Each issue contains: A' A ready-to-play conflict-simulation game with a # X # ' playing surface, die-cut playing pieces, and complete rules. A An analytical article on the same subject as the game in that issue. A Other feature articles on historical and military subjects. A Game and book reviews, commentary on existing games, and discussions of subscribers' questions. The magazine is #  pages long, and all material is handled in a highly organized (and easily understandable) graphic format. bat in Western Europe, #). We also publish a separate line of conflictsimulation games, which you will find listed in the coupon. Free to new subecribers battle presented in a game-design specially created to introduce new readers to Conflict Simulation. Send check or M.O. to; Simulations Publications Inc. Otpt #M # Eait #rd St... New York. N.Y. # Please enter my subscription to S.  T. for: I Year (# issues)-S#S # Yra. (# issues)-t#S # Yra. (# issues)-S#S Current issue # Send me the following Simulation Qames; Kurak (Russia. #)-# Korea (#-#I )-a Phalanx (ancient Greece)-# Barbaroaaa (Russia. #-#)-M Uipxle (Napoleonic Wars, #)-# Normandy (the D-Day lnvasion)#  Please send me your free brochure. City State Zip ##ptmbr-OctolMr # Vol.#,No.# ItsiM # AmoM B. Atrmmson, Pubiishsr Lester del Rey, Feeture Editor fihrMobtson.EMor Th#odorm SturgMtn. Contributing EtlHor JudYLYnnBmniomln, Managing Editor Jack Gaughan. Art Diraetor dof Tuniek, dreuiation Diraetor L. C. Murphy. Subscrtion Diraetor Zech Hughes # UnKrarsal Publishing  Distributing Corporation. Arnold E. Abramson. Prasidant Main Officas: # East # Straat, Naw yoric N Y. #. Singla copy: #s. #-issua subscription: # in U.S... # alsawhara. Kingdom by Univarsal-Tandam Publishing Company, Ltd... # Gloucastar Road, London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson, Chairhian of tha Board. Ralph Stokas, Managing Diraetor. Singla copy: #p. #-issua subscription in tha Unitad Kingdqm: #. Ammican Copyright Convantions. All rights rasarvad. Sacond class postal paid at Naw York. N.Y. arid additional mailing officas. Tha puWishars assuma no raspohsibility for unsolicitad malarial. AH storias printad in this magazina are fiction and any simHarity batwaan charactars and actual pars o ns is eoincidantal. Printad in U.S.A. Keep science in perspective We don't see science in isolation from the other activities of man. Our main purpose is to encapsulate scientific news into a readable weekly format to provide accurate, up-to-theminute facts arrd commentary about what's happening in the world of science. To provide intelligent discussion of public issues related to science. And to put it all into perspective. Our readers include eminent scientists keeping up on fields outside their specialties -- as well as engineers students, teachers and laymen. You'll like Science News. You'll find it gives you a fresh perspective on the world of science. That ought to be worth more to you than #, but that's all you need to pay for # concise, lively, weekly issues. Mail the coupon today. science A Science Service Publicetion #I W. Center St. Marion, Ohio # Send me # weekly issues of  I enclose #.  Bill me. IF# UE vri'r ,uui Wforuf' Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I just finished reading Patterns of Chaos Colin Kapp) last night and it thrilled me so much that I felt I must write and congratulate. The last novel you published that took me equally was I Will Fear No Evil (Robert A. Heinlein). I also enjoyed Dark Inferno and The Gods Themselves. Td like to comment on some recent trends in science fiction. Now that man has been to the moon I no longer find near-space science fiction too speculative. Voyages beyond the solar system, even beyond the galaxy, based on what we know, remain exciting. Also the concept of social science fiction is growing in importance as it begins to answer many questions that need answering. I had my doubts when your magazines changed ownership and editors in '#, but now  confess you've made the Galaxy If combo a treat to receive each month. Roy J. Schenck Canisteo, N. Y. the title of the story or even the author. But I'll never forget the plot. Let me tell it briefly against the possibility that you or one of your readers might remember. A starship leaves Earth -- purpose of the voyage is exploration. The ship is a mile long, carries hundreds of experts. Several generations pass and the ship is not heard from. Earth has developed more efficient space drives -- her ships range the galaxy and one comes on the lost ship. The lost explorer had reached far out, lost its power source. It had, however, a "space anchor." For generations the people on board have been locking the anchor in space at one end of a track running the length of the ship. Working in massive shifts, the people on board "walk" the ship forward past its mooring, release and reset the anchor forward, begin again -- literally walking the ship home a few miles a day. A religion has grown out of this activity. Would-be rescuers discover that it would destroy these people to be told their faith and efforts were unnecessary and they're left to finish the journey on their own. The plot is distinctive and I hope the story hasn't just faded into the past. I would like to find a copy.  Mrs. ) Carl Vernon Weiss # West #th Street New York, N. Y. # Dear Mr. Jakobsson: There is a science-fiction story I'm trying to relocate. I read it a number of years ago in one of the better magazines -- can't remember which one or The story's one I regret to have missed. Can anybody out there lend a hand? IF .adapters; I   #-pc. Chrome Socket Set -- Drive ##  # ' #  I V # pc Not Driver  Set with itv own Pouch Reveriible Ratchet, "L-Hondle" ond Adapter.  #-pc. W drive Socket Wrench Set, including # Sockets, "l-Hondle" and Adapter.  #-pc. #" drive Socket Wrench Set, including # Sockets and "L-Hondle".  Handy Metol Troy for three Socket Sets.  #-pe. Screw Driver Set  #-pc. Nut Driver Set.  #-pc. Open End Wrench Set.  A-pc. Cold Chisel Set.  #-pc. Ignition Wrench Set.  #-pc. Hex Key Set.  #-pc. Drill Bit Set with fitted Cose. Metol Tote Box. ere a#ao OAwe Bi aaaaib# -. Hente Ave., Froeport, N. Home handyman, amateur mechanic, or just plain tinkerer I  I Set for #.Bf # postage, handling and insurance. here's your chance to get a whole workshop of profes Enclosed is  chock Q money order for  sionat quality hand tools... In their own handy tote box a all at an unbeatable low price! Equip yourself with this  Name (Print) tremendously versatile, amazingly complete outfit... and  Address you'rereadyforjustaboutany repair job that comes alongl I s) Jay Norris Corp., #. wl# on this Mechanics All-Purpose Tke Complete Workshop That You've Always Wanted! Makes Any Jab Ga Guicker . , . iaskr itself conspicuous, looming high above the loftiest of the long chain of rugged peaks that made a backbone for the planet. And when Cap'n Jules Griffin brought in the Stardust, easing down through layers of clouds toward magnificent sweeps of sunlit terrain below, that summit was a natural focus for our curiosity. tellow while we re in the neighborhood," I suggested. "Let Pegleg have a ball. I'm no expert at measuring, but that ought to make Everest look like a medium-sized molehill." "Better than forty thousand He had, I knew, been eyeing the big peak from the time we began visual reconnaissance. He adjusted his triangulation glasses. "This one breaks my record by thousands. Mount Rasmussen on Primrose Four was thirty-four seven, as you recall. Named it for Johnny because he's top man and I doubted that I'd ever see a higher one. Sorry, Johnny." Dr. Johannes Rasmussen didn't seem particularly upset. But then, he never did. He leaned back in the Director's chair, long, thin and immaculate as always. He looked as though he had shaved within the hour. His mustaches were waxed to points. But his eyes twinkled behind his reserved, still face. "Your intentions were good. Dr. cbuldn't ask. I'm quite content with Mount Rasmussen on Primrose Four. I'll certainly not take its picture down from my office wall because we've discovered a higher peak. I am many things, but, I hope, not fickle." Usually formal and grave, occasionally Johnny would fool you. No man crossed him when he said things for sure and many of the crew never found him other than cerebral and remote. But in the control room of the explorer ship Stardust we were men who knew each other well. We were all a part of what would be the legend of the Stardust -- had been from the beginning. Moe Cheng sat quietly in the navigator's seat. For the moment his responsibilities were over. He had guided us across trackless space, stage after Ultraspan stage, until the little yellow dot that the space charts called Olympus had Probably only Moe Cheng could have done it. Certainly no one has ever known as much about the galaxy as this big-nosed, slanteyed little man. The big peaks of Olympus's second planet turned beneath us as Cap'n Jules swept the ship in a vast circle around the mighty jumble of crags and pinnacles that made up the most impressive uplift any of us had ever seen. Great glaciers flowed down its shoulders. Below them green and gray sweeps of tundra merged with dark forests crowding up from the valleys and foothills. It was an Earthlike scene, but in giant scale. I thought of the Himalayas, the Andes, the Icefield Ranges of the St. Elias. It was all of them and more. Much, much more. T he true peak, the pinnacle of pinnacles, was hidden from us. Clouds swirled in slow circles and the summit was lost in them. The presence of that much moisture so high augured well for the condition of the atmosphere. Unless, below, it was a world of heavy, humid, unbreathable air. I can say only that from our point of vantage it didn't look it. "Now i see," Pegleg said, "why this system was called Olympus. That's Mount Olympus out there. IF The genuine article. Couldn't have named that peak after you anyhow, Johnny. It already has a name." "Only one drawback," i agreed. "Until this moment nobody knew it was here -- unless, maybe, Ursula has already had some input. She's probably been in communication with Apollo by now." "Zeus," Pegleg corrected firmly. "Ursula doesn't deal with underlings. She'd contact the top man." If you're beginning to suspect that we were not entirely serious you're catching on. It's the way we operate. Behind the swirling mists of our whimsical dialogue the solid structure of our real thinking lay in orderly and efficient patterns. As I watched I was automatically separating the impressive terrain into ecosystems, subconsciously groping for the best study plan. Ecology is my competence. And I knew that Pegleg, galactic geologist extraordinary, by now was analyzing the uplift with experience gained on many planets, using it to structure an insight into the history of this world that would be as valid as anything our instruments could tell us. The same procedures were going on all over the ship. Experts in many fields had activate their expertise. Dr. James Peters, chief zoologist, would be mentally organizing his exploring and collecting teams, speculating on what the habitats in view might contain and yield. Dr. Winifred Hcffelfinger, Winkle to a few of us andmy choice of all the botanists who ever swung a field pick, would be readying her vascuta and presses and drooling over the collecting possibilities in the varied world below. To Winkie no object was more beautifuf than the bleached and desiccated carcass of a plant on an herbarium sheet, a defendable name in impeccable Latin attached. To each his own. She's still one of my favorite people. I could list them all, meteorologists, limnologists. oceanographers, radiation specialists, communications experts, language enthusiasts, archeologists -- just know that they were all aboard. None better existed in their various fields and in addition each had the unique personal stability that our strange profession requires. Earth was thei birthplace, but space was their home. And would always be. We've mentioned Ursula Potts. Even aboard the Stardust Ursula was different. Little; wizened, old, with strange pale eyes and a big bun of gray hair on the back of her head usually thrust full of paint brushes, Ursula looked more like a galactic hitchhiker than a valued member of the Stardust team. Ursula painted. And somehow those paintings revealed what our most intricate equipment did not detect. Johnny Rasmussen treated them with the same respect he gave to the most profound field report. And rightly so. With uncanny perception they pulled together and gave more meaning to the results of a look-see. around the great peak, we knew that Ursula had already extruded her transparent bubble of a studio. Seen from afar, it jutted from the ship's featureless hide like a pale parasite. And there, in radiatron-shielded comfort, Ursula's magic brushes were seeing the mountain a little differently, a little more concisely than even the technical perfection of the endlessly clicking recording cameras. "Wish those clouds would blow off a little," I said. "I sort of hanker to see what the pinnacle looks like. And we could get an accurate measurement." "They can't blow away, Roscoe," Pegleg said. "You know that. That's where the gods live." "You're milking a gag," I retorted. "Couldn't we use a dissipator, Johnny, and get a look at the summit while we're close?" "I've been watching. Dr. Kissinger," Johnny Rasmussen said gravely. "Look carefully at those mists. Are they moving as clouds normally move on a mountaintop? You have experience in these things." Trust Johnny. Nothing gets past him. I should have noticed the difference myself. The clouds swathing Mount Olumpus were moving in a tight spiral, a steady whirlwind flow, counterclockwise. Air currents just don't behave like that. And as we watched the motion grew less, the streaming clouds stabilized into huge fluffy masses, and then slowly reversed the flow. I knew Pegleg was as surprised as any of us, but his narrow face was tranquil. "You see?" he asked. No one came up with a good answer. The clouds speeded up the clockwise spiral, spread into bands and the bands were moving at different rates. The phenomenon wasn't all that obvious and the casual observer might not even have been aware -- but there it was. I saw Jules Griffin lean forward! in his chair and press a small blue button. Nothing seemed to happen, but we all felt easier. The Stardust now moved behind an incredible shield of energy turned in on itself, a forcefield that would repel any power we could envision. It was almost ultimate protection. If old Zeus had chosen to hurl his thunderbolts out of those peculiar clouds three would have got you twenty that they would have bounced off us. We made one more hiihdredmile swing around the giant peak. From all over the ship sensors were focused on it, photographing, listening, probing, analyzing. Data piled up. When it was all put together, collated and organized, we would know about that mountain. Or so we thought. IF T he five of us in the control room structured the drop-in, as always. If, by rare and tragic chance, Johnny Rasmussen should ever become unable to command the Stardust any one of the other four could take over. It had never happened. We didn't think it ever would. But we represented the foresight that made Johnny what he was. He had backups for everything, even himself. We had been in orbit -- swinging three thousand miles above the planet's surface -- for the past five hours, verifying the life picture. The Stardust's function is the discovery and investigation of living worlds. We're getting good at it. We know by now the properties of the suns most likely to encourage life on their satellites. And by that I mean life as we know it. We're aware of the possibilities of othertypes of life, with unknown chemical affinities and interactions, but they're not our concern. Curiosity has to stop somewhere. Good, carbon-centered, oxygenrespiring entities are scattered through the galaxy on a myriad worlds. We know that now. We're finding them ever more consistently. And our orderly, patterned coverage and procedure will provide a template for the planning of the inevitably wiser, more learned explorers who will follow us. But this is our heyday, our zenith. As I write these reports there are none like us anywhere. "I think, gentlemen, that this alters our landing plans somewhat." Johnny Rasmussen had punched for a brandy from the console by his chair. His long fingers lovingly and gently twirled the small goblet. That meant he was thinking. "Come now, Johnny, we can't be bluffed by a cloud." Pegleg sounded outraged. I knew the mountain fascinated him. The chiefs teeth showed briefly beneath his neat mustache. "You misunderstand. Dr. Williams. I propose a closer landing that the one agreed on. If the cloud hides what we ought to know -- perhaps it would be handy to establish base nearby." "I accept your apology for not being x:lear," Pegleg said gravely. "How close is closer?" Johnny raised an eyebrow. Like all of us he lives with Pegleg's sour personality, laced through with sly, completely irreverent humor. "Dr. Kissinger's advice would be helpful here. You're a highcountry man, Roscoe. Would it be feasible to establish base above timberline -- say on one of the long tundra slopes that fan out below the glaciers? There seem to be several good-looking possibilities." "Not only feasible but desirable," I said promptly. We were all studying the slowly turning panorama below us on our viewscreens. "We'll be high enough to have every type of terrain in view -- at much better perspective than at the lakeside we had in mind. And Mount Olympus and its cloud would be right in the front yard." "Pretty high altitude for the casual hiker, though," Pegl reminded us. "Say fourteen to fifteen thousand feet above mean sea level. Nose-bleed country for the average citizen. I've got a feeling that people won't want to do their off-duty strolling in oxygen masks." "Won't be necessary," I said. "You're thinking Earth again. This is Olympus Two, remember. The planet is bigger, the atmosphere much thicker. I haven't checked the data, but I'll guess that three miles up will not be far off Earth sea-level normal. Sea level here would be dense, muggy, oxygen-rich. Uh-uh. We'll all be happier up there." "I'll join you," Pegleg said humbly. "My thinking was no clearer than Johnny's communicating. I vote for the tundra." "Mr. Cheng?" "Very reasonable. I am in favor." "Captain Griffin?" Cap'n Jules said nothing. He regards conversation as a waste of time and when he does speak he never fascinates anybody. A duller man never drew breath -- conversationally, that is. But the mighty timonium engines that drive the Stardust in finite space wag their tails at the slightest touch of his blunt fingers and he is one of the very few man alive who can implement Ultraspan. Now he simply raised his right hand, joined the thumb and index finger. II picked our stretch of rolling high-country meadow and Cap'n Jules guided the Stardust in, her fifteen hundred feet of glistening bulk gliding to a full-length landing as gracefully as a bit of thistledown drifting down a sunbeam. No savage outpourings of braking energy. No shuddering, jarring loss of acceleration. These things are only history now. The great ship's thousands of tons of mass were completely nullified by her new timonium antigravs. We experienced no sense of landing at all. We simply ceased to move. And around us the tundra swept away, gray and brown and red and yellow with lichens, bright with wide stretches of short-stemmed highcountry flowers. Johnny Rasmussen murmured into a microphone. Shortly the ship's intercom came alive, rumbled and cleared its throat. Stony Price, communications chief, always read the landing communique. "The Stardust has landed. Olympus Two awaits us. Whether or not it's with open arms or an open mouth remains to be seen. All data indicate a compatible world, but IF final checks remain to be made. Dr. Rasmussen suggests that tentative reconnaissance patterns be adjusted to our present location, fifteen thousand two hundred feet above mean sea level. There ;are reasons for this. Don't blame me. You'll be notified when checks are completed. Meanwhile feast . your eyes on Mount Olympus." "Open mouth," Pegleg growled. "Stony's the one with the open mouth."' "You do hate competition" I said. "Look at your viewscreen and be glad. There are more rocks out there than we've found for you in the last five landings. Count your blessings. Take what the gods provide." "Oh, I'm humbly grateful," Pegleg said. He eyed the viewscreen, then looked quizzically at me. "As for the gods -- I see no reason why we shouldn't thank them personally since we're going to live next door." Once Pegleg gets an idea he worries it. And inevitably I am involved. Since we're both essentially field men and our areas of concern overlap we usually work together. Always have. With many people a little of Pegleg goes a long way, but we complement each other neatly. I've loosened up a lot of tight places for him and there have been times when I've been mighty grateful to be backed up by the cold nerve and lancing laser of Pegleg aware that there is a paperback publisher specialising in science fiction and producing four bobks every month. By the time this ad appears, twenty titles will have been published since April. They include books by Andre Norton, Gordon R. Dickson, A. E. van Vogt, Lloyd Biggie, Jr., Philip K. Dick, Mark has ever been in paperback before. If you've missed any of these, haunt yellow spine-coloring -- they won't be hard to spotl one of his best time-travel adventures. Louis Trimble has a novel that combines planet-colonizing with linguistics. a real treat for the sf addict in Egon only known sequel to H. G. Wells's classic. This is an important sf discovery, as well as a memorable reading experience. Donald A. Wollheim is the publisher and editor. We are distributed by The New American Library, Inc., publishers of Signet. Mentor and Plume Books. Successful drop-in completed, we left Control to Cap'n Jules, who sat as stolidly as a stone man in his master's chair. I've often wondered what he thinks about as he sits like that, white head erect, pale eyes vacant. But the results are good. As long as we have Cap'n Juljes and Moe Cheng, logistics will never be a worry. corridor complex, headed for our respective labs. A door opened and the most beautiful woman I have ever seen came through. Tall, graceful, with a magnificent figure, fine, clean-planed features, live green eyes and red curls tumbling to her shoulders -- in the galaxy there couldn't be another like her. I reached out an arm, pulled her to me and gave her the kind of kiss a man should give to a woman like that. Or as near as I could manage. She clung to me for a moment, then slowly pushed my arms away. Her green eyes danced. "Roscoe," she said. "What will the neighbors say?" "Disgusting," said Pegleg. I've been married to her for nine Earth years. They seem like nine weeks. Ultraspan stages into the depths of the galaxy, to nervegrinding episodes on strange worlds -- these are only the commonplace occurrences of dayto-day living as long as I have Lindy. With her, anywhere in the universe is home. She's not just Mrs. Kissinger. Dr. Linda Peterson was the first and is the only, microbiologist the Stardust has ever had. No one can approach her knowledge of galactic microforms. And no foot is placed on a new world until Lindy's report is in Johnny's hands and he has analyzed it carefully. The Stardust could not do without her any more than I could. I could tell by her relaxed smile that her sampling chores were already well in hand. And that the news was probably good. She strolled down the corridor with us, her fingers twined with mine. "Well," said Pegleg, "don't hold out. Any nasty little varmints in the air? Looks like a pretty good deal out there. Don't spoil it if you can help it." "The girls are running final checks," Lindy said. "Give them another thirty minutes. At this altitude at least everything looks clear." She looked from me to Pegleg. "Speaking of altitude, whose idea was it to set down halfway up a mountain range? I don't suppose Roscoe's love affair with tundras or your everlasting yen for base rocks had anything to do with it." "No scientist jumps to conclusions." Pegleg oozed disdain. "You do. Johnny thought this up all by himself. We just agreed with him." My wife turned to me. "I'm a simple person, so he IF makes no sense to me. What gives, Roscoe?" I grinned and squeezed her fingers. "He's reporting correctly. It was Johnny's idea, all right. There's something funny about the big peak out there and we want to take an extended look." "Mount Olympus," Pegleg explained gravely. "The gods are holding high carnival behind those clouds on the summit. We want to crash the party." Lindy looked amused. Whatever she is, she's not a simple person. "Won't that be a mite risky? I seem to remember that mortals in the past have never been the same after going up into those clouds." "They didn't have scoutboats or lasers. or dissipators," Pegleg said. "I think we can get a hearing. Never forget that everything we do is a first, anyhow." "Oh, good," Lindy said. "I've always wanted to interview Aphrodite. For the benefit of the uninformed among us, she is the goddess of love." Pegleg looked outraged. "I know, I know." "Maybe," Lindy added reflectively, "I can find out what she's got that I haven't got." "I can answer that," I said. "Nothing." Pegleg shrugged. "You should know," he said. Now all this may sound sharp, brittle, even on the edge of silly to you. It wasn't. Behind the nonsense good friends and co-workers were simply catching up on the news. It's just that you probably don't do it that way.  quarters when finally the intercom awoke again. "Dr. Rasmussen's communique, official." Stony Price reporting. We talk to Stony all the time, but we rarely see him. Usually he's just a cheerful, irreverent voice. "Olympus Two is compatible. Atmosphere at this altitude comparable to Earth sea-level normal. Life varied, but no evidence of thinking forms. Usual precautions against unknown aggressive or predacious entities. Seventy-two hours free reconnaissance, at the end of which time all major research heads will meet to structure the survey pattern. Whew!" Stony heaved a sigh. "All those big words. That is all." We had anticipated the procedure and were ready. As usual, my first reconnaissance would be simple. I would go out, take a good legstretching hike across that inviting tundra, adjust to the gravity, get used to the feel of alien air in my lungs. I would find an elevation that would give me the widest, most sweeping view and I would sit there, looking, orienting, soaking up this spectacular environment. And I would have a good feeling that such sights could be seen, probably in infinite variety, on many favored worlds throughout the galaxy, I would know a twinge of sadness, too, that on Earth they had almost disappeared. The personnel ports were activated and we went out past the guards onto the lichen-sheathed high plains that stretched away in all directions. Lindy was with me. She comes when she can. And after a series of Ultraspan stages everyone was eager for the feel of the substrate, of the solid planet that is, after all, our normal abode. We didn't bounce about. Gravity was somewhat greater than Earth normal and our feet felt heavy. We plodded along. Our lungs expanded with the good, oxygen-rich air. After a mile I was on my toes again. I've stretched my legs on a number of worlds. This one was superior, more majestic, than most. 'Do you think," Lindy panted, "that if I keep this up it will make a woman of me? Ease up, Roscoe. Don't forget, I'm one of God's gentler creatures." We finally stood on a high, round-topped knoll finished off with with scattered, smooth-worn boulders. I boosted Lindy to a comfortable seat. The world lay beneath us for miles. But great peaks towered high beyond the lowlands and over them all rose the vast massif of Mount Olympus, its upper reaches swathed in those strange clouds. It was beautiful and mind-stretching. O UR field glasses swept a wide panorama. Beside the glinting, featureless cylinder of the Stardust people moved like ants, spreading out oyer the terrain. Portals yawned as we watched and three scoutboats were spat from them like torpedoes. Probably meteorologists, geographers, mapping experts. Few people were actually doing much work. It was orientation time. Perhaps ten miles away a darting, zig-zagging speck was resolved by the glasses into Pegleg's jeep, obviously headed for a spectacular red wall that reared beyond. A tiny red dot out on a slope beyond the ship was Ursula Potts' red umbrella. On compatible worlds she forsakes her little studio and paints in the open, always shielded by that spot of color. We knew that her easel was up, her paraphernalia strewn about her and that she had begun a program that would occupy her every waking hour until lift-off. "Pff to the right, up high, coming down the wind, Roscoe -- " Lindy's restless binoculars had picked up the first motile life. I swung up my own glasses. "Typical," I said. "Big country, big Hying predator. Something to feed on whatever in turn eats the tundra vegetation. Could be a variety of plant eaters around -- they're probably hiding because so many of us are out." More of the soaring raptores IF appeared. In the shifting air currents and thermal chimneys of a bright afternoon they swung and glided high against the slopes of the peaks. None came close. We knew they were watching tbis strange invasion with the telescopic eyes such forms always have. That evolution here had proceded along Earthlike lines was less surprising to us than it would have been some years before. Although much of the life we have found has been unpredictably different, some patterns seem to recur again and again. spent an hour on our knoll, no one else near. We sat quietly and gradually small life came out all around us. Small rodentlike forms peered from rock piles and darted hastily from place to place through the bright tundra blowers. Minute insectlike creatures swarned. And what appeared to be a red dragonfly, three or four inches in wingspan, crouched on rocks with spread wings and twitching eyes or coursed low back and forth over the tundra, feeding. Ever and anon we transferred our attention to the big peak, to Mount Olympus. Its cloud-shrouded summit seemed to thrust through the sky above us. The highest "eagle" our glasses could show still soared far below those clouds. F rom the first I never had much doubt that those clouds were being manipulated. And that meant that this was not the primitive world it seemed. There was a technology here, perhaps elaborate, and a superior race or races of living things. I wasn't sure whether I was sorry or glad. I enjoy the contacts with alien minds -- but I love the primitive worlds, too. The earlier stages in the evolutionary sequence are my special concern. It is here, before any form has become aware, that ecosystems are most perfect. Their checks and balances operate with beautiful efficiency, an inevitability that enables populations to vary, to adjust, to progress. Here the pattern of evolution is most clear. "Pegleg will be disappointed," Lindy remarked as we strolled slowly back toward the ship. "A common occurrence," I said, "but why this time? This looks like the place where geologists go when they die. What more could he possibly want?" Lindy giggled. When another woman makes a sound like that you think it's silly. But any sound she makes is a part of Lindy. "He meant exactly what he said when he spoke of crashing Zeus's party. He intended to take a scout, use a dissipator on those clouds and expose the whole enigma to the public gaze. Now I imagine that Johnny will rule that he Can't do it." I saw her point. with the organization or the activities of aware forms. He'll have to prove that the swirling clouds are simply meteorological oddities, or agree that intellects are operating them. In which case he can only be a spectator. Pegl hates that." I turned back for another look at the Olympian nightcap and it was well I did. Things were happening. The characteristic rotation of the cloud mass had slowed to a crawl. I thought for a moment that it was beginning to break up, but matters were not that simple. Fleecy puffs were blowing out from the bands, floating gently for a few minutes, then slowly dissipating. There were dozens of them. They seemed random, but by now I knew that wasn't likely. "Patterned," Lindy said. "Meaningful to somebody -- or something. Could be anything from a calling up of the Home Guard to a call to prayer. I'U guess that it won't last long." It didn't. After a few minutes the cloud mass had speeded up again and no longer gave off the puffs. "End of message," I said. "Thirty. Over and out. Now all we have to do is to figure out whether or not we were the reasons for that. As if we didn't know." "Likely," Lindy agreed. "Still, the mechanism was operating before we got here. That may happen every day at this time. "Remotely controlled?" I suggested. "It would not be too probable that living things are actually up there. And if that's so, then somewhere we've got concentrations of intelligent life. I'm beginning to be challenged." "You may not like them," Lindy warned. "We're butting in as usual. They would be justified in resenting us. Sometimes we do forget that." "Still," I decided, "I'm favorably disposed so far. They keep a nice place here. Haven't messed it up. Air's good, water's pure, no unsightly artifacts. Smart people." Lindy's beautiful face reflected tolerant amusement. That's one of her secrets. She lets me know she appreciates me, no matter how corny I get. "You're chopping up your sentences like Ursula," she said. We both glanced down the long slope to the little red dot on the tundra. I'm sure we both had the same idea at the same time. "Speaking of whom," I said, "why don't we go down and see? She'll have an idea. Always does." "Stop it," Lindy ordered. "One person on the Stardust who talks like that is enough." N ot many people dare interrupt Ursula at work. She paints with a fierce concentration, seeing. I'm sure, not only what is before her, but meanings hidden from less sensitive mortals. And those meanings, too, appear in the sometimes strange, always comIF pelting oducts of her art. This uncanny second sight, plus Ursula's abrupt impatience with pedantry, has given rise to the witch rumor. But we are enlightened people. We know witches never existed -- I think. We knew she saw and heard us approach, but she gave no sign. 'She simply painted. Her fingers unerringly selected the brush she wanted from tlve collectionthrust handle-end first through the big bun on the back of her head. When she finished with the brush she thrust it back in at any angle. The loose sleeves of the old sweater she always wore, inside or out, hot planet or cold, flopped with her crisp, sure strokes. The easel was in sunlight. Ursula sat on her campstool just under the shadow of the big red umbrella. We watched for a few minutes, a practically unpardonable sin for most people. But we're special. Ursula had been with us, Lindy and Pegleg and me, at Armageddon on Cyrene IV. She knows that we know the lonely old woman behind that acid tongue and the strange pale eyes. She knows we're fond of her. Suddenly she decided to recognize our existence. She thrust the brush into her hair with finality and spun on her stool. "Out of a job, eh? A whole planet -- and nothing to do?" "You know better than that, Ursula," I said. "I'm always working. Up here." And I tapped my forehead. Ursula actually grinned. "Hard to prove." She made a sweeping gesture that included half the great mountain range. "What do you think, Roscoe?" "Good country," I said tentatively. "A variety of life forms, but probably no thinking beings. Pretty typical tundra, but on a grand scale, I like." Ursula sniffed. "Dodging the problems. What makes the clouds go around?" "Give me time," I protested. We've only been here three hours. Besides, I thought you'd know." "More complex than it looks." Ursula narrowed her strange eyes. "Feel more than we see. All I know -- so far." She indicated the painting on the easel. She hadn't even painted the big mountain. The canvas showed simply a stretch of tundra. Sometimes her paintings are vague, impressionistic, expressing mood rather than the actual substance of her subject. But this picture was not like thaf. It was scific, almost photographically detailed. Even the several kinds of lichens were easily distinguished. Three different small rodents peered from behind rocks. We had seen each of them up the slope. On a rock a red dragonfly sat, complete to the greenish iridescence of its huge eyes. In the upper corner of the painting, against the sky, soared one of the wide-winged eagles. Every fldwer was recognizable. My eyes pick up and my brain records such details automatically. There was only one creature on the canvas that I didn't recognize. Lindy pointed it out. "He's cute," she said. "Just Hke a coon, Roscoe." It really was. It was in the middle distance in the scene and only partially in sight, as though it peered over a little roll in the terrain. It didn't have a raccoon's mask, but the ears, the pointed muzzle, the alert black eyes, all reminded us of the little Earth mammal. In fact, Ursula's genius really showed in those bright eyes. They had a knowing look. The two forelimbs were visible. They ended in a raccoon's babylike hands. "We missed that fellow," I said. "Where did you see him, Ursula?" "Didn't," Ursula said. "Then why is he there?" "Don't know. Just seemed to belong there. Painted hinn in before I thought." "That's faking," I said. "Doubt it. Scene doesn't look right without him." It had happened before. In fact, it happened all the time. Ursula doesh't just see with her eyes. Call that eerie sixth sense what you will, Ursula has it. We had had enough experience, Lindy and I, to recognize what we were seeing. When we talked it over we agreed that, sooner or later, we would see that little animal in the flesh. AS IT happened, it was sooner. The following morning, in fact. And the creature was not out on the tundra. It was in a small cage brought in triumphantly by one of Jim Peters' young trappers. Like all of us, Jim has his own reconnaissance methods. And the live trap is his mainstay. When we establish a wilderness base, as now, an area near the spaceship pretty quickly becomes a menagerie. The zoologists set up shelters against sun and wind and cagefuls of all kinds of creatures accumulate. The rest of us learn simply by visiting Jim's zoo. Jim watches and analyzes and feeds while his teams of collectors range far and wide. By day and by night his strings and traps sample a region's life. One of Jim's most consistent visitors is always Lindy. I never saw the living thing she couldn't make friends with. It's a gift, as uncanny in its way as Ursula's weird awareness. If there's such a thing as an universal sociologist, Lindy qualifies. Everything trusts her. I don't try to understand it. I'm simply proud. "There he is, Roscoe." The plastip awnings and shelters were going up and the first rows of cages were being put into place. The coonlike creature sat in IF its wire enclosure, seeming to watch everything with brighteyed interest. Close-up, it was not as small as it had looked on Ursula's picture. I would have guessed it ran thirty, thirty-five pounds. Earth weight. On Olympus Two it was probably a bit. more. It looked us over thoroughly when we approached. It wasn't frightened, but it was never still. Its sharp nose twitched. Its restless black hands clasped and unclasped. It continually touched itself all over its furry gray-and-black body, sometimes using only a single finger, sometimes both hands together. Even its brushy tail moved constantly, forming a series of patterns on the ground as it sat. "Busy little fellow, isn't he?" My conversation was less than sparkling, but I felt I had to say something. "More than busy," Lindy said gravely. "Purposeful. All that twitching isn't just nervous temperament. There's a functional reason for it." "A good imagination is always helpful," I said, but I studied the creature carefully just the same. It doesn't do to discount Lindy's serious comments. And after a few minutes I admitted: "He looks like a thirdbase coach going through his routine to give the batter his sign. Are you saying he's trying to tell us something?" Lindy smiled. "I always knew all that baseball would come in handy in some remote future. That's just what he looks like. Watch." She went down on her shapely knees directly in front of the cage and began to make a series of random motions, holding up fingers, touching various parts of her body, shrugging, even winking in patterns." "You're handicapped," I pointed out. "You haven't got a bushy tail." "Quiet. Think positively. If a typewriter is missing a couple of letters, you can still read what it writes." My wife was behaving like a charming idiot. She worked out a simple routine and went througli it again and again. And she was getting results. The coon was fascinated. He stopped his own motions entirely and when Lindy paused he made a swift gesture, then put both black hands over his eyes. "No savvy," I said. "You're talking nonsense. That's plain as plain." "Maybe," Lindy said. "Let's prove it." When, after a moment, the coon went back to his endless touching and twitching, Lindy made his gesture and put her hands over her own eyes. It worked. The coon was baffled. That he recognized the signals was beyond doubt. And for the first time he simply sat and stared at us steadily. We could almost see him think.  the dust from her knees. "In a relatively brief time we have gathered some very significant data,' she, said. "Summarize, please." I grinned. It's a game we play. "Item," I began. "Pegleg definitely can't dissipate the clouds on Mount Olympus, because they are aftificially produced by aware beings." "Possible," Lindy said, "but still not proved. You can do better than that." "Item. Jim Peters has violated an International Space Council ruling by interfering with an aware species. At this very moment has one of its members incarcerated and in durance vile." "Quite likely," Lindy agreed. "So far no great harm has been done and he can be forgiven on grounds of ignorance. More?" "Item. Communication on this world is more visual than auditory, perhaps completely visual. And the cloud patterns on Mount Olympus and the monkey motions of this little varmint in the cage are both parts of an elaborate system of keeping up with the news around the world and the juicy doings of the neighbors. "Now -- I'm proud of you," Lindy said with satisfaction. "We're probably oversimplifying. but I do believe we've got the key, Roscoe. Let's go talk with Johnny." We were on our way, but we only got to the edge of the shelter. Two of the young trappers were just arriving, each with a cage -- and each cage held another coon. "Good hunting, pric," I said. "Where are you catching these fellows? I haven't even seen one free. What's their habitat?" "No idea. Dr. Kissinger. We haven't seen one either. These were in traps on the open tandra. No bait. They just walked in." "Knowing full well what they were walking into, I bet. What better way to get into our setup without attracting the wrong kind of attention?" Lindy was obviously pleased with herself. ' The big blond zoologist was puzzled. "Coons are always curious. Dr. Peterson," he explained. "They investigate. These little guys would naturally explore something new." Lindy shook her red curls. "This isn't Earth," she pointed out, "and no matter what they look like, those aren't coons. I'll bet you a chocolate ice-cream soda they're here because they want to be here." The men set down the cages. We all stood watching the composed, busy occupants. They were twitching, touching and wig-wagging at a great rate, undoubtedly talking us over. By now there was no doubt in my mind that they knew exactly what they were doing. IF "No bet, Dr. Peterson," Eric said after a moment. "Not even for a finger or two of that Tennessee bourbon you've got hoardki. You have information we don't." "We're guessing," I said. "But they're educated guesses. Put these two animals over there with the other one and watch." What followed was predictable. Tails twitched, eyes rolled, black fingers flew as apparently everybody talked at once. And when, after a few minutes, they got caught up with the news -- everybody stopped. Each animal retired to a corner of its cage, crouched into a comfortable ball and. sat watching, black eyes darting alertly. Lindy and I strolled out slowly and you may be sure they watched us go. At the shelter's edge Lindy turned, went through a swift series of motions with both hands and ended by sticking out her tongue. It was silly -- and a little uncanny, too -- to see all three animals make the same gesture, then cover their eyes with their hands. sistent, so he did exactly what I knew he would do. He had reserved a scoutboat and pilot "for geological reconnaissance along the Olympic Range" and, by his seniority, had grounded one set of cloud chasers. I heard them grumbling about it. But the request was legitimate and Pegleg never hogged equipment. Mount Olympus challenged him. And nothing does that to Pegleg and gets away with it. Not even a mountain. Especially not a mountain. And if this particular jumble of cliffs and pinnacles and obscur ing clouds was going to have secrets, Pegleg intended to find them out or know the reason why. The silvery silver of the scoutboat drifted slowly over me as I sat on a high prominence, doing the kind of research' I like to do best. Just sitting and looking. That way I don't disturb anything -- life goes on normally and my binoculars can pick up any activity from horizon to horizon. And in this spectacular setting that took in a lot of territory. My jumper sat nearby. "Any word for Zeus, Roscoe?Or for Aphrodite, maybe?" Pegleg spoke down the tight auditory cone that can be projected from a scoutboat. He sounded as if he were standing beside me. I thumbed my belt connnunicator "Witch. The cone is one-way. "Carry my regrets," I said. "Previous engagement and all that. Be careful, Pegleg." I knew he would be. Pegleg is ornery and pig-headed, but his sense of self-preservation is as highly developed as that of anybody I know. He had been careless only once -- and he would remember it forever. He had lost his leg oh that occasion -- it was bitten off smooth by a plesiosaur-type critter on a planet that's not among my pleasanter memories. His plastic leg works almost as well as the originalbut it is a reminder. The scoutboat picked up momentum and swept into a great wide ellipse around the lower reaches of the mountain of the gods. Pegleg was going to tiake a deliberate, leisurely look-see. But he would be able to move if he had to. A scoutboat can flash over the horizon in one blink of an eye. I watched him disappear behind the great bulk of the uplift. When he reappeared a few minutes later on the other side he had appreciably gained altitude. But eagles still looked down on the scoutboat. Almost casually it spiraled upward, loop after loop, and each time it reappeared it was closer to the slowly revolving bands of clouds. I could imagine what Pegleg was doing. The photographic record he was making would be careful and complete. When he reached the cloud belts he would use radar and infrared light. He wouldn't disturb the clouds. Dissipators were out -- verboten. We had cleared all that up in a long conference with Johnny Rasmussen. But there was no ruling against looking and Pegleg intended to look. Swathed in its forcefield, the scoutboat would sure Zeus in the eye if it got the chance. It seemed to me that the loud bands grew fluffier, thicker, and that they moved more deliberately, more naturally, as the scoutboat came nearer. Camouflage? Were they trying to pretend that they were normal clouds? From my vantage point the little ship was now so tiny that I had to put my glasses on full zoom to see it at all. The highest of the eagles was far below it. that way. Anyhow, he was on my side of the mountain when the scoutboat drifted against the highest cloudbank, nosed into it and disappeared. There was no agitation, no turmoil. The scoutboat was simply swallowed up. I saw no cause for alarm. Pegleg didn't need direct visibility. His radar was sensitive and good and he could throttle down to less than ten miles an hour if he had to. His forcefield would protect him. In point of fact, we've always had such overwhelming superiority over any and all life forms we've found that adventure, as far as hazard is concerned, is largely taken out. But there's no guarantee. Pegleg had lost his leg. So, in spite of myself, I found my palms wet as minute followed minute and the scoutboat did not emerge. Once in a while I forgot to breathe. I knew that the big telescopes in the Stardust were watching, that a finely tuned radar was on the scoutboat, continuing to "see" it in the obscuring clouds. The distance was too great for metabolic probes. IF but Pegleg had a setup on board the scoutboat that was monitoring automatically. If life existed behind the clouds on the peak he would pick it up. The next development wasn't much. Not very much. Just -- the clouds turned pink. I saw no evidence of violence, no indication of concentrated energy release. The cloudbelt into which the scoutboat vanished simply began to glow as if touched by a ray of sunlight. The color deepened until the whole band looked like a rosy coronet on the vast brow of the mountain. The band speeded up, emitted several series of pink puffs -- it seemed to oscillate, to expand and contract as it revolved. The sight was spectacular, but not awesome. There was no menace in it. And in the middle of the display the scoutboat darted into view again. Pegleg spiraled high, cut patterns above the loftiest clouds, above the hidden pinnacle. His behavior indicated neither annoyance nor anger. He was still just gathering data. And after a few sweeps the scoutboat pointed its nose at my lookout and began to grow steadily larger. It checked and drifted as it reached me. The whole reconnaissance had taken scarcely an hour. "Come on down the hill, Roscoe," Pegleg said. "We've got conferring to do. You'll be interested." "Will do." I spoke as though mountains that generated pink clouds were an everyday experience. But I set the jumper on a flat trajectory, fifty yards at a leap, and by the time the scoutboat was back in its cradle I was landing on my jumper platform, extruded high on the Stardust's metallic side. i away from the "raccoon" cages. Once her own reconnaissance pattern had been set up in the lab her assistants could do the work -- she had gravitated instantly to the isolated shelter Jim Peters had arranged for the coons. The animals were different. She had been learning how and, hopefully, why. She had watched them, bombarding them with body pats and wigwags, eye rolls and nose twitches. Since these had no meanings, the little animals were at first continually giving the "on't understand" signal. This very fact had reinforced her conviction that the creatures were intelligent, aware, and were indeed communicating with each other in a complicated, soundless sign language. After the conference I went searching for my wife and found her with the coons. She had recruited powerful assistance. Ursula had moved in from the tundra. Her red umbrella was set up beside the awning that sheltered the cages. But she wasn't painting. She had a sketch pad across her skinny knees and with a bit of charcoal made swift sketches, one after another, tearing them from the pad and dropping them. The ground around her was littered with them. Although Pegleg and I had news of our own, we stood by and watched while she and Lindy worked. There was evidently a pattern. They had something in mind. They ignored us while Lindy gathered up the sketches, sorted them, arranged them in sequences. I could see that each was only a few lines, but those lines cleverly indicated a coon giving a signal. No two were alike. When Lindy finished her sorting she faced the cages and began to hold up the sketches, one by one. One or two she used over and over. The little animals watched with round-eyed attention. There was no possible doubt that they knew exactly what she was trying to do. And when she finished all three of them suddenly threw themselves on the ground and rolled about, aimlessly kicking out with thefr little black feet and lashing their bushy tails. Their faces wore no expressions, but I think we all got it at once. Xhcy were laughing. "The pen of my aunt is on the elephant's back. Your signals are nonsense. They think you're funny," I said. "You told them a dirty joke," said Pegleg. "They're embarrassed. "In either case I couldn't care less," Lindy said with satisfaction. "I didn't expect meaningful communication. I just wanted to verify the fact of thought transfer. And I wanted them to know we know." "I imagine they already suspected that," I said. "So where do we go from here?" Ursula was sketching again, apparently from memory. But this time she used a paint brush. Under her skilled fingers a recognizable outline of the mountain grew, its crest swathed with bands of pink clouds, pink puffs blowing from them. She held it up for the coons to see. This means of communication must have been marvelous to them, those, lines and colors that looked like the thing itself. I still doubted that they handled equipment or tools themselves, although the small hands looked capable and versatile. They recognized the mountain, though. They grasped that we understood that the cloud patterns had meaning -- that they were artificially formed. The round eyes stared at the sketch briefly and then they showed a human trait -- they knew how to lie. They all made the swift motion of negation and covered their eyes with their hands. F or the second time in two days Ursula grinned -- an almost unprecedented occurrence. "Fibbing," she said. "Why?" askbd Pegleg. IF "No idea. Can guess, though. They're involved." "Something taboo about it," I suggested. "Could little varmints like these have a sense of the supernatural? Could they respond to orders from a mysterious source? Could they have a religion?" "Could it be they're being exploited? Are they being flimflammed? Same difference." Pegleg spoke from his own specialized point of view. He rarely lets us down. If he has a good word for something we're disappointed. Lindy winked at me. "Still there abideth in the world these three; suspicion, prejudice and cynicism. And the greatest of these is cynicism." Pegleg's narrow face showed no contrition. "You forget," he said. "I am in possession 'of very recent data. I've been up where the gods were supposed to be." He shook his head sadly. "The whole bit is a big fat double-cross. There ain't no gods up there." "Just unusual meteorological phenomena?" I prodded. I knew what he had found, of course. "Oh no. The clouds arc artificial, just as advertised. I analyzed a big sample. Mostly water vapor, as you'd suspect, but with some kind of stuff intermingled with it that makes a tough film. The chemists are playing with it. The clouds arc actually masses of tiny stable bubbles that break down very slowly. The pink was a pigment suspended among the bubbles. Very neat setup. Efficient and businesslike." "Had metabolic probes, didn't you? No life?" Ursula's strange eyes gleamed. Pegleg grinned. "Got your attention, did I? No life high up. Plenty farther down the mountain, but in variety -- as you'd expect. Nothing too predominant." He paused and studied the little animals in the cages. They were busily discussing us -- or so I presumed -- among themselves. "No, the clouds came from apertures in the central pinnacle, whole clusters of them. Stuffs probably piped up from far below. Engineering job. How the thing is done I can't imagine, but you can bet that it isn't by the likes of them. Ergo, they're being given the business." "Reasonable," I agreed, "but there's another side. What about the hypothesis that they're here to check us out? That they're doing the same thing here that you were doing up on the peak? They don't know how the Stardust functions cither -- but I'll give you odds they know what it is and what it does." "Until we learn their sign patterns we can't be sure," Pegleg said. "I'll grant, though, that beings that can lie are civilized. It's an infallible indication." " -- and the greatest of these is -- " Lindy didn't finish repeating her paraphrase. "Fll learn the signs. Since apparently they can't make sound we can't teach them speech. We'll have to go with their way of communicating." "At least it's peaceful," I observed. "Imagine a noiseless human race." "Even sex-linked. Wow -- noiseless males! DeHnitely an improvement,". Ursula grunted. That settled that. Pegleg and I left the ladies to their machinations. We knew when we had worn out our welcome. IV directive and supervisory personnel. Dr. Rasmussen requests the pleasure of your company at dinner, this date, black tie, appetizers at eighteen hundred hours. My advice -- take him up on it. You got to eat somewhere." Of all the announcements "he's called on to make I think Stony Price enjoys the chiefs dinner invitations best. And to my knowledge he's never yet read one straight. I had expected the dinner. One was due for several reasons. Periodically Johnny likes to see us at our best. To him that means trimmed, shaved and in dinner dress. He can envision no crime to compare with a poorly cut dinner jacket. He loves fine food, properly served, and feels that every civilized man should. He reserves his ultimate respect for a superior brandy. The above would justify the dinner, but Johnny's invitations always had an additional reason. This was rarely announced and there have been times when I never found, out what it was. Still, after you got past the starchy beginnings, the dinners were enjoyable in themselves. Nobody ever missed one. "Don't be surprised," Lindy said, "if the dinner conversation takes an ecumenical turn.' Pegleg, for one, is still not sure the gods don't exist." "He's sure they do," I said. "He simply suspects their motives. I do fear that he thinks they rate power and profit over salvation. But he's interested in how they operate." "Thus lumping them with all the religions he has known in the past." Lindy laughed. "Here, zip me. I'll exhale." It was a pleasure. I meshed the magnetic fastenings up her shapely back, enclosing her in a softly glowing white sheath that fitted only a little less perfectly than her skin. Blue slippers were on her feet, a blue orchid at her left shoulder, long blue pendants swung from her earlobes and her green eyes looked from under shadowed upper lids. Atop her regal head the red curls were piled in a spectacular coiffure that is always, somehow, uniquely fitting. IF No woman will ever be like my woman. "I hope," I said, "that Johnny hasn't seated you across from me. I'll forget to eat." "Then for your sake," Lindy said gravely, "I hope so, too. You certainly need your food." If ever solicitude was suspect, that was. You know what I look like. Thick-armed, thick-legged, barrel-chested, all visible areas covered with black hair except my face and the top of my head. Even above the dinner jacket Johnny requires, my rudely cut features look harsh, out of place. But a man can't help how he appears. He can only hope that somewhere there's a woman who can see past such things. There I've been lucky. Miss Potts, Dr. Kissinger, Dr. Peterson -- " Johnny Rasmussen stood behind his chair at the head of the long curving table, tall, immaculate, elegant, and pronounced our names with evident relish. He finished and said, "I am delighted to have you here this evening. Won't you please be seated?" It was routine, formula. We could have chanted it with Kim. The only thing that changed was the seating. Johnny arranged that, always to suit some devious purpose of his own. Sometimes I could figure it out. Just as often, not. Chairs scraped and the conversational hum began to build. Johnny had put Pegleg on his right, a thing he would do only because he needed him for some reason. Pegleg's caustic conversation was incompatible with the genteel small talk behind which the chief masked his thoughts and gathered his information. But the two of them chatting like old buddies as the soup came and empty bowls went. A hearty tossed green salad, grown in the Stardusts own hydroponic rooms, appeared and was sampled. And finally the entree. That, too, was homegrown. Crab imperial. Honest. On Earth the Chesapeake Blue Crab is no more -- its ancestral home is a cesspool of industrial wastes. But in the growing section of our space home, in three carefully managed tanks, Callinectes sapidus goes through its life cycle just as it has since it evolved and provides, from time to time, a succulent harvest for special events such as these. I divided my attention between Lindy and Ursula Potts. Ursula's dinner dress was an unrelieved gunmetal gray and her bun, neat for once, seemed almost to blend into its prim high collar. She wore a massive emerald on her right forefinger -- an emerald not of Earth-and her favorite necklace of polished scarlet seeds from some planet we had visited. She was small and scrawny, but she matched me bite for bite. She scooped it in like a lumbeijack. "Pegl's in the catbird seat tonight," I remarked. "Any idea why?" Ursula's strange eyes flicked. "Johnny's picking his brains," she said. "Good at it, too. Would have to be, with Peglcg." "But why here? He could get what he needs from Peglcg's report." Ursula's thin lips savored a forkful of crab. "Not looking for what he remernbers. Looking for what wouldn't go into  report. Intangibles." I nodded as I scraped my crab shells. They had served me two, but I could have done with one more. "The gods began as a joke. I guess they're not anymore. Somewhere under the mountain old Zeus, no matter what his form, does hold court. It took know-how to pipe the inside of a fortythousand-foot peak. And why? For whom are the messages?" "Johnny's questions, too, I think. That's why we're getting rare food tonight. Reminding us of the general emphasis. Whatever else we do, look for Zeus." "You think he'll make an announcement?" Ursula shook her head. "Won't say a word. We're supposed to have brains. Put two and two together." I knew she was right. That wasthe way Johnny operated. He wouldn't tell us what to do. He would expect us to know. And somehow we always did. I turned to my other dinner companion. We were holding hands under the table. "You're looking nice tonight," I remarked. "What can you tell us about Zeus?" "I expect to see him," Lindy said. She surveyed my plate. "I didn't take your appetite after all." My smile is not a handsome production, but Lindy likes it. "Even left-handed," I said, "a man must keep up his strength." It was a goxl evening. After the coffee and just a dash of a pale golden brandy some of us adjourned to the big main lounge and sat and yarned until the unfamiliar patterns of stars on the viewscreens began to dim with the approach of morning. Without saying it, everyone was agreed. The unifying objective of this look-see had crystallized. It was -- the identity and the nature of the gods on Mount Olympus. R andom reconnaissance was over. The scoutboats were scheduled for days in advance as research units prowled up and down the mighty range for thousands of miles. Jumper teams fanned out, some probing deep into the valleys and canyons among the peaks, others working their way down through the vast forests into the dense and soggy atmosphere of lower elevations. IF I stayed nearby. It wasn't that I didn't want to go anywhere. I felt that I was already somewhere -- that here on the shoulder of the big peak was where the action was likely to be. For nowhere was there evidence of advanced technology, no sign of beings that might be aware. None, that is, except the three little coons in their cages. And three seemed to be all there were going to be. No more were caught. By now, though, I knew they were common. Fleeting glimpses were reported by various Held teams. I had caught brief views myself. In every case the animal had vanished quickly, presumably underground, but there were no evidences of burrows. Not, that is, until I figured it out. They were watching us. I was sure of that. And whenever I sat and surveyed and made notes I looked, for them with the same casual air that I've found to work so well with other life forms. When one finally showed himself I knew exactly what to do. He disappeared the minute I moved. I knew he would. I went directly to the spot where I had last sen him, raised the stone behind which he had vanished. It belied its solid, half-buried appearance. It was pumice light and under it was the burrow entrance. I did. nothing about it. The tunnel angled sharply away from the opening and I was not so naive as to think that the little beast was trapped. That tunnel led into a maze under the tundra. Somehow I knew it was so. I didn't even report my find. I could see no point in having scores of people prowling the tundra, tipping over stones, setting traps at burrow entrances and otherwise alerting the odd little creatures that we knew where they were. For thby were aware. They thought. They comprehended. How extensively, how deeply, I didn't know. But Lindy had learned many symbols of their sign language. She could greet them, ask them simple questions. They could return the greeting, evade the questions and ask others of their own. Lindy was working hard. She was convinced that they were complex, even wise. Ursula took me farther. She had returned to the tundra and day after day her red umbrella marked her location as she painted tirelessly. Not always was her subject before her as she worked. And one day she beckoned to me as I passed her at a distance. I strolled over. "What do you think, Roscoe?" Ursula had asked me that a hundred times. She never specified what about, but usually it was easy enough to figure. This time it was the painting. Here was no view of the spectacular range she faced, no meticulous, detailed drawing of the nearby tundra. Ursula's picture abounded in blues and shadowy patches of color, oranges and reds and rainbow streamers trailing and radiating from them. It was vague, impressionistic, yet as I studied it it took form and I recognized what it had to be -- a vast cavern, illuminated from glowing sources suspended high, with great dim arches that seemed to lead on into other caverns -- an impression of immensity that only a great artist could give. Nothing was actually recognizable -- or so I thought until I came close again and studied the canvas carefully. Tiny figures were on the cavern floors, hints of the same figures on irregularities of the cavern walls, creatures infinitesimally small compared to the spreading, vaulting spaciousness of the cavern. Raccoons! Most were simply tiny, vaguely familiar smudges, but a few were painted in exquisite detail. Once again I was impressed by the eerie sixth sense that made Ursula unique. She hadn't painted the range -- somehow she had looked into that mighty uplift. And what she had painted made no sense, geologically. But at the same time, it fitted. "The surface rocks of these mountains are granitic, Ursula," I said. "Rhyolites and basalts lie under them. No sediments. There couldn't be a cavern system under there." Ursula shrugged. "Feel it," she said. "Got to be. Don't know why." "It would explain a lot," I admitted. "The hollow pinnacle of Olympus. No coons above ground. I know they're subterranean. I've found burrows. But how would they live? What would they eat? And don't tell me those little varmints send the cloud signals from the big peak." Ursula's strange eyes gleamed. "Not telling you anything. Don't know." She never looked more like a witch. "Your job," she said. I shrugged in my turn. "Well," I said, "it beats just hanging around the house." M atters were finally beginning to move, though. I formed hypotheses, modified them, discarded them. Jim Peters' trappers had discovered the burrows capped with rocks strangely like the native granite and yet so light they could be tipped over with a finger. As I expected, they set traps everywhere. Much good it did them. They caught nothing. The coons knew that we were on to them. Then, overnight, twa . things happened. Lindy went out for her morning signaling session with the three little coons and found the cages empty, the doors unlatched and swinging. And Pegleg disappeared. IF The first I had expected. There was not much doubt that the coons had been staying around for what they could learn. Jim Peters had admitted as much, but he hadn't believed they could handle his magnetic locks. He had thought they had outsmarted themselves by letting themselves be caged. He had been complacent -- now he was both amused and annoyed when he found how neatly he had been gulled. "I'm slipping, Roscoe," he told me. "Can't analyze a situation like I used to. Getting old." I'd have guessed Jim at about thirty-five. We don't wave our ages about. In space they're pretty meaningless anyhow. "Why -- " he scratched his unkempt, sandy hair -- "it used-to take an expert to fool me. Now look." I consoled him. "They're experts. A neat little variant of the Trojan Horse gambit -- they took advantage of the fact that we probably wouldn't believe their full capabilities. They were so right that now we've got to reassess the whole situation. How capable are they? What kinds of information were they able to acquire just sitting in those cages and watching?" "And what will they be able to do with it now they've got it? They may not be taking kindly to unannounced visitors. There's no doubt that we've upset the pattern of their living simply by being here. Though I suppose that always happens." "It hinges on the gods," I decided. "The ruling intelligence, the guiding spirit of this part of the planet, is centered on the big peak, on old Olympus up there. Those little varmints may isimply be handy adjuncts to the establishment. On the other hand, they may run the place." "There are plenty of them," Jim said. "I suppose you know about the burrows." "There's more to it than that," I said and told him about Ursula's picture. "Things are picking up," the zoologist said happily. "If there is a cavern system we'll find it. Always something new." "I can sec you now," I said, "working your way into a nether world through a twisting cooii burrow one foot in diameter. It'll be the high spot of your career." "Low spot," Jim corrected. "I'll do what I have to do." And that at least was a serious statement. Pegleg wasn't missed until evening and even then we knew little concern. His work habits are unconventional. He usually goes alone; he drives that jeq into places no sane, practical-minded field man would even consider driving. He can change from wheels to tracks at need and the timonium pill he uses for power is good for a unit can sheathe the vehicle in a shield that will foil any primitive, raw power. So when he turned up missing we didn't worry, t had happened before. Still, a day and a half without communication was a long time even for Pegl. When we reached that stage Johnny Rasmussen set in motion what we called the Misplaced Personnel pattern. Every scoutboat that went out was on search alert, watching for the jeep and with radio channels opein for every wavelength possible to the jeep communicator. Stony Price winnowed the high frequencies for unusual sound. Every field unit was notified. Rasmussen quizzed me. He thought that I would know what Pegleg had had in mind if anybody would. As it happened, I didn't. I hadn't even seen him go out. But I remembered something. The previous evening, almost at dusl, there . had been unusual activity of the clouds on Mount Olympus. They had grown black like thund'erheadswirling sullenly as if in anger. The clouds were changii all the time, but this was different. Johnny Rasmussen agreed. "It could be the key," he said. "Up to now it would have been interesting to find out about the gods. Now I think we must." You know how I felt. Pegleg was my oldest friend, my fleld companion on dozens of worlds. From me he needed a special kind of help. There would be searchers in plenty, but I knew best how he thought, what motivated him, what made him tick. My job was to think -- in addition to all those pretty rocks, what else had he had in mind? I reasoned that he had offended the gods. He had invaded the shrouded peak of the sacred mountain, had violated their holy of holies. So they had waited for him and when opportunity finally allowed, they had taken him. So I built my thinking -- a nice, reasonable, logical sequence. I was wrong. V F or a day our search patterns blanketed the range -- but it was a vast land to be lost in. The way Pegleg drove he could have dropped that jeep into any one of thousands of crevasses in hundreds of glaciers that flowed down the shoulders of peak' after peak. Any rubble slide in any canyon in all that seamed network could have covered him up forever. We knew that, but we didn't falter. We searched on. The clouds on Mount Olympus, were tranquil for that day, but then they changed. The next sunrise found them billowing, crowding into strangely shaped masses, shooting out colored pur's in complicated patterns. And the coons ban to appear. IF Until then we had caught only fleeting glimpses. Suddenly they were everywhere. A coon sat jauntily atop every rock. They darted here and there in the open spaces, sometimes even pausing to feed. I had speculated about that and watched the procedure with interest. I had been pretty sure that they ate a variety of things. Jim Peters had fed his captives a mixture of local organics and they had eaten most of it. Here, though, each feeding pattern was identical. A pink, lilylike plant a foot or so high sheeted wide stretches of tundra. Often it was the most abundant plant in view. The coons harvest it with a stylized procedure that never varied -- and it was soon evident why it was so abundant. The coons fed on the bulk from which the lily grew. They dug it out with practiced twists of their little black hands, nipped off the stem with glistening white teeth, then removed a purple berry from the top of the stalk where the flower had been. This fruit they planted in the hole they had dug. They covered it carefully. Then, and only then, they ate the bulb with relish. As you can imagine, I was torn. One of the mysteries of life on Olympus Two was uhfolding before my eyes -- but one of the Stardusts veteran researchers was lost, swallowed up in the impressive environment of these strange little beings. What should I do? I was high on my favorite slope and the coons swarmed around me, avoiding my boulder seat but otherwise ignoring me. I felt guilty, but I watched and made notes. I knew it was what Pegleg would have done -- what, perhaps, he was doing at that moment. For the coons were out as far as I could see the tundra. Ursula's painting had prepared me a little, but .the numbers were incredible. My belt communicator rasped and sputtered. "Dr. Kissinger." It was Stony Price. "Dr. Rasmussen calling Dr. Kissinger. Come in, Roscoe." I thumbed my transmission button. "Roscoe here. Stony." "Thank you, Mr. Price." Johnny Rasmussen's calm, genteel voice. "We've got news of Pegleg, Roscoe. George Wildcat trailed the jeep by jumper and he found -- but let him tell you. Could you patch him in, Mr. Price?" More rattling and rasping. Then, "Wildcat here. Dr Kissinger." The soft voice was as unemotional as the chiefs had been. "Tell, Wildcat," I urged. "An interesting trail. Dr. Kissinger," Wildcat said gently. "I am about a hundred and eighty miles southwest of the Stardust -- in a deep box canyon between the fourth and fifth peaks south of came here. I now have great admiration for that jeep. You would not believe the route he topk," "I'd believe it," I said. "Where's Pegl now?" Wildcat hesitated. "There is a large cavern opening in the nd of the canyon. Apparently he drove in. I tried my jumper communicator at the cavern mouth, but got no response from the jeep. Welt protected search teams seem indicated." "How can we get there?" "A scoutboat seems best. At least you can reconnoiter from the air and then bring in jumper teams if you think it wise. I can give you coordinates and stand by to beam you in." "Right. How about the coon population there?"  "They are everywhere. They are coming out of the cavern in droves. But they don't seem interested in me. They ignore me. "All same here. This is a very big deal, probably not related to Pegleg at all." "It is related to the cloud signals on Mount Olympus," Wildcat stated. "Notice that they're changing as we talk." He paused a minute. "Have you eagles?" I had noticed them gathering, but they were soaring high. Now I realized that they were beginning to plane lower -- and that there were thousands of them. "We've got eagles," I said, "and they're coming down." I N A matter of minutes the great birds were swooping all around me. The swish and whistle of the wide-pinioned wings must have made a roar in my microphone -- I could also hear them in my speaker. One hundred and eighty miles away the same thing was evidently going on. And at the end of each dive was a coon. Actually the eagles' hunting wasn't that easy. The coons leaped, dodged, swayed out of the way of the reaching talons with a facility, a cool competence that indicate practice. They had expected this and the birds often missed. But many a bird soared up again with a limp furry form clutched in its long claws. The slow, the dull, the unskilled, the unlucky -- these were being pruned out fast. My sulKonscious was automatically recording and interpreting all this, while my conscious mind was rejecting it. A deliberately planned survival ritual, executed by the numbers on orders broadcast by cloud patterns on a giant mountain peak -- it seemed impossible. But somehow I knew it was so. The tundra was honeycombed with burrows capped by rocks that the coons could move with ease. Safety was only a few leaps away. But not one attempted to leave the action. They stayed, trusting to the speed and agility of their own muscles, pitting their alertness and timing against the fearsome swoops of the huge birds. As a precaution I stepped into my jumper frame and activated the IF forcefield. But it wasn't needed. The birds avoided me. The coons used me, dodging around me as though I were a rock. And after a few minutes the rain of swooping, diving eagles thinned, until only an occasional one threatened the still teeming numbers of coons. These last birds, I suspected were themselves young and inexperienced, still honing their foodgetting skills. The whole mighty spectacle, as I viewed it, was one of grim practicality. But I had never seen anything like it. As Pegleg was wont to say, most of the experiences we have seem to be firsts. At the thought of Pegleg I again remembered my purring communications speaker. Our three-way patch was still open, but for minutes we had been speechless. "Still there. Wildcat?" "Still here. Dr. Kissinger. Fm sure we've seen the ame thing. May I come to hear you discuss it at the next convened report? I have some questions." I grinned a little wryly. "So have I, George. This is a situation where there are no experts. Give me your coordinates. Fll be over you in half an hour. Will you order me a scoutboat, Johnny?" "It's done," the chief said. "Waiting for you." It would take more than a swarming of coons and an invasion of eagles to disconcert Johnny Rasmussen. boat pilot and more than pleased with my crew. Young Pete Watts grinned at me from behind his instrument panels as I came aboard. He knows how I work. The second researcher's seat was also rather #I filled by Lindy. She was dressed for the field, equipped with zoom binoculars, magnaflash and laser gun swinging from her belt. "I'm your best bet," she informed me. "The coons arc involved in this and I can communicate with them. You're lucky to have me." "You're always my best bet," I said. "Take her out, Pete. Lock on Wildcat's beam and follow the bouncing ball." "Roger, Dr. Kissinger." Pete was a researcher's dream pilot. In the field he never asked why. The scoutboat spiraled, picked up the tracker's weak signal and flashed toward it. In moments great cliffs loomed high. Skillfully Pete wove the ship among them, cutting down sp for better viewing. We were in a long canyon, maybe no more than a mile across, a rugged gash in the immensity of the range. Its floor was broken, scarred, boulder-strewn. I couldn't imagine trying to tool a vehicle over that rugged terrain -- but, knowing Pegleg, I could easily picture him doing it, switching from tracks to wheels to tracks again as the situation changed. What he had been looking for was anybody's guess. But he had stumbled on something. Pegleg did nothing at random. "Cut it down, Pete," I directed. "Slow cruise. We may as well glean all we can." , The scoutboat drifted, loafing along a few hundred feet above the rocky bottom of the canyon. Wildcat's signal csTme ever stronger. "Look, Roscoe -- the eagles." Lindy's binoculars swept the seamed and shattered canyon walls. Pinnacles jutted everywhere and atop practically every one a great bird sat and tore at the furry body beneath its talons. It was dinnertime in eagle land. Only a few still soared and searched, but to no avail now. The coons were gone. I punched a communicator button and cut into Wildcat's signal. "Can you hear me. Wildcat? We're coming in. What happened to the coons?" "Got you. Dr. Kissinger. The clouds on the peak changed color and the coons vanished. Just popped out of sight. The party's over." "Until next time," I agreed. "Watch for us." The canyon ended ahead. A vast dark wall, thousands of feet high, lay across it, boxing it in. Sunlight flickered on the immense stretches of rock, but the impression was one of gloom, of coldness, of shadow. And we could see the huge opening, high as a four-story building, long before we picked out the tiny form of the tracker in the jumble of rocks below. Pete cut speed until the scoutboat barely had headway. I suppose my subconscious had decided, long before I consciously admitted what I intended to do. To crystallize and bring the decision to the surface required the sight of the great arching entryway. I remembered Ursula's painting. The caverns were in chains, indescribably large. Unless they held energies I could not now envision a scoutboat should be able to cruise them. My pilot knew what came next. He swung our little ship low over where Wildcat sat, then drifted in a tight circle at slowest speed. I activated the auditory cone. "This may be news to my crew, George, but we're going to take the scoutboat into that hole. Can you think of any reason we shouldn't?" "Just ordinary common sense. Dr. Kissinger. I'd hate to do it. There are probably controlled energies in there and there's no way to assess them. I went in a few hundred feet and lost all communication. They let me keep my magnaflash." "They?" "The coons. That's their country in there. And they're sharp. I wouldn't be surprised if they could neutralize your motive power." George Wildcat's ancestry was IF Mandan Sioux. He was Jim Peters' ace tracker. Give him a wilderness and a dim spoor and he was a happy young man. The planet didn't matter. And he could read from any situation far more than he could see. "Any installations? Any artifacts? Anything they may have made?" I figured he must have something tangible on which to base so positive an attitude. "Negative. Like Miss Potts says, I just felt it. I came out because I thought my first duty was to report. Since then I've been under orders." "No criticism, George. You did exactly right. Notify the Stardust and keep your position to relay us if we can't communicate directly with the ship. I'm going to bet that their energies can't solve our forcefield." I could hear wildcat's faint sigh. "I thought you would," he said. but also quizzical. He had taken me on some strange rides. He could make a scoutboat do anything it was built to do and put it through paces the designers had never imagined. This trip, I supposed, would be in that last category. "Take her in, Pete. Activate bumper rays outside the forcefield -- and go slowly. We want to see the sights." A scoutboat is about forty feet long, eight feet wide. In space it looks like a featureless metallic silver, pointed at both ends. Its timonium drive can flash it through planetary atmospheres at speeds great enough to make it glow, or it can drift with scarcely perceptible headway. But it cannot hover and it cannot take off from any location except its slip in the Stardust. Hence it cannot land. These were not limitations. They were advantages in every situation in which scoutboats had ever been used. But it was unlikely that anyone had ever used one underground. We slipped through the huge opening. The light of the sun faded and there were no sights to see. Stygian blackness swallowed us. Pete activated dim lights. The scoutboat floated slowly forward. Dark craggy walls showed ahead, but athwart our direction the blackness was unbroken. "Up the range, Pete. Toward Mount Olympus. I'm betting that the chain of caverns is continuous and somewhere ahead old Zeus is waiting for us." The scoutboat swerved, then rocked gently as the bumper rays fended it from the wall. But it never lost headway. Pete eased it onward steadily, its radar keeping it positioned halfway between the dimly revealed floor of the cavern and the vaulting ceiling above. We seemed suspended in black nothingness, going nowhere. "Any reason for not using magnaflash. Dr. Kissinger? We may be missing some of those sights you wanted to see. Radar wall patterns are pretty irregular." "We'll take a quick look," I decided, "then switch 'em off again. Don't want to overawe them, you know. Although I've got an idea they could light up this whole area if they wanted." Actually, it wasn't my idea. It was memory. I was recalling Ursula's mystic, murky picture, with the flaring yellow and orange spots high in the vaulted upper reaches of the barely recognizable chain of caverns. Well, here were the caverns. Where was the rest? The wide cone of pure white light, brighter than day, lanced ahead of us. The scoutboat cruised slowly. We were moving into a huge vaulted amphitheater perhaps a mile wide, a dozen miles long. At its farther end there was a great tunnel-like exit, many times larger than the opening through which we entered the system. The sheer scale of the caverns changed my mind about the use of light. "Keep the big beam on, Pete," I directed. "Better activate analytical systems, too. Air composition, air currents, temperature fluctuations -- the works. This a world within a world. A nation, a race of beings lives here. Let's know all we can about it. Because sooner or later we're going to be asked to show our ticket stubs." "Piloting a scoutboat through the inside of a mountain range ought to take about all of a man's attention," Lindy said. "I'll do the analyses. Dr. Kissinger. I'm rather used to that sort of thing." "Thank you. Dr. Peterson," I said gravely. "That will free me to watch." "And what would you be watching for -- specifically?" "A small, anachronistic. Earthtype vehicle, my sweet." Suddenly I was sober. "A jeep, I believe it's called." Just for a moment Lihdy's sympathetic grin flashed. Then she was in the technicians seat forward, playing the complicated analytical console with practiced fingers and reading half a dozen stories from the flickering light banks. The scoutboat drove on -- and I watched. neath us gained character. What was at first a blurred jumble began to sort itself out. That was living space down there and gradually the details appeared. A key factor to everything we could see was evidently the light source that had been turned out. For this was not just a rocky world, though broken masses and piles of stony rubble predominated. My probing spotlight revealed these as multicolored, with such green, and the zoom binoculars showed lichenlike growth, lush and crisp, punctuated by clinging clusters of mushIF roomlike fungi in orange and scarlet and a whole range of blues. The light winked on small streams, "Of course," I said aloud for the record. "The food base. The producers. They use the upper world, the planet's surface, but they don't depend on it. The food chains start here, powered at second hand by artificial light that can be controlled." The strangeness of our situation gradually faded as the familiar, basic patterns of the ecosystem began to emerge. They sometimes took odd forms, alien sequences, but in the last analysis they showed the same framing. I began to feel comfortable again. This was my lifelong concern. Only the details were different. "A plant cover, varied," I announced. "What's the weather out there like. Dr. Peterson?" "Temperate," Lindy intoned. "Rather high humidity, but good air circulation. Should be fresh and invigorating. Temperature seventyone degrees Fahrenheit. And no sunshine at all." "Are you sure?" For as she spoke the vast cavern suddenly was flooded with yellow light. The details I had been observing piecemeal were spread out below, a strange, sunlit, enclosed landscape. And the very sun itself seemed to hang high in the vaulted upper reaches of this buried world." "I don't know when I've seen a quicker sunrise," Lindy murmured. She pushed buttons, coaxed more data from the humming console. "No hard radiation, Roscoe. Light almost the same quality as sunlight. A bit more red." She studied the light readout for a moment longer, then leaned back in her chair. "I'm gladI came," she announced. "We are now transient visitants in the galaxy's greatest controlled-environment chamber. That sun is a hydrogen ball, confined, activated and paced in some ungodly fashion I'll never have sense enough to understand." slipping along beneath us. For some minutes I had been aware that the small stone piles scattered at random among the lichen-clad slides were too uniform, too precise to be natural. The zoom binoculars confirmed this. They looked like little stone igloos. I'd have guessed their origins anyhow, but close-ups left no doubt. Many had openings and bright-eyed little coons peered from them. I pointed them out. "Farm houses," I said. "Complete with peasants," Lindy agreed. "They're predictable. But those little creatures aren't probing our forcefield. They can't turn the sun off and on." "I think I agree," I said. "Still, something can -- and I'd be a mite easier in my mind if I knew what." "Let's find out," my wife said. "You know and I know that the answer is up ahead. That's where the jeep is -- and Pegleg." "The gods?" "The gods. And I still would like to have that little chat with Aphrodite." "You shall, my pet," I said. "By the nine gods I swear it. Take her along, Pete. Were betting that the caverns are continuous all the way to Mount Olympus and that the scoutboat can take us through. Be careful of intersections and Uturns, otherwise use your own judgment." The pilot gave me a swift look and settled himself in his chair. "Roger, Dr. Kissinger," he said happily. "I'll try to get you there in time for dinner. We wouldn't want the nectar and ambrosia to get cold." I should have known better. But the next instant it was too late. The cavern walls were blurring, the scoutboat tilting and weaving and darting, and the cavern suns were flashing past like streetlamps along a village street. I would have lost face to have ordered a cut in speed -- but I'll never forget that ride. I knew that the computer-pilot was plotting the course, altering it each microsecond as the radar fed in data. No human reaction time could possibly have been fast enough. But it was Pete who determined the speed and even in space he loved to move. What it was like in that linked netherworld of tunnels and caverns I leave you to imagine. I do remember wondering fleetingly how I'd look with my hair all gray. Still, we got through. The scoutboat was slowing almost before my apprehensions were sorted out and justified. "Complications up ahead. Dr. Kissinger," Pete reported. "Have to cut down a little. Sorry." . I ignored Lindy's slightly strained grin. "I forgive you, Pete," I said. "It may even be more dignified to approach heaven slowly." I look forward into the space we were just entering. "I see what you mean by complications." VI many caverns, some of them extensive. Most of them had doubtless had installations of varying complexity, but of course we had not truly seen them. What lay ahead we could see and it was impressive. This enclosure was not large compared to some we had traversed. It was perhaps three or four miles long, and half as wide. Two orange suns glowed a halfmile up. The effect was like a summer noon on Earth. Here was no hint of the rural, the pastoral feel of the earlier caves. This one was structured, complex, used. Several features struck the eye. One was the forest of pylons, IF slender metallic cylinders extending upward from heights of a few feet to perhaps a couple of hundred. They occurred in clusters, strung out in lines, or in random isolation here and there all the way to the distant walls. They seemed to sprout from the rocky substrate, connected to nothing and there was no clue to their purpose. But their nature was soon apparent. "Energy pylons. Dr. Kissinger," Pete reported. "My meters are jumping. Every one of those things is hot." "Are they focusing on us? Is the forcefield under stress?" The pilot shook his head. We were now barely drifting and I noticed that we were swinging wide to avoid the higher cylinders. "Negative on both counts. Everything is normal. But the potential is there. Somehow each cylinder is a transmission device. Whether any of them could cause us any grief -- no way to tell. No data." "We still do it, don't we?" Lindy looked up from her console. "The old Earth attitude. The human point of view. Why should they want to cause us grief? Maybe it's no part of their thinking at all. Perhaps we're simply objects of wonder to be explain, not destroyed." "Every ecosystem is based on strife," I pointed out. "Every living thing in a natural system has competed successfully. Otherwise it's dead. That's an advanced setup down there. It didn't get that way without effective defences. It may shoot first and investigate afterward." "Since it hasn't maybe it won't," Lindy said. "Incidentally, there's still no hard radiation with the light and the air is sweet and good. Even the humidity is no higher in spite of all the steam pits." Steam lakes or steam ponds would have been more accurate. They dotted the cavern floor and condensation mists rose from them, drifting and dissipating in the air. Some had multicolored deposits built up along their edges. Water ran from them in wide, glistening sheets. Fumaroles puffed and blew. A steaming jet of water topped with a cloud plume climbed to medium pylon height for several minutes as we watched, then slowly subsided. I swept the area with my everuseful zooms, while Pete drifted the scoutboat slowly in random patterns back and forth. He knew me. He was waiting for orders. "I'm beginning to understand," I said finally. "Hydrothermal energy. Plenty of it. A subterranean geyser basin. Probably been here for eons. Somehow they've learned to convert it, to harness it. They've built a culture around it. All the rest is detail." "So we're back to they," Lindy said. "Who arc theyl" I grinned at her. "The gods," i said. "The gods of Mount Olympus. I would suspect that we're under their mountain. Confirm, Pete?" "Confirm, Dr. Kissinger," the pilot said. "Or in the neighborhood, at least. We've come the right distance in the right direction. I'd say this is it." The complex of installations below also seemed to confirm it. Not that it looked like any industrial arrangement we had ever envisioned or experienced. But there were piled clusters of rock structures built against the cavern wall in one location, a random-appearing jumble that stretched along the wall for several hundred yards. And it swarmed with coons. "Drop us in, Pete," I directed. "Slowly. Let them see us at close range. Then it'll be their move." "I think it's already ours." Lindy's glasses were sweeping the strange artifacts. "Look, Roscoe. Halfway along the building complex -- beside the tallest pylon." It was Pegleg's jeep. T he scoutboat nosed down gently. It must have been a marvel to the thronging, brighteyed little creatures that darted in and out of the myraid openings of the building complex, lliere were literally acres of them. They made a seething, shifting pattern as we swept slowly over them at a height of forty feet or so. "No sign of Pleg?" I kept the anger out of my voice, but Lindy sensed it. "Take it easy, Roscoe," she soothed me. "He's probably guest of honor at that dinner we're late for. I can't feel hostility. Just interest and curiosity. They'll be delighted to set some plates for us." "They'll have their chance," I said shortly. "I'm going down. Swing out the ladder, Pete, and make a run at twenty feet. I'll drop off beside the jeep." The scoutboat turned in a tight circle and ban Its glide. The speed slowed almost to the pace of a walking man. The emergency hatch next to my seat slid back, the pliable ladder dropped through and I climbed down to swing free beneath the ship. It was a practiced gambit. We us it often. Coons scurried as I dropped from the ladder. I strode over and stood with my back against the jeep, hand on my laser, my eyes trying to take in the whole improbable situation. The coons surrounded me, row on row and rank on rank, bright eyes rolling, black hands flying, tails twitching. I could hear the shuffle of thousands of little feet, but otherwise they made no sounds at all. The gurgle of flowing water, the hiss and pop of the boiling springs, the splash of geysers -- these were the noises of this hidden world. I thumbed my communicator switch. IF up, Pegleg." I didn't expect an answer. But I got one. Promptly, too. My open receiver rasped and cleared its throat. Pegleg's voice came, understandable enough, but rather muffled and faint. Roscoe?" He didn't sound distressed and suddenly I felt good again. I hadn't realized how the tension had been building. "A better question is -- where are you? I'm in front of the biggest rockpile. Standing by the jeep. Direct me and I'll come get you." Pegleg's chuckle rattl the receiver. "You wouldn't get far. Heaven is a pretty complicated place. Hold tight and I'll try to come to you. I don't think they'll stop me from walking out. But they've taken my gun. So watch yours." "Roger. Leave your communicator open." The first ring of coons was ten feet away from me and they didn't seem disposed to come closer. But their restless fingers and twitching tails never stopped. Their motions seemed to have developed a rhythm -- then I realized that they were all going through the same patterns. They were all saying the same thing and in unison. They didn't seem unfriendly, but there was certainly no way to tell. I watched them for several minutes. The shadow of the scoutboat drifted across and for a moment all eyes were on it. Pete was staying close. If it came to that, he could lash that sea of furry bodies with savage, disintegrating energy. But what they might do in return was entirely problematical. The slender pylon behind me reached up for more than a hundred feet. So, as Pegleg advised, I held tight. The coons continued their swinging pattern, speeding it up, giving it a jive beat. The concept seemed ridiculous, but I think they were having fun. If they had not been voiceless I'm sure they would have been chanting. It could have been, Yah-yah, or it could have been. Welcome to our city, Lindy might have, known. I didn't. And after a bit it became irritating. I made the gesture remembered from the three little coons in Jim Peters' cages and briefly covered my eyes with my hands. T hat interested them. The soundless chant stopped. The front row surged forward a couple of feet, but I waved it back and put my hand on my gun. They understood all right. They had taken Pegleg's gun. I wondered briefly how they had managed that. The scoutboat came over again, drifting slowly, ladder trailing. Lindy swung ofT into the little circle. "Apologies, Roscoe. I know you didn't call me. But I hate to sit in. the grandstand when a game is going on. After all, you don't know what they're saying." Lindy's beautiful anytime, but never more so than when her interest is focused on a problem, especially a problem with living things. Then she glows. Any danger that might have been in this situation she simply ignored. "I'm waiting for Pegleg," I explained. "He's back in that rockpile somewhere, apparently. But he says he can come out." "I know. We heard. And meanwhile they're trying to tell you something and I might just be able to figure out what." She misted her green eyes at me. "You don't mind, do you Roscoe? Just you keep watch. I'll do the talking." I shrugged with mock resignation -- or maybe it wasn't entirely mock. "Don't you always? What's a wife for?" She was the focus of thousands of pairs of sly black eyes as she made motions, touched herself in patterns, even held a hand behind her to simulate a tail. And when she paused, the watchers erupted into a sea of motion. Everybody talked at once. It seemed a racial failing. She made the now familiar gesture and covered her eyes. The motions subsided. Then she pointed to one coon in the first row, beckoned him forward. He understood. He took a couple of steps into the circle and sat upright, his black hands folded on his chest. Lindy tried her signs again. She pointed at the jeep, swept an arm to indicate the complex of buildings, made a motion that even I could interpret. Where? Where was the man who drove the jeep? They knew, all right. The spokesman didn't have to answer that one. The sea of heads swiveled toward the rock structure opposite. I suppose it was the most imposing' of the complex, though they all looked pretty much alike to me. But it was by far the biggest, a multidomed jumble that reached forty or fifty feet up the cavern wall and had a frontage half a block long. The seat of a personage -- or personages. The spokesman graphically confirmed my surmise. He lay prone, his snout pressed into the dust, his hands clasped behind his head. A position of subservience, of submission. Authority lived in that rock pile. My communicator crackled. "I think I'm almost out, Roscoe." Pegleg's voice was clearer. "I'm not so good on these ladders. Anyhow, I have to proceed with dignity. I'm being escorted and I get the impression that it's quite an honor. Wait'll you see." "Roger," I said. "Waking." The openings in the rock dwellings, were all coon-sized. A man could scarcely have thrust his head into them. But the big house, the IF paUce or whatever it was, boasted a portal. It was easily five feet high, three feet wide, and into the wall around the opening were set sheets of glistening mica. Pegleg emerged from this imposing aperture, bending to clear it. Pegleg is six feet tall. He gave us a wave, then stood aside as his escort came slowly and with dignity into the light. We were a hundred feet away and I promptly swung up my binoculars. Qf the several possibilities that I had considered, I suppose I had given this one the least weight. For the escort was merely another coon. Correction. Not merely another coon. There couldn't have been another like him along that entire cavern chain, not on this whole great planet called Olympus Two. He was coal black. He was easily three times the size of any coon I had yet seen. He walked erect on plantigrade feet, striding deliberately, his facile hands gesturing. He was abundantly, blatantly male. They approached us slowly. Pegleg one step behind his host, a wide pathway opening as they advanced. The thousands of coons watched, but the waving, twitching conversation was stilled. Each made a single, one-handed gesture as the big coon passed, a gesture of respect... When they stood before us. Pegleg made the introduction with a wave of his hand. "Zeus," he said. litely, but what do you do when you're introduced to a god? Lindy adjusted first. She made the same motion the coons had made, the gesture of respect. I followed suit awkwardly. Pegleg watched us, grinning. "You're kidding, Pegleg," I said. "You know I'm not. These little varntints have built a culture around hydrothermal energy. They work metals, generate current, understand chemical reactions. How they do things I don't know -- I've bwn a sort of restricted guest in the Big Man's town house over there. I've eaten lily bulbs, lichens and a molded mound of stuff, not identified but savory, out of a polished stone dish. I've drunk cool water from a fountain. I've slept on a mat as soft as down and they pinched my gun while I napped. They knew well enough what it was." "How did you find the caverns? What clues did you have? Why didn't you let me know?" "It's a long story," Pegleg said. "Right now we'd better be giving due deference to his nibs there. Call him Yahweh, call him Zeus, call him anything you want, but he's the big black he-coon of this whole operation and don't you forget it." Lindy's cheeks were faintly pink. "We noticed," she said primly. Pegleg laugh aloud. "You should see his lady friends,' he said. He has at least a dozen. He had them all file past me and make polite motions." But he didn't faze Lindy. Nobody does. "Was, by any chance, Aphrodite among them?" she inquired sweetly. "I have unfinished business with her." "You know," Pegleg said, "she just might have been. There was one -- Oh, oh, what's bugging him?" Old Zeus had turned his back on us. He made a series of motions to the nearest coon, which made the gesture of respect and darted for the portal of the celestial Palace -- if that was what it was. The shadow of the scoutboat drifted across again. Zeus watched it carefully, almost reflectively. It was easy to see that he didn't quite know how much he might risk with us. But I sensed that he would be happy if we would just go away. He said as much. He included us all in a wave of a hand, then pointed to the scoutboat. "Here's your hat," Lindy interpreted. "Nice to have seen you. Goodbye." "Not my. hat exactly," Pegleg said. "Look." She was even more spectacular than her lord and master and she walked with a conscious pride. She was a glistening, glossy white. When she came closer we could see that the wide eyes were pink. They blinked continually in the strong lingt. She held both hands out before her gingerly and on the pink palms lay Pegleg's laser gun. "He sent for the gun," Pegleg conjectured. "He doesn't want us to have any reason to stick around. But it may have been her idea to bring it herself. She wanted to see you closeup." "You're guessing," I said. "Sure. But she watched me a lot in there. She does as she pleases. She's special. In fact, she's -- " "Aphrodite?" Lindy was gleeful. Pegleg grinned. "Could be." He bent to take his gun from the small outstretched hands and gravely made the gesture of respect. Lindy and I imitated him. The goddess favored us with a slow, regal stare, then ifiade a gracious motion. She turned and grasped the black hand of her big consort, cuddled against him. They Walked away from us, back along the lane through the sea of their subjects, making gracious gestures as they went. They did not look back. "Aphrodite's secret," Lindy murmured. "Is that all there is to it? Why, I've known that all along." I put my arm around her. "It's the worst-kept secret in the universe," I said, "and the male doesn't live who isn't glad." agreed that it was a good idea -- IF so we dropped magnetic grapples around the jeep, pulled it up and secured it tightly against the belly of the scoutboat. Then we cruised back along the chain of caverns, cameras recording the whole remarkable route. We watched and talked. Pegleg recounted his adventures. They were interesting, but, once explained, not too unusual. They are not pertinent here. He has put them on record in Vol. #. The Log of the Stardust. A. D. #.) We recognized that our chances of learning much more of the technology of the coon-people were not good. The details of how old Zeus managed the mechanics of the clouds were not likely to be known. We could have tried. But International Space Council ruling was specific on the point. No interference with the activities of an aware species. We were restricted to what our sensors could tell us. We could only learn what. Not how. If we had been invited -- but we weren't. Zeus had made that very plain. Still,. I was satisfied. Like every successful race Td encountered, this one had solved the basic problems. They had space and they used it well. They had built predation into their life scheme, so that their numbers would not become too great and so that the cleverest and the strongest would survive. And they had authority, a godhead, and they respected and obeyed it. The influence of their ruling deities could have extended far beyond their own species. The mysterious cloud forms of the mighty mountain certainly must have affected all living things that could see and realize their strangeness. I didn't know that there were such, but there could have been. The scoutboat nosed out of the entrance canyon and fiashed along the side of the range, homing on the mother ship. The great massif of Mount Olympus lay dead ahead, seeming even more magnificent and overpowering after our time in the caverns. And as we approached, the cloud banks spread, took on color and swirled even faster until the summit seemed wrapped in a whirling rainbow. There had never been such a display before. "Is it a threat, a salute or a warning?" Pegleg mused. "One thing is sure -- it's meant for us." "There's no menace in it," Lindy said. "I seem to feel that it's just making a statement, just reminding us." "Of what?" I asked. "Of an obvious fact. I think Browning said it many years ago much better than I ever could." "I'm shy on, Browning," Lsaid. My wife looked upward at the majestic mountain, and smiled as she quoted softly: Gods in his Heaven, Airs right with this world...  T his is the story of two people and how three of them died. By and large, they were pretty nice people. But it's not a very nice story.   # "I've come to buy some anger," called up the too-young man. He sat himself down on a metal sawhorse and waited. "Indeed?" replied the man working up and across from him. "Indeed," answered the tooyoung man. The gentleman working across from the too-young man and his metal sawhorse was engaged in an anomaly. He was repairing a boat. This in itself was not terribly unusual. It was a common enough activity in boatyards. But he was driving metal pinions into the boat's hull with a hand-held hammer. This, instead of using an automatic arm. What was more, the hull of the craft appeared to be made of natural celluloid materials instead of plasticine, metalloy, or ferrosponges. This ship was not new. Its hull was badly in need of a new coat of paint. From the back the man did not seem especially arresting. This impression changed when he paused, straightened and turned on his ladder to face the other. He stood slightly over average height but seemed taller. Leonine, well built, lithe. The lines in his face seemed put there by a drunken cartographer. Each led to some strange valley, forbidden city or unfathomable abyss of the soul. For all of that he was not ancient. The streaks of black in his otherwise iron-gray hair were plentiful and not the product of cosmetics. In back the hair was gathered into a single pigtail by an odd arrangement of leather bindings. A single solid-gold ring pierced his left ear. He had thick gray eyebrows that had been intended for a much larger man. They shaded equally gray eyes. His nose was long and slightly hooked. His mouth and lips were thin and clenched tightly. His whole expression was full of star space and vinegar. "What makes you think I could sell you anger, feller me lad?" "You are the man they call Sawbill," said the too-young man. It was not a question. "I'm the man some call Sawbill. I'm often called other things and many of them are better. Some are worse. Sawbill will do." Facing Sawbill, the too-young man was not all that young. The gulf between them, though, was one that some people might have called age. H IS metallic red jumpsuit flashed in the morning sun. "Then you're the one I want, all right. I am not without resources. Or brains. I've checked on you thoroughly. Oh, very carefully, very quietly. You needn't worry at all." "I wasn't. But go on." Sawbill was rummaging through a small keg of metal pinions, variously shaped and sized. "You weren't easy to locate -- I'll give you that. But I knew how to find you. It's all a matter of asking the right question in the right places. And if you have money and know a few people in expedient locations -- on the Port immigration board, for example -- you can find out just about anything. I want to make a purchase, Sawbill." The boat had a low-lying central cabin. A bird thing perched on the edge of it. The bird's rainbow-hued crest bobbed up and down like a metronome. Its tail was of bright golden feathers and the rest of it was dull, crushed, velvety gold. The thing fluttered down to land on Sawbill's right shoulder. Dipping and bobbing, it surveyed the new arrival. The rainbow crest feathers flashed in avian Morse. The too-young man stared with interest at the bird-thing. He was no ornithologist, not even an amateur. But he was well read. Enough to know that this bird was not native to Thalia Major. (It might have come from Thalia Minor, but he doubted it because...) "Well, feller me lad, who wants to buy anger -- what's your moniker?" "Moniker?" "Handle. Wing. Name. Pseudocorporeal psychic verbal inculcation. What have you been conditioned to call yourself?" "Jasper Jordan. And it's my real name, not an alias. See, I have no desire to hide things from you. I want this all to be very open. That's a fascinating pet you have." Sawbill carefully aligned a nail, drove it home with two solid, short raps from the hammer. He spoke without pausing in his work or looking back. "It's a pim-bird from Tehuantepec. The things are sacred to the Indians who inhabit the planet's two continents. They are called pim-birds for convenience. Of the natives -- not of the birds, who have nothing to say in the matter. Their real names are much longer and even incorporate a short snatch of song. You wouldn't understand it, because the natives themselves don't. It's a very old song. A rough terranglo translation begins Tears IF of the sun... and flows from there. This particular pim-bird supposedly contains the soul of the great emperor Lethan-atuan, who -- depending on which legend you prefer to believe -- at one time ruled with the most beautiful Queen Quetzal-ma half this galaxy or a clust#r of three small islands off the coast of the continent Col. Just now it happens to be hungry. It is said by the Indians that if the souls of the emperor and his queen are ever reunited, they will once again rule the galaxy. Which is one reason the natives permitted me to take him off-planet. They rather like their present system of rule and frown on the idea of long-dead emperors returning." H e turned and pointed the hammer at Jordan. "So you want to buy anger, hmm? What kind of anger?" "There are different kinds?" Sawbill picked up another couple of nails. "Different kinds? There are as many different kinds as there are foolish young men in the universe. There's uncertain anger, which is dark pits filled with thorns. There's jealous anger, which is honey and syrup all blended together and spoiled. There's the anger of unhappiness, which is the texture of polished chalcedony. There's the anger of helplessness, which is like sour milk to a babe. There's the anger of ignorance, which is the space betweert the stars. And the anger of creative genius, which is the grandest anger of them all and more than the sum of any two others. But I can't sell it to you because I'm always well out of it." "That's not the kind I want," said Jasper Jordan. "I have money and I'm not offensive to look upon. I need something to boost me down the road a bit. To activate the navigational gyro in my spirit. To move me. "Then you don't need anger; you need a psychiatrist," Sawbill replied evenly. "I don't want to change the way I feel. I want to indulge in it, to glory in it. I didn't come for what I need. I came for what I want. What I want is anger. Good, strong, biting, cleansing, wavebreaking, glass-shattering anger. The mate of hate. Seven-leagueboot anger. Do you understand?" He was not quite pleading. "Why, surely," said Sawbill, driving home another nail. "That's called righteous anger and I always keep plenty of that in stock. Come aboard." Jasper Jordan followed Sawbill up a small boarding ladder and into the bowels of the old sloop. The pim-bird, which might have been an emperor at one time -- and then again, might not -- looked down at them and whistled: Eekwfoo, eekwoo, ee-kwo-hoo... , self in an undisciplined old chair in the spacious central cabin. "You wait there," Sawbill said softly, "while I get what you want." He disappeared forward. Jordan looked around. The decor was esotei;ic -- indeed, eccentric. Most of the furnishings were made from natural woods. Some were dark-grained and highly polished, others as brown as raw bacon. For sheer color chromoplate had them beat hollow. For tactile beauty it was no contest. The chair in which he sat was worlds removed from the latemodel automatic fluxator in his office, the one that molded itself to every contour of his body. But somehow this collection of springs and stuffing flattered his backside quite well. Sawbill returned. He sat down opposite Jordan and placed seven tiny capsules on the table between Hhem. Each was clearly numbered. Jordan leaned forward. "As you can see, there are seven pills," began Sawbill. "They are to be taken in sequence, an hour apart. No closer than that, timewise. A thousand credits apiece. You have your card and meter with you?" Jordan nodded. He reached into a pocket, brought out both. After making the necessary adjustments he handed the card to Sawbill. "What happens after I've taken them all?" "An hour after you've taken the seventh pill you'll have thirty-six t-standard hours of what you want. That I promise you." Sawbill registered the exchange of credit on his own battered cardmeter, hsnded the card back to Jordan. Then he sat back in his chair and took out a pipe. He began stuffing it with tobacco. Jordan reset his card while Sawbill spoke. "If anyone should ask, you've never seen me before and you never will again." Jordan didn't look up. "You will have the anger to enforce the drive to do what it is you desire to do. Provided you don't run into someone with a stronger reserve of the natural stuff than what I've given you. Most unlikely that there is anyone on this planet who can resist the force those seven capsules are going to put in your head. "You're a peaceable-seeming young fellow. Those are usually the types who seek me out." "Mine is a case of a strong IF emotion seeking a stronger one," muttered Jordan. He pulled out a small quartz vial and carefully deposited the pills in it, one by one. Sawbill leaned forward suddenly. He put a gnarled hand covered with gray fuzz on Jordan's slimmer, smoother one. He stared hard and searchingly into the other's eyes. "You've no idea what you're getting into, feller me lad. Before you go I want to know what you intend these capsules for. I want to know why you want them. I want to know the details. I want the ramifications, the exigencies, the history you call up your desire from. I want all that before I let you go." "Well," Jordan began uncertainly, "there is a woman -- " "Ah," said Sawbill, removing his hand and sitting back. "That will do." T HE hull of the sloop had been repaired, sanded and refinished to be a smooth as the waves it would slide over. Now it was receiving a new coat of fresh, resistant red polymer. Thalia Major had performed another couple of pirouettes on its axis. Thalia Minor had, too. But, of course, that didn't matter, because... A tall young man arrived in the boatyard. He asked a few pointed questions and paid a few small bribes. He was very composed. Soon he was looking up at Sawbill. Sawbill was leaning over the back of the boat, painting the rudder. He used a brush, not a sprayer. "Are you the one they call Sawbill, who sells emotions?" asked the tall young man composedly. "Impossible," replied Sawbill sadly, pausing in his painting. "I'm Terence Wu," said the tall young man. He was elegantly dressed in a black-and-white semiformal suit. He wore his straight black hair in an Iroquois cut -- a wide bushy brush ran down the center of his skull. He had high cheekbones, a wide grin and small black eyes. Judging by the ring on his left hand, a ring that had been cut from a single large sapphire and caught the light of the sun like a siren, he also had a great deal of money. "I want to buy some anger," said the tall young man. "What kind of anger?" Sawbill asked, returning to his painting. He caught a spot lower down that he had missed earlier. "The kind of anger that lets you slash and cut without hesitation," said Terence Wu tightly. "The kind that makes other men look to their feet and cats sweat." The rich young man's hands were tightly the emoman clenched, nails impressing palms. He was most earnest. "The kind that the padres do not approve of. That kind of anger." Sawbill indicated the ladder. "Then come aboard, feller me lad, come aboard." Wu relaxed slightly and started for the ladder. "Then you have that kind of anger?" he asked, "Why, surely," replied Sawbill, dipping the brush in a can of clear polymer debonder. "That's the anger of revenge and I always keep plenty of that in stock." He took another look at the way the photon magnet on the man's finger disorganized the light of the fading sun. "It will cost you three times seven thousand credits, feller me lad." "That's perfectly agreeable," said Wu evenly, stepping onto the deck. Sawbill indicated the way down. "May I inquire why you should wish such anger?" "Well," began Wu, hesitantly, "there's a woman -- " "Ah!" said Sawbill understandingly. " -- and she's been taken from me. I want her back." "Of course," murmured Sawbill as he followed the young man down. Forward, the pim-bird observed the ocean devouring the sun-ball and said, Ee-kwoo, ee-kwoo, eekwoo-hoo... H e was stacking the last strands of new dylon rigging when a voice from below said, "Hello." Sawbill looked over the railing. The too-young man stood below. Jordan's face was pale, haggard, worn. His suit, blue this time, was badly rumpled, as was his manner. "Hello on board," he said rather shakily, evidently not seeing Sawbill. "Evening," said Sawbill. "Look -- I know I promised not to see you again, but I've got to talk to you." "Do you?" asked SawbiU, turning back to his waxing. He dipped a hand in the pot of wax and continued running the new line through his fingers. "But I don't have to talk to you." 'Dammit to hell!" came the whining yelp from the ground. "You got me into this. You've got to help me. Please." The voice paused. "You've got to sell me another dose!" "I don't have to sell you anything," Sawbill replied quietly. He stopped at a section of line that seemed a little frayed, gave it an extra coat of wax. "I can make trouble for you -- " "So can a bumblebee -- " Sawbill IF sighed -- "if his coordinates in relation to the center of the universe do not coincide with mine. But come on board and I'll listen to you." Jordan climbed on board. He was panting heavily. His visage was not a comforting thing to look upon. His face was dirty. He wiped absently at a particularly greasy spot under one eye. The gesture had the effect of redistributing the muck evenly across his cheek. He slumped into the pilot's seat behind the many-spoked wheel and groaned. "I've had other things on my mind," he'aid. "Were you satisfied with what you paid for?" Sawbill asked. For a moment Jordan seemed to brighten. A combination of feelings, none of them holy came into his eyes. "Yes. It was everything you promised. But afterward -- why couldn't you have given me a stronger dose, one for longer than thirty-six hours?" "I gave you the maximum for a person of your type." "How do you presume to know what 'type' I am?" Jordan asked belligerently. Sawbill looked up from his waxing. "If rd given you a stronger dose or told you to take the seven at slightly shorter intervals you would have been harmed -- you might even have died." "I don't believe you." Sawbill shrugged and went on with his waxing. After several minutes Jordan pleaded, "What can I do?" "Don't beg, don't cry and don't whine. I could sell you another kind of emotion that would cure those tendencies, too. But you would resist. So tell me what happened. Why do you find it necessary to acquire more anger than is good for a man at one time?" "There's this girl -- " began Jasper Jordan. "That's the substance, the body, the core, the hub of the thing," said Sawbill. "Now supply me the tinsel, the sprinkles on top of the sweetcakes, the things that meta-. morphose your need into leeches." "She's the most beautiful girl on Thalia Major." "Not in the universe?" "Don't mock me. I don't know the universe. I only know Thalia Major. And Minor, of course, but that doesn't matter. We were in love -- " "How long have you known her?" "Three weeks," Jordan said defiantly. When Sawbill did not comment he continued. "Everything was fine. We were going to be married." 'Did she finally agree to marry you?" 'Mt went without saying. As I said -- everything was fine until several days ago. Then I found out she was seeing another -- man, I suppose I must call him. She didn't deny it. She admitted she was meeting this putrid, low... I couldn't understand why. But I couldn't convince her to break it off. He had hypnotized her. I'm a very mild, you might even say a tame, individual. I didn't have the force of personality to confront him. We're all very civilized here on Thalia Major." "Yes," said Sawbill encouragingly. "I just wanted to warn him off, to tell him to leave us alone. Not to confuse her any more. So I came to see you. Everyone knows about you Emomen -- even if you are hard to find." "We like it that way." "Well, the beginning went just as I had hoped -- exactly as I had imagined it would. Better, even. I was a terror -- although I don't remember the details very well. I'm afraid. I completely overpowered him spiritually and mentally. He couldn't take it. He vowed never to see her again. And he meant it. I could tell. I was irresistible. Then -- yesterday -- he confronted me in my office. We had a terrible row. He was a madman! I had never seen a human being behave so. I was reduced to -- jelly. He was an elemental force. I tried to stand up to him, but I couldn't. I found myself babbling apologies for ever having looked at Jo-ann. You can't imagine what it Was like. I've never confronted anything like that before. Helpless. And he recorded the entire thing, the whole humiliating experience. "And then, last night I tried to sneak over to see her. To try to rebuild myself in her eyes at least partially. Praying all the while, of course, that I wouldn't rrfeet that giant, that godlike devil again. I saw them taking the lift up to her apartment -- and went out and got drunk. Then it came to me to come back here. You've got to give 'me something stronger this time -- something that will last. Something that will enable me to push him away once and for all." Sawbill finished washing the wax from his hands. He sat back against the bulk of the cabin. He became absorbed in an inspection of the rear hatchway. After a long while he asked bluntly, "Why should I become a participant in this? Perhaps he is the better man for her than you. Maybe matters are best left this way." IF "It's his father's money that's blinded her! The family name is... well, no matter. But the father is one of the richest men in Barragash. I work hard -- I'm well off, yes. But not in that class. I can compete with him and better hini in everything except the matter of credit." Sawbill was adamant. "I will sell you nothing stronger. I gave you your maximum dosage. And that's all you can have." The too-young man was desperate. "Then at least sell me the same, the same seven again. You owe me that." Sawbill grunted and wiped his hands on his pants. "It will cost you double this time." "Yes, yes, anything -- " He was like an eager puppy. "I promise -- if this doesn't do it I will give her up to him. I'll move to another city. Perhaps to another planet. I might even go to Thalia Minor. Who knows? But in any case I will not trouble you again." On a high mast the pim-bird was sobbing for the moon. S ails furled, the little sloop sat on the water. Sawbill had the mainsail ready and was preparing the spinnaker when the peaceforcers came for him. The man on the dock was short and plump. He had a benignly optimistic face and scraggly brown hair that was fighting a rear-guard action. A green aircar waited at the far end of the dock. It had the oak tree symbol of the peaceforcer emblazoned on its side. Two uniformed men stood against it, chatting. "Pretty little ship," said the man on the dock. "Yes, It is," said Sawbill. "Used not to be. Is now." He was wrestling with the sail locker. The pimbird fidgeted and bobbed on his shoulder. It moved to the top of his head, then dropped down to the shoulder again, eyeing the short man. "I'd like you to come with me for a bit, Sawbill. I'm Inspector Herrera," "Nice for you, I guess." "Usually it is, but not today." "I was just about to go out for a month or so. I'm trying to get away from people and civilization for a while. A vacation -- you understand?" Herrera nodded. "I do. Really, I do." He seemed honestly sympathetic. "But I'd still like you to come with me." "If I decline?" Sawbill asked, straightening. "No doubt those gentlemen by your car will hurry down here with things short, metallic and unesthetic. To persuade me?" Herrera sighed. "No, Sawbill, they win not. You've probably heard before that we are very civilized, here on Thalia Major. One of those men is a driver -- and all he is going to do is drive. The other is a secretary." "And all he will do is sec?" "Please don't make light of this. It's difficult enough for me as it is. I cannot compel you." "Meaning I'm not under arrest, right?" "As you are well aware I have no grounds for an arrest. Wish I did. But I suspect you will come with me -- out of curiosity if for no other reason. I will not delay you long -- a moment or two out of your vacation is all I nced." Sawbill hesitated. Then he tied down the sails and climbed down to the dock. He and Herrera started toward the aircar. "Where are you going to go, Sawbill?" "The Marragas Islands, then south to the Anacapa atolls. I'd like to put in there for a bit. I understand most of the reefs around there are still uninhabited and rarely visited. Good fishing, too." "So I hear," said Herrera. "Most folk around here go north for their vacations. To Three and Ark and Jumbles -- pleasure towns. Where all their surprises can be arranged for them. All the entertainment galactic ingenuity can provide. And build." T here was a lot of blood in the room, which was done in blue and gold. The red blood contrasted strangely. The electric cur tains were drawn back, admitting the sun. They were for effect only, since the glass was fully polarized. The sunlight gave added obscenity to the stains. What was left of the body of the girl was sprawled across the back of the couch, facing the open window. She had been torn apart. Her insides were strewn acrCss half the room. Her face, Sawbill could see, probably had once been pretty, possibly even beautiful. Terence Wu was also in  the room. All over it. A bit here, a fragment there. Sawbill could make out an arm protruding from under the couch. Nothing was attached to the arm. A leg dangled from the mantel over the quaint, wood-burning fireplace. The corpse of Jasper Jordan was in the bathroom, slumped over the rim of the sunken oval tub. Herrera was watching Sawbill closely. "Acci)rding to what wje've been IF able to piece together with the help of the building computer, Jordan broke in some time around three in the morning. Probably he just wanted to talk to the girl. For some reason she had forgotten to set her doorseal. When he came in he found them on the rug. There, in front of the fireplace." Herrera pointed. "He didn't even try to talk to them, is my guess. Could be he'd taken something. Blood analysis and tissue evaluation show the presence of complex hormones in his body. Puzzled the lab boys for quite a while. They're not used to seeing that kind of stuff." Herrera watched Sawbill steadily. "A fast check on Jordan's credit count revealed the recent transfer of the rather surprising sum of twenty-one thousand credits to one individual. You." "This whole procedure is quite illegal," injected Sawbill mildly. "Oh, to be sure, to be sure," said Herrera. "Our information cannot be used in court -- and obviously is not going to be." "I have tapes of the transaction, too." "I'm sure you do," replied Herrera. "And I've no doubt it was all done with the greatest respect for the letter of the law." "Quite." "I'm going to have to compose some sort of explanation for the faxpax and for relatives. These people were no bums. Three nominally respected citizens have died here. Just for my own information and to satisfy my morbid curiosity, what did you sell him?" "Anger." "I see. Anger." Herrera looked around and took in the wholesale carnage. "A little anger did all this?" "Ordinarily it would not. You must believe that." "Oh, sure. Yeah." Sawbill shrugged. "I agree with you. When Jordan walked in on Wu and the girl I don't think he'd taken a thing. Knowing the sort he was I expected him to try reason after what I'd told him." "I'll bet you did." "I mean that! Otherwise I wouldn't have sold to him. Neither man was inherently vicious. I warned Jordan enough against taking the seven. But when he came in and found them making love he obviously went berserk. The seven integrals of the star should be taken an hour apart. That's leaving a quarter-hour safety limit, which I never mention. A half-hour is the real danger point. He must have downed them all at once. The result is unimaginable to most men. Overwhelming. Few minds could handle such an abrupt release. He couldn't. But I was ctitect about his innate mental control and discipline.' Herrera gestured angrily around them. "You call this control?" "Yes! He had enough sense left to kill himself. He did kill himself?" "We took the knife back to the lab," admitted Herrera. "What he was undergoing was to normal anger as a nova is to a normal sun. A less controlled individual would have stumbled from the room and gone to kill a hundred people in an orgy of release." "I don't understand how any drug can boost an emotion like that," murmured Herrera, shaking his head. "It doesn't 'boost' tffe emotion -- or add to it or multiply it," Sawbill said. "That's the common mistake everyone makes. They don't consider the other -- those who don't want to believe it. The drug removes the natural safeguards a man's mind has built up to protect and regulate his natural self. It breaks the seal holding air in the tank, doesn't pump more air of evolutionary barriers man has carefully erected to hold back the blackness that lives inside him. Taken properly it does so in the smallest way. It isn't dangerous, just effectively awesome. Few men can resist the tiny blot of animal self so set free. "But when all the safeguards are removed, like this..." "I think I  see," whispered Herrera. "May I leave now?" "What? Oh, yes, you can go. Get out of my sight." Sawbill paused at the door. "What about the girl?" "How do you mean? Oh, I understand. What you might expect. She was playing one off against the other. Jordan was a little more naive than Wu, I suspect. I hope she enjoyed it." Herrera paused. Then: "I checked you with Central and Customs, hoping I could get you on illegal entry. No such luck. I see you got your doctorate in endocrinology from the University of Belem. That's on Terra, isn't it?" Sawbill nodded. He was halfway out of the room. "One other thing," Herrera said hurriedly. "I've never met one of you before. Tell me, is it true what they say about you Emomen?" "What do they say about us Emomen?" "That you haven't any true emotions of your own? That you're so tied up in playing God that you've lost your own capacity to feej? That your humanity's atrophied?" "Oh, there's no doubt about it," said Sawbill. He closed the door quietly behind him. # IF is known and loved by a legion of readers from all walks of life. They read him, bay him, and come back for more! You have never seen a writer analyzed like this before. Clothbound, #. Aid Alt Frtii Miragg... Third in this popular series articles and art on sorcery and swordplay by top authors. Clothbound, #. Unusual adult poetry illustrated by Tim Kirk. Cloth. #. A major SF great analyzes the father of modern science fiction's ideas on progress. Cloth, #. Revised and expanded, paper, #. nis Rickard; introduction by Gahan Wilson. A photo book of Smith's weird carvings, paper, #. A huge dictionary and concordance to the works Tolkien, called "the ultimate Tolkien reference work. "Cloth #. Ask far a Fraa aatalag. Writa: I into his foamer. He reached a hand out of the froth to dial a cold drink while the suit dissolved from his sweaty torso. No drink came. Then he remembered. His credit balance was down and half his apartment appliances were out of service until he made a repair of his financial situation. "I'm too old to be destitute," he lamented, still hardly believing I She had light-years to get to her new home -- but decided to live them right here! the situation. But he had not been too old to lose a gamble to increase his fortune -- a gamble he had been talked into by a hard-sell outfit. Frustrated, he stepped out, letting the spume drain away. He punched for a new suit, knowing that a brave new exterior would refresh his spirit. The suiter did not produce. Fisk stood naked, slowly coming to grips with his condition. He had never before suffered from malnutrition of credit and he had hardly gotten the feel of it yet. There was no clothing in his apartment. Why should there be, when the day's attire was always conveniently recycled after use? He had nothing to wear. He was no lean, muscular youth who could trot outside in Adamic splendor and stare down anyone who blinked. When properly suited Fisk was portly -- bare, he was, bluntly, fat. He would not, of course, be that way long if he failed to find some way to renew his credit. He had been politely inquiring about situations for a gentleman with his qualifications -- and receiving tacit demurrals. Hunger would very shortly put an end to that. It was past time to hustle out and get a job. If he could only figure out how. He punched for the newsfax wants ads and was relieved to see the paper slide into the hopper. As long as he could communicate he could function. Quickly he eliminated the ads obviously intended for women, for youth and for specialists. The economy was in one of its perennial recessions and there were few promising entries for the untrained. The main field available to him was sales. Fisk winced. He had been reduced to his present circumstances by a salesman. But the episode had certainly been a kind of experience. Why couldn't he himself sell a legitimate product? But as he read more closely he discovered that sales, too, demanded specialization. He could not afford even the nominal sixweek hiatus for insurance training -- he needed a credit balance now. He could hardly peddle household machinery when the first requirement was to purchase the demonstrator models. He could not even go for a preliminary interview in this present dishabille. And he absolutely refused to go The remaining offerings were scant, and not particularly enticing. Artificial Manure, no exp. req. That stank! Artistic Photography, Special Interest, black baby # comm. No -- he was not ready to peddle pornography. Intangible, must travel. No doubt that salesman had to travel -- when his intangible product turned out also to have intangible value. snagged his wandering eye and hauled it back. Call collect. No product, no requirement, just' call the number. Well, whoever ran that one understood Fisk's desperation. He could apply there even if his phone credit stalled. So he punched the number, collect. To his slight surprise the call was accepted. A nervous-looking middle-aged woman appeared on the screen. She looked at him sharply. "Yes?" "My name is Fisk Centers. I'm interested in employment. Your ad -- '" "I know what the ad says," she snapped. "If this is your idea of a joke at our expense -- " Fisk belatedly remembered that he was unclothed. He had been so preoccupied by his predicament that -- well, too late now. Honesty was always the best and only policy. "I'm -- broke. My suiter's been interdicted. I need a credit balance in a hurry -- as you can see. I shall be happy to provide my identity code if you wish to verify -- " She smiled fleetingly. "I see. The position is open. Expenses and commission. If you qualify." "I have to tell you I'm fifty and untrained in sales. I suffered a business loss -- " "Oh? What kind? If you were rolled -- " "I bought into Mars, Inc. Limited, I mean. Mars, Limited. Ten lots in Elysium Acres. Cash." She whistled. "They say one's born every minute, but your kind comes only once a week. You lost -- " " -- the shirt off my back," Fisk finished, trying to smile. "At least," she said, eying him again. "When can you report?" "I beg your pardon?" "You want a job, don't you?" "Oh." Fisk had been so well braced against turndown that he was hardly prepared. "As soon as I get dressed. Uh -- " "We'll call it a business expense," she said. "Have a suit on us, Mr. Centers." And the suiter. "But I don't even know your business," he protested feebly as he hastened to the unit. "Mr. Johns will explain all that at the office." She paused. "You can work with nonwhites?" "I pride myself on my inflexible nonbigotry." IF "'But you understand that a certain discretion may be necessary." "I can keep my mouth shut." He was familiar enough with middle-class values to realize that this constituted a pretty compelling agreement. He could take the job or reject it, but he could not talk about it elsewhere. She smiled again, this time with genuine warmth. "Mr. Centers, I think you'll do very well with our organization." F isk was met at the office by a hard-looking young man. "rm Chic Johns, procurement. You'll be on sales, of course. Know anything about the adoption racket?" "Nothing. I -- " "Good. We'll tell you all you need to know. We sell babies." "I don't think I understand." Johns appraised him synically. "Right. You look like a businessman and you talk like one. We like that. Just remember -- we don't gab about business matters to third parties. You take the client's order and deliver the body and collect the cash. We do the rest. All in strict privacy. Right?" "But I understood it was against the law to assign a monetary value to -- " " "It's like this. Centers. The state agencies charge for costs, always inflated, which is really the same thing as selling for a profit. Thousand dollars minimum for a live body. They make their bundle, never you fear. But they're choosy as hell. No black on white or yellow on black -- know what I mean? If the client balks they find him "unqualified' and he's on the blacklist and can die childless for all they care -- he's out. Lots of good potential parents get hung up that way. So it's up to us private concerns to fill the vacuum. We don't ask questions -- we don't have restrictions. Client tells us what he wants and we get it for a price -- just like any other business." Fisk found this hard to as similate. "But these are human beings. Surely you wouldn't place an innocent baby with unfit parents." Johns shrugged. "I wouldn't. But my end is procurement, not placement. You're the one who decides on parental qualifications. But remember, we don't have the staff to do a damn security check on every family that wants a child. And who's to say who's fit or unfit? Some pretty rough people are mighty good to their kids -- and some pillars of society, the kind the state agencies like, are raising speed demons, not to mention the real addicts. Our record is at least as good as the state's when you consider the family, not the class -- and we deliver much faster. So we just charge enough to discourage anybody who's in it for laughs. Would you pay three, four grand for a piddling black baby if you didn't mean to take care of it?" "No, of course not. But -- " "So okay. Here's the procedure book. Take it home, study it today. Tomorrow's your first ass." "Ass?" "Assignment. Tomorrow maybe you'll place a poor black baby in a rich white home, Centers. Twenty per cent commission on the gross. Maybe eight hundred dollars for a day's work. Like the notion?" "I'll, er, try my best," Fisk said uncertainly. It was a job. T he book was far more sophisticated in language than Chic Johns had been, providing elegant explanations and justifications for private adoption procedures. But the man's callous summary seemed essentially correct. State regulations were so complex and picayune and state agency staffs so overworked that many worthy prospective parents were unfairly denied adoptive children. Many innocent babies were forced to grow up in impersonal institutions, where they soon became so backward as to be unadoptaUe. Even a bad family appeared, on balance, to be a superior environment for a child than a good state orphanage. A child. needed parents. But Fisk, doubly wary after his bilking by Mars, Ltd. -- accomplished via its plausible sales pitch -- checked carefully for pitfalls. This manual could be biased, deliberately distorting the state agency picture in order to justify the need for an intrusion by private enterprise He phoned the library information service and verified that state institutions were run according to strict and basically fair precepts, so that orphans were not actually deprived -- but adoption into families was still preferable. He learned that no adoption was legal unless court-approved, so that if this seeming detail were omitted a child could be taken away at any time from even the most loving and competent parents. The main complaint lodged against blackmarket outfits was their frequent failure to nail dowp adoptions in cQurt. The procedure book Chic Johns had given him was supposed to contain all he needed to know about placing a child for adoption. Yet it made no reference to the court requirement. IF Fisk reviewed the library material carefully. Theoretically it was impossible for a baby to be adopted without court sanction -- i.e., via black market. But now that he had a notion which lines to read between, he saw that there were avenues. The problem was not the placement, for many more people wanted children than the supply could accommodate. The problem was the acquisition. A few babies might be born unrecorded -- but the overwhelming majority arrived in hospitals or with sanctioned medical supervision and all of these were duly recorded. Once recorded, they were in the computerized system -- the state knew the approximate whereabouts of every recorded human being. But some officials were susceptible to corruption and supervisory agencies were chronically overworked, so there was a practical loophole, for a continuing siphoning of babies theoretically destined for legitimate placement. If no one complained and no one checked to make certain a given baby had arrived, the computer's entry was in fact fictitious -- sometimes. But it would be pretpature to assume that he had landed in such a black-market enterprise, Fisk told himself. He had gotten in trouble before by jumping to conclusions -- and he needed the job. The court would make its own investigation at the time of the adoption -- and if anything were wrong the transaction would be avoided. It was the ethical responsibility of the placement agent -- himself -- to make arrangements for such legal blessing. A small unease nagged at him subliminally, but the thought of an eight-hundred-dollar coidmission for one day's work forced aside his final doubts. His best course was to try to do the job honestly before judging it. He could always quit once he had verified the facts, if that was the way it went. T he woman was back on duty in the morning. "All set, Mr. Centers?" she inquired over mounded paperwork. "Ready to try," he said. "I'll need to know a lot more, but I should be able to work it out as I o along." "Good. Here's your first lead. Find out what they want and report back here. Don't talk business over the phone -- we never do that. Remember, make no promises. Just say you'll try." That simple! Fisk took the card she proffered and read it: Michael Ormand, with an address in one of the newer apartment complexes. But why no business over the phone? An order was a fairly straightforward thing. Ormand was a genial muscular man of about thirty, with a scalped-looking crewcut. Under it Fisk detected the inset metal contacts of a spaceman. He tried not to stare. He knew about the brain-to-machine synapses used by interplanetary crewmen, but had never seen the implants at close quarters before. "Mars shuttle?" Fisk inquired, feeling a twinge. It was foolish foj him to resent everything connected with Mars, but the wound still pained. "Venus," Ormand answered. "But I'm through with all that. No more shuttling. Going to retire now I've made my pile. Want a family." "That's what I'm here to discuss," Fisk said with what he hoped was the proper note of professional encouragement. This was easy enough, so far. "May I ask what you plan to do now?" "It's none of your business, but I'll tell you. I'll grow mugwumps." "I beg your pardon?" "Mugwumps. Venusian pseudoplants. Very pretty, use no water or sunlight, smell like a lemon. They're in big demand here on Earth, but I'm not doing it for the money. Made my pile already, as I said. Challenge, you know. Never been cultivated before." Fisk made a mental note to look up mugwumps -- he had not heard the word in this connection before. "I see. What kind of child were you thinking of adopting? "You understand we are a private, fee-charging agency. We do our best, but we can't make promises -- except that we don't collect until we deliver." "Sure. No red tape -- that's what I like. I figure a little girl, nine or ten. Healthy, you know?" "Nine or ten months," Fisk repeated, writing it down. "Months? Years! What would I want with a squalling baby?" "Oh," Fisk said, nonplused. "Sorry. I thought -- uh -- how long have you been married?" "Married? Spacemen don't marry. What would I want with a gold-digging wife?" Fisk choked. "Mr. Ormand, If you want to adopt -- " "That's why I want to adopt. A nice, sweet little girl. Catch her before she gets bitchy, train her right, you know? Older women are unmanageable." "But -- " "You're single, aren't you? You know what women are like." IF "But you can't adopt when you're single." Ormand glanced at him in surprise. "I can't?" "Of course not. Only married couples can -- " The man smiled. "Oh, that's the agency pitch. Sure. That's why I called you. To cut that bilge. Look, you don't need to beat up the price on me. I told you I'm loaded. Don't worry about it. Find me what I want and I'll pay. Within reason. I know what the range is for this sort of thing. And I'll give you a little bonus on the side for prompt service. Fair enough?" Fisk was afraid of what would come out if he opened his mouth, so he kept it closed. Somehow he made his exit in good order. X Sure, we can get," Johns said at the office. "That kind's a glut on the market. And he won't quibble on color or price. Good show, Centers -- I can see you've got the knack." This was not the response Fisk had anticipated. He had supposed the sale doomed. "But he's single." "So?" "What about the law?" Johns made a face as though he had heard a bad word. "What about it? Didn't you read the book? Singles can adopt -- if they have the means to make a good home. And this guy does. He'll bite for five grand, wait and see. Grand for you, grand for me -- and grand for business." Fisk felt vaguely nauseated, but he didn't want to imperil his income by raising uninformed objections. A thousand dollars could go a long way in reconstituting his life style. "Do you have a ten-year-old girl? Uh, in stock?" "You think I keep that kind packed in desk drawers? I'll find one," Johns said confidently. "Just a matter of making the connection -- and a little quiet negotiation. Two days, maybe. Don't you worry about that. My end of the business, procurement. Just you go out on your next ass and see if you can land another order to match the first." Fisk retained strong personal reservations about this business, but he went. As it happened, the leads fizzled. Some people merely wanted information. Others backed off when it came to the point of actually ordering a baby. One lady seemed to be more interested in finding a husband and Fisk barely escaped intact. Ormand was right -- some older women did get predatory. Meanwhile, however much he might look the part, he was not a high-pressure salesman. vOn the third day Johns barged into the office, hauling along a screaming tantrum of a spitfire. 'Got her!" he exclaimed breathlessly, shoving the creature into the center of the room and leaning against the door. Blood dripped from a scratch on his cheek and his suit was torn in a couple of places, but he was smiling. "What a job!" Abruptly the commotion ceased. A young girl of indeterminate color and culture stood there. "Hi," she said to Fisk, nodding her short black tangle of hair pertly. "You the sucker?" Fisk turned to Johns, dismayed. "Surely this isn't -- " "Surely this is! Take her to your client and get the money. Real bargain for him. See those classic facial lines? That animal vigor? That instant self-control? You know the price." Fisk found the moral ramifications too fast to contemplate on the spot, so he shelved them in favor of details. "He -- he wants a -- a nice sweet little girl." "I'm nice and sweet," the girl snarled. "When I want to be." "Would you want to be sweet for a man who'll shell out five grand for you?" Johns asked her with a half-smile. "Five grand?" she exclaimed, delighted. "Am I worthall that?" "If you behave. At least until the deal's complete. After that, who cares? You're in." "Yeah, who cares?" she echoed, with momentary mischief. Despite their manner of entry, Johns and the girl appeared to have a certain mutual appreciation of each other's motives. Fisk had been concerned for the welfare of the child, but now he suspected that the client was the sucker she had implied. Should he proceed with this transaction? What would he eat if he didn't? He had made no other sales (placed no other children, he corrected himself), so his commission was zero. The office petty cash wouldn't carry him long. Sheer need was bruising his scruples. "Okay, .Centers -- now take her away," Johns commanded briskly. "Clean her up and feed her first, so she doesn't snatch. Here are a couple of tokens. Play it cool. But don't turn her over until you get his payment." F isk took her away, with a stop at a refresher booth to get her cleaned and dressed for presentation. He wished he could do the same for himself -- his home foamer had quit the day before and this was his fourth day in a one-day suit. Only extreme care kept him from looking seedy. Of course he could always sell IF one of his Mars lots. But those were worth only one per cent what he had paid, and he couldn't bring himself to convert that paper loss to cash. Marsland might eventually improve. "What's your nairie?" he asked belatedly as she foamed. "Yola. Hey, I've never been in a public booth before. Neat!" Her voice emerged from a speaker beside the entrance. There was no vision screen, of course. "How did Johns get you?" Fisk couldn't bring himself to use the term "procure" in this connection. "The usual. I was doing time in solitary 'cause I -- aw, never, mind. The cage was glad to unload me -- and not for any five grand, either." "The orphanage sold you?" "They don't call it that. Order came through the Juvenile Parole Agency, which is a legit division of Youth Services. But somewhere along the way I got shunted -- and here I am." "You mean you were abducted from your lawful guardian?" "You don-i know much, do you? It was just in the paperwork. Same thing, I guess. The usual, I said." "But how could you be transferred from a state institution to a -- to here?" "If I knew I'd know enough not to talk about it," she said uncomfortably. Then she changed the subject. "Is it a nice family?" "It's a single man. Spacer." She didn't respond right away and Fisk hardly needed to inquire why. Children in institutions learned early about life, and the spacers were notorious for their planetfall orgies. The situation was developing into something a far cry from the philanthropic service Fisk had hopefully anticipated. "Well, let's go," she said, emerging. Fisk had feared she had punched some outrageous replacement outfit, but she was tastefully dressed for her age: eleven. She was small, looked undernourished and not black-skinned, though she obviously derived from mixed ancestry. She looked tanned on the body and the faintly Negroid cast about her features was not obvious at a casual glance, No doubt neither pure black nor pure white had wanted her as a baby, as neither considered brown beautiful. So she was here. "So whatcha gaping at?" she demanded. He guided her to the fooder and inserted the second token. "Punch what you want -- and make sure you have enough to fill up," he advised, hoping she would order so much that he would get to abate his sudden hunger on the surplus. He had been scrimping on meals. She looked at him sidelong, punched a supersoda and a miniature dog biscuit. "For you," she said, proffering the latter. Fisk was too hungry to be properly furious. He chewed on the biscuit while shp slurped the giant confection noisily. An unlimited one-iitting fooder order gone to waste! But his conience hung on. "Are you sure you want to go through with this, Yola? A single man -- " ' "A single -- loaded -- man. Think Tm dumb? Better'n solitary, for sure, ril get to see shows, sleep late, eat anything I want -- " "Then why were you fighting so hard when Johns brought you in?" "I don't like being told what to do." "Do you always throw a tantrum when -- " "Always. Matter of principle." "That could get you into trouble." She contemplated him obliquely as the soda drained to vociferous dregs. "My middle name. Grandad." "Don't call me Grandad." "Don't tell me what to call you -- " she screamed, not stinting on the volume. It was amazing how far a soprano voice carried. People stopped in the street outside to look up iil Fisk fought to keep the flush off his face. Then, sweetly: " -- grandad." Fisk decided to ignore it. "We have n appointment, Yola." "Right, Centers," she agreed with continued insolence. But he was determined not to let her have the satisfaction of his reaction. "Very nice," he said, studying Yola with more critical intensity than Fisk thought appropriate for such an interview. He half hoped the child would pull an instant tantrum and void the placement, but for the moment she was every inch the demure pre-teen, "Here's your check, sir. Five grand, certified." "Just a minute," Fisk protested. "You can't just -- " "Why not, Mr. Centers?" Yola asked innocently. She turned to Ormand. "May I call you Dad?" "Sure, Kid. Go punch yourself a soda," he said amiably. "No hard stuff, now." Then, to Fisk: "Don't worry. I didn't forget yours. I know how it goes. I made it out separately. So your office wouldn't know. Five hundred." He handed over the second check, winking. "I'm not talking about that" Fisk's moral anguish was becoming tempered by the greed of desperation. Five hundred would fuel his IF finances for a couple of weeks. "You -- you two -- you don't even know each other," "What's to know, Mr. Centers?" Yola inquired prettily over her soda. This one didn't slurp -- she sipped it with delicacy. "Dad'sgot a nice layout here, a real home. He's a nice guy." "Yeah," Ormand agreed. "I've got what she wants -- she's what I want and you've got your money. So it's done. We're all happy and thank you. Now toddle off, Centers. You're interfering in family business." "Yeah," Yola echoed almost inaudibly. They were both reasonably satisfied, neither being quite the bargain the other supposed -- and Fisk did have the money. Why should he object? He had performed his function. He had a thousand-dollar commission coming for this transaction. Yet he balked, feeling like a pimp. He said, "We have to complete the contract and make arrangements for the formal adoption. There'll have to be a court hearing and -- " "A what?" Ormand demanded incredulously. Then he caught himself. "Oh, sure. I'll take care of that. You don't need to bother." "I do need to bother," Fisk said, his stubborn streak coming into play. "Somebody could take her away from you at any time, no matter how long -- " "Oh, that's it," Ormand said, seeming relieved. "That's okay. Nothing's going to happen inside of ten days, is it?" "Not that I know of. But there is no expiration on a counterclaim of this nature. If a natural parent showed up in five years -- " Ormand laughed. "Fat chance. They'd never follow where we're going!" "Where are we going, Dad?" Yola inquired. "To Venus, of course. Got my one-way passes for the next liftoff, just ten days away." Yola spat out a mouthful of soda. "Venus!" ' "Sure, kid. To farm mugwump. It only grows onVenus, you know." "But there aren't any shows on Venus!" Yola shrieked as though mortally wounded. "No foamers, no fooders, no autobeds. It's just a perpetual sandstorm!" "Right. Real challenge. Ideal for mugwumps and no neighbors to butt in, except for the shuttle every four months. Great life." "In a spacesuit!" she wailed, her anguish intensifying. "All day! And the trip there takes six months cooped up in an old tin can with nothing but nasty ol' vacuum trying to get in -- " "The vacuum doesn't come in," Ormand said. "The air goes out if there's a leak. And the trip takes longer right now because of the phase. And it's getting worse. That's why I have to make a tight schedule. The free fall gets to you if you stay in space too long, speciallly if you're not used to it." "Free fall?" she repeated faintly. "I get sick just in the downshaft -- " "I don't understand," Fisk said. "If you're settling on Venus -- why are you adopting a girl?" "Why do you think he wants a girl. Grandad?" Yola asked. "Well, it's a long trip out and a rough, lonely life," Ormand said reasonably. "What grown woman would sign up for it?" "A desperate one," Fisk said. "No other." "Just count me out, Ormand," Yola cried. "I'm no Lolita!" Fisk couldn't resist needling her, though he was privately relieved about her change of heart. "You didn't object before, Yola." "He wasn't going to Venus before!" "I was," Ormand said. "That's why I -- " "You stay out of this, childbuyer!" she screamed at him. "Watch who you're sassing, kid," he snapped back. His temper was about as quick as hers. She threw the soda cup at him. "I'll sass anybody I please, you -- oh!" was hauling her over his knee. He flipped her short skirt up over her back. "No daughter of mine is going to sass her elders," he said as his hand came down resoundingly on her little posterior. Yola screeched incoherently. Fisk had some sympathy with each party and did not interfere. Yola certainly had no reason to like Venus, but Ormand was taking the kind of firm disciplinary action Fisk envied. They were working it out. Then Yola jackknifed and bit the man on the ankle. It was Ormand's turn to exclaim with pain and rage. By the time he recovered his bearings Yola had scooted across the room. Fisk had been pleasantly bemused by the suddenness and violence of these proceedings, but now he stepped between the fighters. "I'm afraid this isn't going to work. Here are your checks back, Mr. Ormand. Til return this girl to the -- " "Uh-wA!" Yola said. "No, you don't, Centers," Ormand rapped simultaneously, slapping the checks to the floor. IF "I don't have time to get another girl. This one'll be fine once I get her broken in." "Go break in your fat head!" Yola cried casting about for something else to throw. Fisk caught her by the wrist and hustled her out of the apartment and this time she didn't object to being directed. Ormand charged after them, but Yola ducked back and tripped him with professional dispatch. He sprawled ignominiously. Fisk wondered just what sort of education children obtained in state orphanages, for spacers were normally sure on their feet. He and Yola ran to the exit chute and jumped in. She did look a little queasy in that brief free fall, though several factors could account for that. The house alarm was already sounding as they boarded the transport for the office. Ormand must have called the police. Fisk and Yola were on their way and by the time the police net tightened... "Let him rant," Fisk said angrily as the capsule popped into its vacuum tunnel and accelerated. "The adoption was never consummated. He has no call on you." "Good," she said. "Where are we headed now?" "To the office. Then Johns will return you to the orphanage -- or wherever you came from." "Not me," she said. "I hate that place." "But you agreed to go back. I heard you -- in the apartment." "I said uh-tir, not uh-AuA, Grandad." "You don't want to go to Venus, do you?" "No. But I'm not going back in local solitary cither," she said. "I don't see what choice you have -- unless another client happens to be looking for a girl your age. And frankly, your spot tantrums don't make you very -- " "What do you want to do with these?" she asked, interrupting him. "They're made out to you, you know." "I'll just explain the situation at the office -- " He stopped, seeing what she held. "What are you doing with -- " "Ormand's checks?" she said innocently. "I figured we might need the money so I scooped them up while -- " "His checks? Yola, that represents either stealing or acceptance of payment. It gives him a theoretical basis to -- " "To sue?" she inquired with mock astonishment. "Gee, you could get in bad trouble. Centers -- " AH vehicles halt in place, the capsule loudspeaker said. Stand by for inspection... "No wonder he's mad," Fisk said as he punched the halt button. "I didn't realize we'd taken his money." "Mistake, huh?" she said, looking at the checks. Ill S ometimes she was unbearable, but this time she seemed genuinely contrite. "Bad mistake," he told her. Open vent. The police had connected a pressurized tube -- the capsule could not be opened in the tunnel vacuum. Reluctantly, Fisk pressed the "You dope!" Yola cried, slapthe machinery functioned. "They'll hang you!" She hit emergency "What are you doing?" Fisk exclaimed as the vehicle shot forward with a force possible only in vacuum, ripping away the police tube. "Making your getaway, Grandad," she said. "No sense having you in the hole for theft." "But I was going to return the checks and explain -- "And let me hang?" "You have an unduly suspicious mind. Once the mistake is clarified, nobody will -- " "Uh-wi. Get that uh this time. Centers. You aren't going to return that money and void the sale. I told you I'm not going back to the pen. Not for anything." let me be charged with resisting the police -- just so you stay out of a legitimate orphanage? I can't believe that." "You can't, huh?" She considered for a moment. "Well, would you believe kidnaping?" "Yola! Of all the ridiculous -- " "Or maybe child-molestation? My word against yours. Centers. Want to see my act?" Suspect running. Cut power in tunnel... Fisk knew how guilty that sudden flight made him seem. Why would he take Ormand's money, then break out of a routine police net? With a sgreaming elevenyear-old girl? Yola really could hang him. And she was brat enough to do it. He had once hoped -- no matter how weakly -- that his job would benefit his fellow man and make people happy. "You're pretty much of a sucker, aren't you," Yola said as the capsule drifted to a lifeless stop. "What are you doing in a racket like this?" "Just being a sucker," Fisk admitted, demoralized. "A MarsIF land salesman took me and Tm broke." She looked at him as she might have at a brokenwinged bird. "Well, we're caught anyway. It's nothing personal. Centers. Maybe I'd better go back to Ormand. He's the kind of bastard I don't mind scr -- " "Yola!" "Oh come off it, grandad -- you have a dirty mind. I mean I can always run away before he goes to Venus. So he'll get what he deserves -- nothing." Her spark of charity was as awkward as her ruthlessness. "But that's dishonest. If you don't intend to -- " "All right, sucker. It was only a silly notion to get you off the hook -- 'cause you're a decent sort under all that quaint naivete." She began tearing up her recently machined hairdo. "By the time they get this kidnapmolestation rap untangled, Ormand'll be on Venus, you'll be in the clink for trial and I'll be a ward of the court -- where maybe I can finagle a better deal for number one. Will that make you feel better?" Fisk saw that to attempt to reason with this gutter child was futile. The police were already applying another pressure-exit to the capsule. He would simply have to present his case and hope the police considered all aspects of the situation before doing anything irrevocable. Certainly he was not going to capitulate to this attempted extortion. "You're so cubical you're a tesseract," she exclaimed. "Look, Grandad, you're a nonsurvival type. If you'll just shut up and let me handle it I can -- " The capsule opened. "Crawl out in a hurry -- you're blocking traffic," a police voice called down the tube. Fisk's mind was still on Yola's offer to complicate things yet further. "Never -- " he cried to her. N aturally the police misunderstood. A sleepdart buzzed along the tube like a vengeful fly and pinked Fisk on the sweaty forehead -- and he found himself standing insecurely before a tall desk in the police station. Yola was beside him and Ormand had a chair nearby. The law could be devastatingly efficient when it snared the innocent. " -- serious charge. Kidnaping a minor from a private apartment," the lieutenant behind the desk said as the dart nullifier took effect. "Do you understand you have the right to consult counsel before making your statement?" "I'm sure I can explain everything without the necessity of counsel," Fisk said hastily, knowing that the police preferred dispatch. 'This girl -- " "What he means is," Yola interjected, "we were just going to the court to arrange for the adoption." "You wereT' Ormand asked, surprised and, oddly, not particularly pleased. "I thought -- " "We were not!" Fisk said. "I was taking her back to -- " Yola kicked him. "To fetch the adoption papers," she said. The lieutenant turned to Ormand. "What's this about adoption? You told us your daughter had been kidnapped." Ormand hesitated. "I -- ah -- maybe there was a misunderstanding. I'll just take her home now." He came up and grabbed Yola's arm. "Get your filthy paw off me!" she screamed automatically. "You can't tell me what to do, you child-beater!" The lieutenant made a note. "Child-beating." Fisk had a certain grudging sympathy for Ormand, who still thought a simple spanking or two would bring Yola into line. He would learn. The desk phone lighted. "For you," the lieutenant said to Fisk, turning the screen to face him. It was Johns. "What's this about your being arrested?" Johns demanded. "We run a respectable outfit here. You're fired. Centers." "But I've still got the child. The adoption can't -- Johns screwed up his face in perplexity. "Child? Adoption? I don't know what you're talking about. Have you been messing around with something on the side?" Fisk began to see what sort of a bag he was to be left holding. Naturally Johns wouldn't admit in the hearing of the police to dealing in black-market babies. "But -- " "Just get our eighty per cent to us pronto and we'll forget the embezzlement charge," Johns finished, clicking off. The policeman made another note, "tobezzlement." He looked up. "Are you sure you don't need an attorney?" "This is all a misunderstanding -- " Fisk felt hopeless. If he returned the checks to Ormand, Johns would charge him with embezzlement of company funds. If he kept them, Ormand had him on kidnaping. Both men were ruthless enough to hang the intermediary. And Yola had not yet even started on her child-molestation act. X somewhere," the lieutenant IF said thoughtfully. "Damn funny," He turned to Ormand. "This is a nonwhite child and you're a white spacer. She can't be your natural issue." "Sure I could," Yola said, keeping her options open. "My mother's black and I won't say what business she's in, but it's near the spaceport. She -- " "Yeah," Ormand agreed, manifestly not pleased but riding with the inevitable. "You know how it is." "How old are you, Ormand?" the lieutenant snapped. "Twenty-nine. That's why I'm retiring. You have to call it quits after thirty." "And you?" he said to Yola. "Eleven." The lieutenant turned back to Ormand. "And how old is the minimum for a space license?" "Twenty-one." Then Ormand saw the trap. "Well, maybe before I -- " "Looks like a black-market operation to me," the lieutenant said. "Five to two you're an ineligible parent. Single.with no permanent home -- and you know you can't take an underage child offplanct -- " "No, no!" Ormand cried, turning pale even for a spacer. "Sq you paid a fat check to a shyster outfit to sneak through a black baby I know damn well you weren't going to any court for adoption, whatever you told the child." Ormand fell back, whipped. Without seeming to take a breath the lieutenant pounced on Fisk, who had just started to relax. "And you. Centers. You represent that black-market racket, squeezing human blood out of both ends. You're selling an innocent ward of the state to an ineligible childbeater, embezzling on the side and maybe kidnaping, too -- " "Yeah," Yola said, enjoying this. "Don't forget child moles -- " "And to top it off the brat's a little bitch nobody can handle without a whip in one hand and a prayer book in the other." "Yeah," Fisk and Ormand agreed together. Yola glared. The lieutenant smiled knowledgeably. "In short, three fine fat fish on the line, suckers all, tugging the hooks into each other. As if I didn't have important cases to handle in my off-days! Now are you three going to work out your own squabble or you want me to do it for you?" Yola and Ormand both quailed, but Fisk had an inspiration. "Lieutenant, if you will permit us a moment to confer privately -- " "Sure, I'll wait," the officer said sardonically. "Thirty seconds." XJ. at the other two, pulling them into a huddle. He had never before attempted to manage people so boldly, but desperation gave him genius. "Ormand, if I get you off the hook and find you an age"Yeah -- yeah," Ormand agreed eagerly. "Keep the money. Just -- " "Yola, if I arrange a legitimate adoption, court-approved, so you'll never have to go back to -- " "Yeah -- " she echoed fervently. "Time," the lieutenant called. Fisk stepped to the desk. "As I was saying," he said so smoothly he surprised himself, "it was all a misunderstanding, v Mr. Ormand was looking for a wife to take to Venus -- he's going to be cultivating exotic Venus plants for export to Earth, you know -- and the agency thought he meant the phrase 'little girl' literally, not knowing the way spacers talk. When the two were introduced, the error was quickly apparent. He was naturally upset and so was the girl, as you can readily understand. In their confusion they exchanged some unkind words -- " "Yeah -- " Ormand muttered thoughtfully. "So Mr. Ormand may have said 'kidnaped' when he meant 'defrauded.' A natural error in the circumstance. Actually I was taking the child back to -- " Here Yola opened her mouth, but he elbowed her warningly. "To assist me in locating the correct subject. One of the sixteen-yearold girls just graduating from the orphanage, eager for the security of marriage. Young enough to be, uh, malleable. Who likes to travel -- even as far as Venus, where there would be no female competition for attention." "Yeah," Ormand said, his face lighting. The lieutenant nodded. "You wiggle pretty smooth for a worm in human clothing," he said approvingly. "But what about Miss Tantrums, here? You have to shut her up before she says something I might have to jail you for." Fisk could have done without such candor. "Once we have clarified Mr. Ormand's situation satisfactorily, I will -- " Here he paused to gird himself for the sacrifice. "I will take Yola to the court to -- to adopt her myself. I am, I believe, an eligible parent." Yola's mouth fell open. "Gee -- really?" she breathed ecstatically. "Yes, really," Fisk said, hoping he wouldn't regret this decision of expediency for the rest of his life. "I'm young enough to be your father, you know, and I've -- cr -- always wanted a black baby." # IF Specidl IfUroductory Offer good in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada H. G. Wells, science fiction -- often termed "future fiction" -- has fascinated alert minds. Not only has it entertained. It has predicted much of the far-ranging scientific and social change now upon us. authors of the genre continue to speculate, to predict, to tackle the prime problems already shaping tomorrow. Ecology -- space exploration -- nuclear promise and threat -- energy -- social evolution and biological revolution -- these and other fields are probed by imaginative stories uniquely exciting and rewarding. So let your fancy run free. Subscribe now! For U.S. and Canada, For United Kingdom, sand coupon to: sand coupon to: New York, N.Y. # London SW# #RD  # issues of IF for #  # issues of IF for # of IF for # of IF for # Enclosed find in payment for my subscription as checked above. Some Contributors Past and Present PiHil Anderson Isaac Asimov Alfred Bastar Jamas Blish Robert Bloch Ray Bradbury Arthur C. Clarke L Sprague da Camp Lester da! Ray Robert A. Hainlain Donald H. Menial J. R. Pierce Fradarik Pohl Robert S. Richardson Robert Silvarbarg Theodora Sturgeon A.E. Van Vogt Kurt Vonnagut Jr. He needed his tomorrows, but did they need him? T he pain persisted, but Lambert ignored it. It was cold in the plane, but it would be colder outside. He turned up his fur collar, put on his fur hat and walked down the aisle, carrying his light case clumsily with his double-thickness gloves. He felt a twinge in his side as he turned to the doorway and disembarked, down the steps, out onto the frosty runway. There was no wind, but he could feel the icy cold already trying to get at him. He smiled grimly. Oymyakon, Siberia. The coldest place in the world. The natives didn't seem to mind, bustling about cheerfully in their heavy furs. Lambert walked briskly toward the airport buildings, but before he had gone a dozen steps his face smarted and he wished he had worn a scarf. He quickened his pace and put his free hand over his mouth and nose. The terminal loomed close in the morning mist -- the strange "human-habitation fog" of Siberian cities. Below-zero weather ordinarily was accompanied by clear air and sunshine, but not here or at Yakutsk, where he had changed planes from Moscow. Was this the end of his journey? He hoped so. Seven time zones from Moscow, eight more from New York. He would have gone around the other way if it had been practical. Being here was an accomplishment in itself. Few Americans had visited this part of the world in wintertime. Or wanted to. Pushing through the door of the terminal, Lambert was greeted by a rush of warm air, then by an old friend who shook his hand, took his case and escorted him to the bar. "Welcome to the Pole of Cold." David Owen, a small wiry Welshman in Russian dress, grinned. "Sorry I couldn't arrange a record -- it's only fifty-eight below this morning. Fahrenheit." Lambert murmured greetings and thanks, felt the pain in his side and sipped at the drink already set up. He gasped as it burned his lips. Owen laughed. "That's Spirt. It's ninety-six per cent alcohol, doesn't freeze as easily as vodka. Popular around here." He chuckled, then turned serious. "How's the -- how's the health?" He looked concerned and Lambert turned away, sipped again, this time more carefully. "No better," he said softly. "How long?" asked Owen, eyeing him. Lambert realized he looked trim and fit on the surface. "I don't know," he admitted. "Pain's been about the same since the operation. They weren't too definite. Anyway, I didn't lose any time getting here." 'And I'm all ready for you," Owen announced with a look of pride. "Nothing I wouldn't do for an old friend -- even if he is a lousy capitalist." Lambert looked up sharply and Owen went on: "Don't worry, no one speaks English around here. But I surprised myself getting you in here. I haven't tried to get a real defector into Siberia before. But I'm grateful for those donations -- " Lambert sighed, said it was nothing. At least he hoped it was nothing -- that his financial aid to certain organizations to get him into Siberia would do no harm. Desperation required desperate remedies. He was dying of cancer. Besides, Owen was a real friend despite his affiliations. Lambert had once saved Owen's life in Hong Kong -- or had it . been the other way around? No matter. Now Owen was going to repay him immortal. windows were all frosted over except for the double-glassed windshield -- Lambert leaned back and tried to relax. He felt the dull pain again. He toyed with a sudden wish to dash out into the cold and freeze -- end the pain -- but the desire was weak. He hadn't yet tried suicide -- he scarcely knew why. He was not afraid. The reason had to be that he simply wanted to survive, deep down inside. He had never been a loser. Owen was chattering on, talking about his wife. No, it was Lambert's wife he was asking about. "She's not my wife any more, Davy," said Lambert. "Not for a long time. She came to see me in the hospital, though. 'Put your faith in doctors or in God -- not in a refrigerator,' she said. Now the doctors -- and perhaps Godhave given up. There remains the refrigerator." Lambert grunted. "She never did understand my recent political activities. 'You, a confirmed conservative, turned communist.' Deception, deception. I didn't deceive you, though." "I don't mind that sort of deception," said Owen. "Besides, this gives me a chance to prove some of my pet theories and maybe convert you -- as well as congeal you." Lambert shuddered at the Welshman's dark humor. "I ought to be open to conversion. The procedure we're oing to attempt isn'tas foolproof anywhere else. Of considered quite acceptable." Owen grinned. "It isn't exactly legal here, either." At Lambert's quick look of concern, he amended this. "It isn't criminal, but -- well -- IF let's just call it unauthorized." "I hope you're not putting yourself out for me." "Don't worry," said Owen. "The test of a good worker is whether he can get around rules when he can't follow them. The procedure is officially outlawed. But you are not a Soviet citizen -- " "Why is this particular application of cryogenics outlawed, anyway?" complained Lambert. "What business is it of any government what individuals want to do with their lives?" "We are all socialists now, remember -- the trend is evident even in your country. It is against society that some should be given -- by the state -- a longevity denied others. Remember the old arguments? What was the name of that club we belonged to? The Society for the Preservation of Experience -- "Bah. That's not what I want to preserve -- the law dispersed those fools like dry leaves. There was always more than a sprinkling of crackpots among them. I am somewhat of an authority on psychoceramics, having been exposed to the cancer-cure racket. But this is not just another cancer cure. It's the simple matter of preserving life until science discovers a real cancer cure. And that's just a matter of time." "Do you believe that?" asked Owen. "Certainly. And cryogenics for this purpose is going to be accepted eventually, wait and see. Only I can't wait." Owen peered out through the windshield. The fog had now lifted and they had emerged into bright sunshine. They were outside the limits of Oymyakon -- only a few .scattered old wooden buildings were visible here and there. Owen spoke a few words in Russian to the driver. Lambert sard, "Aren't we going to a hotel or -- " "To my home? No. I thought you didn't want any delay." "That's right. I don't." T he taxi pulled up before a low brick building, isolated in a field of snow. Lambert got out and experienced the cold again. He slapped his gloves to his face, while Owen talked to the driver. The taxi pulled away and they crunched across the squeaking snow. Lambert felt his nose was being frost-bitten. Maybe it didn't matter now, but... The building seemed not much warmer. This was a branch of the Permafrost Institute, Lambert learned. After a slight delay a young Russian technician took them to an elevator. They went down. And down. And down. They stopped at the bottom level, apparently the sub-subbasement, then emerged into a large open space, not a basement, but an underground cavern. At one side were a partitioned office and laboratory from which an older man appeared, greeted Owen, nodded to Lambert. Owen said, "This is the man I was telling you about -- Dr. Oschepkov." He spoke in Russian to the doctor, who looked at Lambert doubtfully, then spoke sharply to Owen, showing an irritation that transcended the language barrier. Lambert thought he understood some of the words, but he waited for Owen's translation. "He says it's illegal to freeze before clinical death. I told him you couldn't wait for that. He says he's only experimented on foxes." He turned back to Dr. Oschepkov, conducted a long argument, which Lambert didn't try to follow. He felt discouraged -- the pain was coming again and it was cold down here. The argument seemed interminable. Finally Owen turned to him, grinned. "It's all right. I have a bit of influence, you see. But you'll have to sign some papers." They entered the small office, went through a legal ceremony about which Lambert understood little and cared less. Then the doctor and the young technician bundled up in additional clothing and they all proceeded briskly across the cavern. Lambert found it hard to keep up, but was glad to be walking again. The exercise warmed him a little. The cave narrowed and became a tunnel. Dr. Oschepkov walked ahead with his assistant, talking in Russian, while Lambert and Owen brought up the rear. Somehow Lambert couldn't think of questions, despite his curiosity, but Owen filled him in satisfactorily. "This is a natural cave, although it has been expanded somewhat. We're five hundred feet down, right in the heart of the permafrost. Here anything frozen will stay frozen forever without any power expenditure. You needn't fear a power failure." Lambert said, "But permafrost isn't cold enough for this." "It's not cold enough to freeze you safely, but it's cold enough to keep you after the freezing process. This is the same cave where they found a mammoth not long ago." Owen grinned. "We're thinking of calling it 'Mammoth Cave.' " Lambert shuddered. He thought of the perpetually frozen earth all around him and wished he were already lying in it. To sleep... IF anui. Latest U.S. Government tests of all cigarettes show True is lower in both tar and nicotine than # of all otfW cigarettes sold. Think about it. Shouldn't your next cigarette be True? Regular and Menthol: I # mg. "tar'.' # mg. nicotine, Latest U.S. Government tests of all menthol cigarettes show True is lower Q . i n both tar and nicotine than # or all other menthols sold. Think about it. Shouldn't your next cigarette be True? Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined That Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health. Owen continued: 'They use the liquid nitrogen technique -- combined with some new methods -- to get you safely past the zone of crystallization. He's been successful with animals, mostly foxes. Frankly, I think he's happy to get a human subject, despite his demurrals. Soon this will be a common thing, he says, though now it's experimental. Don't worry -- they know their business. Lately the neighborhood fox farms have been getting some of their foxes back." This was encouraging, Lambert thought. They turned into a side corridor, which was even narrower and lower. It was getting colder. The walls were covered white in the dim glare of small lights hanging at intervals. The cold was intense and seemed to make the gloom close in. Like catacombs, Lambert thought. Well, why not? That was what these were. T hey came to the end of the lights, walked a few hundred yards farther by Oschepkov's flashlight. At the dead end was a gloomy room stacked with strange metal boxes, mostly small, though there was one large one. Lambert tried to shudder but was too cold. He succeeded only in making his teeth chatter. In the walls were many dark holes, their purpose obvious. Dr. Oschepkov said something in Russian. His assistant tipped the large box upright onto a dolly and trundled it across the room to some machinery. The technician and doctor busied themselves for a long time, setting up complicated tubing and wiring and occasionally seeming to curse and argue. Lambert wanted to ask Owen, Do they really know what they re doing? but his lips refused to open. Owen smiled reassuringly, but said nothing. Lambert huddled inside his inadequate winter clothing, shivering uncontrollably. God, it was cold, Lambert, waiting, thought only of how cold it was. The tiny pain was almost forgotten in the larger discomfort. Finally the doctor said something and Owen interpreted. "Strip, he says." Lambert could only shake his head and shiver wordlessly. He was powerless to answer, even to move. Dr. Oschepkov spoke in Russian and Owen translated. "He says, 'Do you want to be comfortable -- or do you want to awaken?' Cheer up, it won't be long now." With shaking fingers Lambert tried to comply, but he had to be helped by Owen and the doctor. Finally he stood naked, burning with cold, blind to any other thought but icy, icy, cold, cold, cold. He could not mpve. He saw hands grasp him but he could not feel them. They moved him into the box. He stood there freezing, freezing, and they sprayed him with shocking snow. The door shut and blackness closed in. From somewhere came a clanging, a ringing. Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky... Through the cold and the pain he felt the box fill up. Cold. Cold. A little pain -- but this was replaced by cold. The cold seemed less. The pain was gone. So was the cold. Peace. Ring in the thousand years of peace... H e partially awoke to the sound of bells again. Church bells, they sounded like. Church bells in Siberia? No, this was not Siberia -- couldn't be. He felt warm. He lay back and slept again. He dreamed he was in school, reciting a poem, and he knew all the lines. Ring out wild bells, to the wild sky, the flying cloud, the frosty light; the year is dying in the night; ring out wild bells and let him die... Die? His thoughts were troubled, but there was peace. He skipped to Ring out old shapes of foul disease... felt a pain and opened his eyes. He was in a hospital bed, he saw. He lay perfectly at ease and when he wanted to turn, something in the bed helped him. Tubes and wires seemed to be attached to his body beneath the soft blanket that covered him. The ceiling was of restful mixed colors and strange patterns, as was the rest of the interesting room, filled with odd furniture. Even his bed was barely recognizable as a bed. Suddenly his memory came back with a rush. With knowledge came a nagging pain in his side, small but persistent. He had been revived from the freezer, but had not been operated on as yet. His trip had been seccessful. He was in the future. He lay back, content with that knowledge. Then he wanted to know more and looked around for a button to push, a bell to ring -- something. "Nurse -- doctor -- " he croaked. What was "doctor" in Russian? He couldn't remember. He groaned as the pain hit him. The door opened and a darkhaired, not unhandsome woman in tasteful blue and white uniform, entered. "I am Dr. Ivanova." She smiled. "You want something?" Lambert stared admiringly. "You're Russian." He sighed. "But you speak English. If I am still in Siberia, what are those bells I hear? They sound like church bells." IF Her smile vanished, but friendliness remained in her dark eyes. "I speak English because you called for 'nurse' and 'doctor' in English. I am Dr. Irina Ivanova, Director of the Petrograd Hospital and Medical Museum. And you are no longer in Siberia. This is Petrograd -- it is Sunday and those are church bells you hear." Lambert was puzzled. "Did you say, Petrograd? Not Leningrad? Am I in the past or the future -- or what? I last remember being in Oymyakon, Siberia, in -- ah -- nineteen-seventy-six. I'm an American, my name is Charles Lambert and I froze to death. I mean -- " He suddenly broke off as he felt a sharp pain in his side. "When are you going to operate?" She frowned. "Nineteen-;seventysix? This is two thousand sixtyeight. Nearly a hundred years. Don't you think we have had time enough to have gotten rid of your cult of Lenin? No, we didn't have a revolution. The Soviet Union has always had all the forms of democracy. All we had to do was vote out the Party. Not any easy task, I admit." She smiled again. "This is the future, then," said Lambert. "You've made changes -- good. But -- that's not what I'm primarily concerned about. A huadred years -- medical science must have advanced greatly. Have you found the cure for cancer?" He watched her face closely. "Of course," she said. "We have eliminated all major diseases. Occasionally a new disease comes up and takes a few months or years to eradicate. Here at the museum we study the old diseases to make sure they do not recur. The reason you are here now is that this is one of the few places that has the facilities to care for you." J hc and suspicion, again asked, "When will you operate? It's not that I can't stand it, but -- "We have already operated. Several times. The disease keeps spreading." She shook her head sadly. "We have made you as comfortable as possible. There is nothing else we can do." Lambert leaped out of bed in alarm. He found it easy as the bed helped him. He disconnected the attachments. He found himself standing up, clad in close-fitting pajamas of soft material. He felt fit, then noticed his toes were missing, gasped, forgot what he was going to say. Dr. Ivanova said, "We can replace your extremities easily. They wereamaged in freezing." Lambert remembered his protest. "But you can't cure my cancer?" "I am sorry. You have only a few weeks to live -- hardly more than when we started." "You can't cure me? Then refreeze me!" "There are no facilities," said Dr. Ivanova; No facilities? This was a cruel blow, one he had not expected. It was not a refusal, but a statement of fact that allowed no argument. Yet he argued. "No facilities? Don't you do any freezing? Don't you practice cryogenics?" "Freezing is wrong," she said flatly... "Such an application of cryogenics is against nature, against evolution, against eugenics -- " "Against God?" Lambert asked bitterly, slumping down into a bedside chair, its deep cushions enveloping him. She frowned. "We have freedom of religion here -- we are not bigots. Atheism is acceptable." She shook her head. "No, it is reason that this form of cryogenics is against. Preserving the unfit, keeping human discards, saving obsolete diseases for posterity. Thank God you are one of the last of the trespassers. Not many are found these days." "How did you find me?" asked Lambert, curious in spite of his despair. "The underground city of Oymyakon expanded into your forgotten tunnel," she explained. "Luckily you were not crushed. Apparently records were lost or concealed, maps were altered and personnel scattered, so that the existence of the tunnel was not known until the mole-dozers broke through. They found some inferior fur-foxes in the cave, but no human survivors other than you." "Were there only a few successful freezers?" he asked. in a voice filled with contempt. "Your century was a very selfish one. You tried to use up all natural resources, polluted the Earth irreversibly, saddled the future with your impossible debts and, not content with that, you wanted to impose on your children the care of your corrupt bodies.' She modified her tone, apparently remembering that he was a sick man. "But now there are only about a hundred trespassers left undiscovered, This is not an actual count -- we don't really know how many there are or where they are -- it is only a computer estimate. There once was a huge number. Would you like to know what happened to them? Or would you rather not?" she asked coldly. "I want to know," said Lambert hopelessly. "They died, those who were not IF already dead. Preserving a dead body is useless, of course. When the brain dies, who can recreate it?" "I know that," said Lambert. "But why did the others die? Didn't the machinery function?" "Yes, most of the time, even in early experimental efforts like yours. Later efforts were quite successful. Too much so. As I war." "Tell me about the war," Lambert asked. "Which one?" "The one that killed off the freezers." "Oh, they all did, in one way or another," she answered. "You can imagine how. Some were damaged by neglect, constant relocation, bombs. Failure of power killed many -- you were relatively safe in your permafrost. Let me tell you about an interesting incident. For a time there was a serious food shortage -- you are not listening. No, it was not cannibalism on our part. There is a certain sect in India -- one of the famine areas -- that does not bury or burn its dead, but consumes them, so to speak. We traded -- for other products of the soil." Lambert felt sick. Dr. Ivanova snapped, "Well, what would you have? Should the living die so that the dead may live? That is what is wrong with your whole trespasser philosophy you seek to displace your own children. You are not fit to survive -- in more ways than one." With an effort she resumed her calm history. "There was a series of wars. The final one was a war of the sciences', "War of the sciences?" She nodded. "Science against science. For thousands of years science has been helping both sides in wars. For hundreds of years some people have been predicting that one day science would fight its own war against its enemies. They didn't think of the logical counterpart to the long succession of previous wars. Tribe against tribe, nation against nation, religion against religion, economic philosophy against economic philosophy. They failed to predict a war between different scientific viewpoints. You may have guessed that this war included those who believed in immortality via cryogenics and those who put their faith in eugenics. It was finally settled by a breakthrough in eugenics that made human immortality not only useless but anti-progress. Freezing was forbidden and the frozen were awakened -- those who were left. Few survived this period. Feeling ran high against the trespassers." d the chair, which adjusted itself to his new position. "I appreciate all this. I expected to find radical changes; What I can't understand is that you haven't a cure for cancer." "Oh, but we have eliminated cancer." "But you can't cure me. I don't get it. Am I a special case?" "No, yours is an ordinary form, common in your time. We have all the past medical records here in the museum. You may be assured that we have done all that doctors in your time and some years beyond could have done -- and with much less difficulty. We have better instruments and techniques. But we can't do anything to eliminate your cancer without eliminating you. We have eliminated cancer through eugenics. Don't you understand what eugenics is?" Lambert closed his eyes, groaned. "Then I froze myself for nothing." "That is true," she said with sympathy. "Would you like to hear about the breakthrough in eugenics?" "Yes," he lied. "The real purpose of eugenics is not to create a super-race but to fight degeneration, lliere has always been resistance to eugenics, because of humanitarian considerations. We could not breed humans like animals, because this involved destruction of the unfit or refusing them reproduction rights. The other,' much greater barrier to human eugenics was in the slowness of human generations. What could be accomplished in less than ten thousand years? But if one reduced the generation's span to a half-day the same result could be obtained in a year -- one tenthousandth of the time." Lambert was interested in spite of himself. "You mean you can speed up human growth? To a half-day? That is unbelievable." She smiled. "Perhaps you have heard of lower sea animals that have two cycles of existence? The hydra stage of the jellyfish, for example, produces an offspring of an entirely different form, the medusa stage, which in turn breeds back to the original.' That is alternation of generations. We have done this with humans -- that is the breakthrough in eugenics." "Do you breed humans in the laboratory?" he asked with distaste. "Not humans. An alternate form we call portans, that is, 'carriers.' The fertilized ovum -- IF in an artificial environment and under certain treatment -- splits, not into connected cells that develop into an adult human, but into many individual cells having a separate existence of their own. This splitting goes on until there medium. Then the second innovation comes into play -- the artificial selection. Thousands of tests reveal latent defects in each portan, make an accurate prediction of what each one of these cells would develop into if allowed to grow into an adult human." She paused to see if he was following, then: "The essence of quality control is rejection. Here it happens on a microscopic level, far from humanitarian considerations. One portan is selected; the selected portan is placed in another medium, allowed to develop further and is then broken up into portans again. And so the process goes on, a process more of purification than of evolution. "After many generations, the final ovum is transplanted and allowed to develop normally. Between ' generations of normal humans, there might be a thousand microscopic generations. That is the usual desired interval for the removal of defects from any combination. Can you see now how we have eliminated cancer? By elinriinating the cancer-prone strains through selection." "I see," Lambert said glumly. He rose and the chair helped him to get up. He paced the floor shakily. The doctor turned to leave, paused by the door. bassador Hotel, Los Angeles, California. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. Featured, speakers: Gene Roddenberry, creator of Star Trek; Ray Bradbury, author of Fahrenheit #, The Illustrated Man, The Martian Chronicles; Robert Bloclh author of Psycho, The House That Dripped Blood; Kirk Alyn, the "Superman" and Forrest J. Ackerman, editor Famous Monsters of Filmland. Highlights: screenings of film classics, exhibits, panels, banquet. For information: Fantasy Film Fans International, Box #, Los Angeles, California #. # ' "The best we can do for you is to make your dying fairly comfortable. You may be up and about and conscious for only a few weeks more. Until then you have a choice." Lambert looked dully at her. "Choice?" "We still believe in freedom of choice even for the trespasser. Come with me." Outside the door was not a corridor but an open-air terrace used as a means of entrance. A walk led along it in both directions, and opposite the door was a low parapet. The air was balmy -- it must be summer in Petrograd. Lambert hobbled to the parapet, looked out across a magic city. No other words could describe it. It was like an air view of Disneyland, seen through a kaleidoscope. Mingled together were skyscrapers and fantastic Byzantine turrets and beyond these the Neva sparkled in the summer air. He looked down -- he was near the summit of a tall building, of a height beyond estimation, the stepped terrace next beneath him a hundred feet below. It was deserted, as was the terrace he was on -- he imagined the hospital was not much used these days. From far below he again heard the sound of church bells. Out there was a whole new world where he did not belong. He was out of place here. But it was a triumph of a sort. He was here, where he was not supposed to be -- like man on the airless moon. He had straddled centuries and was one of the few surviving freezers or trespassers, as Dr. Ivanova had called them. A record of what he had done would be kept here in the museum, to be added to man's total knowledge -- and one day Dr. Ivanova's perfectly healthy humans might want to do what he had done. Not to saddle future generations with their problems and hangups, but to add to the wealth of human experience. He suddenly felt a little wealthier for being here. The slight feeling of satisfaction was spoiled the the recurrence of pain, sharper now. The doctor had said something about a choice. He turned to ask her about it, but she was gone. What choice? He leaned weakly on the parapet, squinted out at the sunlit city. Suddenly he looked down. He smiled -- and all at once he felt right about being here. He thought, Fm the one whos giving you a choice -- what you re giving me is what I always had... And abruptly it didn't matter what use either of them made of what each had been given.  IF A question to ponder when you have all the time there is: what do you do with it? G abriel solar paused at the point in the trail where the land momentarily bulged like a knot on the trunk of a tree. There it was possible to see beyond the underbrush and foliage to where the village of Almada nestled like a child asleep between the cold blue blanket of the ocean and the dark wrinkled mattress of the hills. Gabriel peered carefully at the village, shading his eyes against the glare of the setting sun. But it was impossible to see more than a vague outline of misty streets and stores and houses and yards -- and this was not enough. The sky was still bright, but the land was dark and he could not make out the brown adobe box of his own home. But even if he had been able to see the house -- what then? He could not see through the walls -- he could noi tell what she was doing now. Had she stopped crying? Was she drinking now, or sleeping, rocking, or smiling and laughing? He could not know. Turning, he continued up the trail toward the top of the hill. When he liad finished at the installation he would return to his wife, to Maria, and then he would know. But not until then. The trail was difficult here. The path swooped down abruptly and it was no longer possible to see the village. Finally the land began to rise again. Then there was a sharp right turn, and the trees and underbrush were gone and the trail had reached its end. Years before this land had belonged to the Finca family. Gabriel was not a young man -- he was nearly fifty -- and he could clearly remember the first revolution twenty years ago, when the land had been taken from the last of the Fincas and divided among thevarious smaller landowners of Almada. These people had then moved their families here to the top of the hill, building small houses and even a general store. But now these houses were gone, too, victims of the second revolution five years ago, and now the land belonged to nobody. It belonged to the government and to the foreigners who were the friends of the government. They had constructed the installation here at the top of the hill three years ;ago. None of this had ever affected Gabriel, until the day when Dr. Berg had come to Perez's cantina and given Gabriel the job. The House Gabriel lived in with his wife Maria and her son Juan was also the house where his father had lived before him and, as a fisherman, he was not a member of any of the various political factions. Until six months ago he had never in his life stood here at the end of the trail at the summit of the hill. The installation was a huge squat concrete structure, as unassailable in appearance as a Spanish fortress. Gabriel was the only villager who had even been inside its walls. Most of the men who worked there were foreigners like Dr. Berg and Dr. Goddard, arid those who were not foreign were the men from the north who served as janitors and cooks and sometimes as special policemen. They were as alien to Gabriel as Dr. Berg, who spoke a language he did not understand. Gabriel did not know why men were brought from as far away as a thousand miles to work at jobs that any villager could just as easily have performed, but neither could he understand why Dr.  Berg had given him the job. IF D r. berg had come to Perez's cantina one afternoon. A tall gaunt man with very thick black eyebrows and a slick white coat loosely buttoned across his chest, he had asked Perez, "Who is the most trustworthy man you know?" Perez had not been given a chance to answer. Gabriel, who had not had a good day in his boat and who was a little drunk, had replied instead, "I am the most trustworthy man in this whole village." "Good." Dr. Berg had turned upon him and Gabriel had been very frightened by this strangelooking man. "Then report to the installation tomorrow morning at eight o'clock and ask for Dr. Berg. I have a job for you." "Are you certain?" Gabriel had asked. "Of course. The pay is quite decent -- don't worry about that. As long as you are trustworthy." "I am." "Your name, please." "Gabriel Solar," he had said, stammering. Then ashamed of showing his fear before this powerful-looking foreigner, he had stood very erect and looked directly into the man's eyes. "I shall be expecting you," Dr. Berg had said. That had been six months ago and each day since then (including Sundays) Gabriel had followed the twisting path up the face of the hill to the installation gate. He left his house every morning at precisely seven-thirty and he returned at six o'clock. Occasionally Dr. Berg would ask him to come back to the installation later in the evening and today was one of those days. It was now nearly eight o'clock and the last faint rays of the declining sun pecked at the back of Gabriel's neck as he approached the guards' booth, which stood beside the gate. The guard knew him. He was a foreigner decked out in a shiny blue uniform with three horizontal silver stripes and a white hat with a polished bill. He nodded at Gabriel, went into his booth and touched the button that caused the gate to rise briefly into the air. Gabriel stepped past the open gate and into the installation. This was the only entrance through the high wire fence that circled the installation like a tarnished necklace. Sharp bristling barbs of wire were evenly spaced along the uppermost strand of the fence. Three weeks ago a young girl picnicking nearby with her family had climbed a tree and placed the paln of her hand against the barbed wire. She had screamed and fallen out of the tree. The grass was soft and she had landed on her feet, but her hand had been burned. Gabriel understood why this had occurred -- there was heat electricity, running through the wire. Dr. Berg had told him, but Dr. Berg had also warned him that to discuss anything at all about the installation in the village would be as great a dishonor as the sin of a priest who reveals the details of a man's confession. Gabriel had accepted this, but he did not like the little girl's being hurt and he felt guilty. Once he was inside the installation, Gabriel went immediately to Dr. Berg's office. It was located in a small building set apart from the main structure. The office was small, cluttered and furnished with a bare iron cot and two long wooden benches heaped with instruments and tools. Several large wire cages were on a shelf that ran the length of one wall. These cages were presently empty except for one in which a long rat scampered and ran, occasionally flopping over on his back and kicking his legs high in the air. Gabriel had never seen a rat acting so before. Dr. Berg was alone. He sto#d beside one of the wooden benches and, hearing Gabriel enter the room, said, "We'll have to wait for Dr. Goddard." "Yes," Gabriel said. H e crossed the room to the cage where the rat was penned and poked a finger through the wires. The rat stopped his running and came to investigate, sniffing at Gabriel's finger, then nibbling. Gabriel was not afraid that the rat would try to bite him. They were good friends. The rat was named Poppa. "Hungry, Poppa? Smell the food on my finger? Playing so hard makes you very hungry." "Gabriel," said Dr. Berg. "Yes?" He removed his finger from the cage and turned his back on the rat. "What's this I hear about Jenkins? Is it true?" Gabriel was not surprised that Dr. Berg knew. He always seemed to know everything about anything. So why not this as well? "Yes," he said. "And your son?" "Maria's son. By Joseph, who drowned in the storm." "I see." Dr. Berg crossed the room, opened the door and peered out at the darkness beyond. Then he came back and looked at his watch. "I'm afraid they'll catch Maria's son. These hills -- there's no place he can hide for long." "No," Gabriel said. "He did a foolish thing." "Do you know why?" Gabriel shrugged. He placed his IF hands together in front of his waist and looked down at the clasped fingers. "Because he was afraid of me." He knew he could never lie to Dr. Berg. "He hated me." "And your wife?" "She feels the same way." "And you can't think of anything to tell her?" "No." Dr. Berg sighed deeply. "Neither can I." There had been no force behind his questions, no interest or curiosity. He had seemed to be asking them because after he had begun he had seen no way to stop. "It's a miracle Dr. Goddard hasn't heard," he said. "Damn him." Gabriel went over to one of the wooden benches where there was a bare space and sat down. He sat so that he could watch Poppa as the rat played in his cage. He began to think about his trouble. It had not begun with the boy, but that had been the worst. Not the boy who was his wife's son, but the other boy, Manuel, whose mother he did not know. Gabriel had been bringing in his boat after an afternoon's fishing on a day when Dr. Berg had sent him home early. The whole happening came back to him as if it were now -- as if he had not lived since that day. H e still liked to fish and went out whenever he could. He knew his work with Dr. Berg would not last forever and eventually he would have to return to the sea. He had not done well this day and he was angry at himself. As he was pulling the boat ashore he heard the cries coming from farther down the beach and knew instantly what they meant. He had heard such cries before in his life and twice he had seen the bloated rotting bodfes that wei washed ashore afterward by the strong currents. This time he ran toward the sounds and then he was there -- and was not. He did not feel the freezing waters covering his body until his head was fully submerged and he was swimming toward the shattered light of the sun. The boy had strayed far from shore, Gabriel poked his head above the water, looked and saw the hands clawing at the air as if to grasp and hold it. Then the hands were gone, and when Gabriel reached that place the boy, too, was gone. Gabriel dived. Once and again. The second time he stayed down a long time, dropping all the way to the bottom, feeling the coldness there like a numbing heat, like sunburn, and then he saw the boy. Manuel. Whose name had been cried on the shore. He was lying on the bottom, his hands raised toward the distant surface, his black hair streaming above his head like strands of ocean algae. His eyes were open and as Gabriel drew near he saw that Manuel's mouth was open as well. He took the boy underneath the arms and climbed slowly toward the surface. Then he was paddling toward shore, towing Manuel, keeping the boy's head above the level of the waves. The boy was not breathing. The people on the beach -- and many had been drawn to the spot by the mother's cries -- backed away. He stretched the boy out on the sand and stood over him. An old woman, her face nearly hidden by a tattered shawl, came close and screamed a word in his face. He lifted his head and looked at the people, seeing the face of his wife's son among them. The people stared fearlessly back at him, but not a one of them moved. "Breathe into him," Gabriel said. "Somebody must breathe into him." "TVflcAo," said the old woman, who had stepped back into the crowd. "TVacio!" she screamed. The boy's mother ran forward. "Do not touch him. You are death. You have killed my son." Dropping to her knees, her dress already stained by the wet sand, she pulled her son tightly to her bosom. Seawater spurted from between the boy's open lips, splashing his mother's throat. She caressed his hair and face. She said much more to Gabriel, muttering, murmuring, suddenly shouting. Gabriel did not know what to do. He simply stood there beside the water, oblivious to the woman, to all of them except Juan, Maria's son, but Juan said nothing. He stared back at his mother's husband and his lips moved. But if any sound came from between them it was lost beneath the crash of the surf and the screams of the mother. Gabriel knew what it was. The final time he had gone down after the boy he had stayed underwater for fifteen minutes. Standing on the beach, looking at Juan, he remembered how his breath had grown shorter and shorter and his chest become filled with pain. He had kept going, desperately searching the bottom -- and then the pain had gone. He had felt fine and he had continued to search, not breathing after that, not needing to breathe. And when he had cracked the surface and seen the glowing light of day he had taken one breath -- a small one. He had not needed more. Fifteen minutes. For a quarter of an hour he had lived withou" air. iiAM I late?" Dr. Goddard was an awkward man whose white coat barely IF concealed the immensity of his belly. He had entered the room while Gabriel had been thinking and now he had gone to the cage, opened it, caught and removed the rat. He held Poppa cautiously in his hands. Dr. Berg came over to him. "I assume you were busy?" "Administration," said Dr. Goddard. "Couldn't get away." He jerked his head at Gabriel. "Does he have to be here?" "I want him." said Dr. Berg. "For your sake I hope he's too stupid to understand what he sees." "It doesn't matter," Dr. Berg said. "Gabriel can be trusted." "No one can be trusted too far." Dr. Goddard pressed Poppa against his chest. "Gabriel -- get us the icepick." Gabriel glanced up at Dr. Berg, who nodded slightly. Gabriel stood up, went to the other bench and found the icepick hidden beneath a wad of used paper towels and a torn chart that contained numbers and letters neatly arranged in a series of boxes. Dr. Goddard was having trouble with Poppa and he shouted at Gabriel to hurry. Crossing the room, Gabriel held the pick cautiously in one hand as though it were alive and might turn suddenly and try to bite him. The top of the pick was bright and clean. The handle was made of dark hardwood. Gabriel handed the pick to Dr. Goddard. "Good," said Dr. Goddard, puffing as though suddenly exhausted. "Now take this damn thing before it bites me." Gabriel took Poppa carefully from the doctor and the rat stopped squirming, relaxed and lay still. Gabriel whispered, "Ah Poppa, ah baby, it is fine -- everything is fine." He stroked the top of the rat's head with the tip of his thumb, smoothing back the soft fur. Closing its eyes, the rat pretended to sleep. The head and forepaws extended beyond Gabriel's hands while the tail dangled loosely. "I suppose there's no reason to wait," said Dr. Goddard. "It's been forty'five minutes since the injection. I expected you sooner." Dr. Berg's hands were deep inside his trouser pockets. He rocked evenly on the balls of his feet. His bearing was firm and relaxed, like that of a young priest confident of his faith. "Proceed. This part of the experiment is all yours." "Of course," said Goddard, who gripped the icepick in his right hand, holding it in the palm of his hand while holding the base of the blade between thumb and forefinger. At a signal from Dr. Berg, Gabriel raised the rat so that its head was even with the tip of the pick. Goddard thrust the pick into the rat's left eye. Poppa was silent but his whole body suddenly twitched from the whiskers to the tail. Goddard withdrew the pick. A trickle of blood oozed from the open socket of the eye. The blood flowed slowly down tle rat's narrow face, painting the snout and whiskers. It was followed by a sudden rush of thick gray matter. "Put it back," said Dr. Goddard. He tossed the pick at the nearest bench, but missed. The pick clattered to the concrete floor. "Shouldn't be long," Dr. Berg said. "No," said Goddard. "Ten minutes. Fifteen." Puffing like a frightened dog, he hurried to the door and opened it. Sticking his head outside, he gasped for air. Dr. Berg turned his eyes toward the floor. Waiting silently beside the rat's cage, the three men resembled mourners at a furneral. They watched the rat's body attentively, as if they expected it to move. After ten minutes it did move. A rear leg began to quiver. The puncture wound in the eye socket had closed. The dry caked blood around the eye made observation difficult, but Gabriel was certain that Poppa was watching him from behind the blood. Dr. Goddard pressed his face tightly against the cage. His chin and lips were shiny with perspiration. Dr. Berg rocked on his feet, saying nothing. "It's working," Goddard said. "The beast is alive." "Wait," said Dr. Berg. Another minute passed while the men waited. The rat began to move, its tail slapping the bottom of the cage, stirring the dust. One whisker briefly shook like a leaf brushed by the wind. Then the rat rolled to its feet and stood. It walked steadily to its water dish and, leaning over, drank. "Well," Dr. Goddard said. His face was wet and his hands shook as he lifted them to his face. "I can't believe -- " "You ought to have more faith in your work," Dr. Berg said. blood, working relentlessly with moistened paws, the rat went to its nest, a pile of sawdust and tom cloth in a far corner of the cage, and curled up to sleep, burying its head deep in the folds of the nest. The three men walked away to stand near the door. Both Doctors had removed their lab coats. Dr. Goddard placed a hand on the doorknob. "We will resume the injections tomorrow morning," .he said. "At the usual intervals. I have been conIF sidering. Perhaps next time we will use poison. What do you think, Alfred?" "That would be fine," Dr. Berg said evenly. "Good, good -- poison it will be, then." Goddard had regained his usual composure. His hands and face were dry but pale. He said, "I must say you surprise me, Alfred. What's happened to you? I can't help wondering. Why no more demands that we press forward? Why no more urging that we skip the preliminary experiments? Have you finally come to accept my methods?" "Yes," Dr. Berg Vaid. "I have." "Well, that's good. You realize that our work is the most important in the entire history of the human race. We don't dare hurry matters and risk possible failure. Now we have this animal and that is fine. Perhaps he will live forever. Perhaps not. At the moment it looks very good." "Yes," Dr. Berg said. "It does look very promising." Goddard was grinning, his teeth glistening brightly. "Let me tell you, Alfred. In six months, nine months, who knows? Surely in not more than a year we will find ourselves a man who wishes to assist us in our work. Perhaps a convict. One who has been sentenced to die. In return we will get his government to commute his sentence to life imprisonment. In the event that our experiments are successful, of course." "Of course," Dr. Berg said. "That would be most ironic." Dr. Goddard suddenly shook his head, as though recalling a detail of some significance. Gradually and smile faded from his lips. He asked, "Is something wrong Alfred? I don't understand you. The way you act one might think we had failed." "No," Dr. Berg said. "I'm simply tired. You'll have to forgive me, Herman." "Oh, I do, I do." Goddard was grinning again. "I fully understand. Good night, Alfred." "Good night." Then Dr. Berg and Gabriel were alone in the room... Except for Poppa. But Poppa was sleeping. "The fat bastard," said Dr. Berg. He was not referring to Poppa, Gabriel knew. G abriel sat on the end of the bench, his white work shirt unfastened and bunched loosely at his waist. He stared down at his sandaled feet, nothing the clogg dirt that lay thick beneath his neatly trimmed toenails. "He doesn't know," Dr. Berg said, '"ir he paid any attention to anyone besides himself Tm sure he would have guessed by now. He would have heard about you." "And Juan?" "About Juan, too," Dr. Berg said. He paused for a moment and scratched his cheeks. He shaved not more than once every four 'days and today was not one of those days. "Nothing else has happened?" he asked "You haven't been involved in another accident?" "No," Gabriel said. Such involvements had happened twice before and he had told Dr. Berg both times, because at that time he had not yet fully understood what he had become. The first time he had been rummaging through a box of old clothes, his hands buried deeply in the moldy garmets, when he had felt a sharp stinging sensation at the tip of one finger. He had jerked out his hands and flipped contents. With a stick he had dug through the garmets until the scorpion lay revealed. He killed the beast with the stick. Maria had been with him at the time. Juan had been away, fishing, and he had not seen that the swelling never came. Maria had said that it was good fortune, that Gabriel must have been mistaken about the sting, but he had seen in her eyes that she had not believed her own words. "No more cuts or scrapes or bruises?" asked Dr. Berg. "None," Gabriel said. The cut had occurred a week after the scorpion sting. Juan had been home this time and Gabriel and the boy had been seated at the Wooden table in the main room, listening to Maria preparing cornbread in the kitchen. Gabriel had been playing with a knife, flipping it into the air and catching it by the hilt. Sometimes he would let it turn only once, then reach out and catch it. At other times he would allow it to go around twice, then grab it near the tabletop. It was only a small pocketknife with two blades a few inches long, one at each end, but it was the knife Gabriel used in his boat and he kept it very sharp. "yVo." Juan had seen. Listening to Maria, his mind far away, Gabriel had lost the rhythm of the knife. He had grabbed it by the blade and it had sliced easily through his palm. He had screamed, dropping the knife. Maria had run in, her face white. Gabriel had displayed his hand. The cut had shown long and white, the skin lying in folds around the wound. But there had been IF no blood. Not a solitary drop. Maria had uttered a word of her people: "'"'Nacho Witch. "You feel fine?" Dr. Berg asked. "Yes," Gabriel said. "But something is bothering you. I can tell. Is it your son?" "Maria's son," Gabriel said. "Do you know why he killed Jenkins?" This time there was concern in Dr. Berg's voice, but it was not concern for the boy or for Gabriel either. For whom? For what? "Because of you," Gabriel said. "Because he knew I came here and he thought it was you who had turned me into a thing that does not need to breathe air. Or is stung by a scorpion without harm. Or can be cut by a knife and does not bleed. He would have killed you. Dr. Berg, but he did not know one of you from the other, so when he saw this other man -- Jenkins -- coming away from the cantina he caught him and he killed him." "But he has been in trouble before, hasn't he?" Dr. Berg seemed to know everything, so Gabriel was not surprised. A man who could make another into what Gabriel had become -- what was the difference between this man and a god? "Yes, he has often been in trouble before. Ever since I can remember. The police -- yes." "And he did take Dr. Jenkins' money?" "That was because he was afraid. He wanted to leave. To run away." "Then what makes you think this has anything to do with you, Gabriel? How do you know the boy did not simply kill and rob because he wanted to kill and rob? It was his nature. There are few men in your village worth robbing. Dr. Jenkins should not have gone there. He had been warned." "But you came -- to find me -- at Perez's cantina." "I can handle myself, Gabriel. And I seldom drink." T here was no point to this. Gabriel raised his hands and sighed. Dr. Berg would never understand about Juan, because it was not the boy who truly mattdted. It was the mother. Maria was an Indian and she held many of the old superstitions -- learned from her mother -- as truths. Gabriel could not forget the look on her face when he had come back from the beach that day -- when Manuel had drowned -- his clothes soaked and clinging to his body like skin. Her eyes had been wide as saucers and her mouth had hung open, the teeth exposed. Someone had been there ahead of him and told her, and she was now desperately afraid of him. Tonight, after the police had come looking for Juan, it had even been worse. Maria had cried. He had never known her to cry this way before. It had not been the grief in her tears that had frightened him -- for her son was dead and she knew it -- it had been her own fear. "I must go back to the installation," he had said. And when he had left he had stood outside the door and listened and had heard her voice change. She had continued to cry for her son, but her fear had .vanished. "Roll up your sleeve, Gabriel. We ought to get this done so we can get you home." "Yes, Dr. Berg." Gabriel rolled his sleeve steadily up his arm until the bulk of his shoulder lay exposed. His fingers added further dirt to the already soiled fabric of the shirt. The skin beneath was pale white. Before, in the days when he had not yet come to work for Dr. Berg, when he had gone with the boats all summer, his skin had gotten to be as dark as Maria's. But now he had tittle time to spend in the sun and he was as pale and white as a sheet. Dr. Berg returned with the needle. Gabriel did not turn away or flinch when Dr. Berg inserted the point of the needle beneath the skin of his bicep. A pale pink fluid entered his veins. At first Gabriel had not liked the needle, but after six months it no longer frightened him. "There," said Dr. Berg, patting the tiny wound with a wad of cotton. "That will be the end of it." "That is all?" Gabriel said. "That is all. I think we could have stopped a month ago. Fm sure of it. With the animals, the rat, the effect has never left. In that regard Dr. Goddard has been most helpful." "There will be no more shots?" "No. Unless something unexpected occurs. But you must continue to come here every day. You must not act as though anything abnormal has occurred. We do not want Dr. Goddard to suspect, do we?" "No." "Fine. Splendid." Dr. Berg's teeth showed like the claws of a hawk. "But you must remember to tell me everything." Gabriel said that he understood. Getting to his feet, he nodded to the doctor and then went silently and swiftly to the door. He had forgotten to roll down his sleeve and the cloth rode high against the ghostly pale flesh of his shoulder. Dr. Berg said nothing as Gabriel went out. IF T he dirt path twisted jaggedly down the hill, splitting the high brown grass of summer into separate worlds. In darkness now, Gabriel stepped cautiously down the path, for it was seldom used and many thick vines lay draped across it. There was no light here, except for that afforded by the moon and stars. A wind came running down from the hills above. Brisk and cool, it grazed the bare flesh of his neck, whipped his hair and made him feel clean and alive. On the outside. Inside he wanted only to hurry, to run With the wind, for he would not feel secure until he reached home. But he was afraid to run. He did not want to risk tripping and perhaps cutting himself and seeing the open wound in the moonlight -- the wound that would not bleed. When he had come tonight he had intended to tell Dr. Berg that he wanted to quit. But he had guessed even before Dr. Berg had told him that it had been too late and the words had refused to pass his lips. Now it was over -- Dr. Berg had said so -- and he could no longer even tell Maria that he had quit. Had they caught Juan yet? He knew that they would, for Dr. Berg had been right -- there was no place to hide in these hills. Juan would have to go into a village and the police would be waiting there for him. Would he even have a chance to spend the money he hacT stolen? Gabriel hoped that he would. It would seem more fair that way. And who had been right? Dr. Berg or himself? Why had Juan killed the man. Dr. Tenkins? Because of what the installation done to Gabriel -- or merely because he wanted money and the freedom money could bring? Gabriel thought he knew the answer, but many times in the past he had thought he had known the answer to other questions and often he had been wrong. When he reached the first houses of the village he began to hurry, stepping quickly through the barren dusty streets. The houses at the edge of the village were shacks made of thin wood -- they banged and clattered loudly as the wind whipped the boards against each other. This was the worst part of the village. Gabriers home was not far from here, but it was not of this section. He had always been proud of this fact. He was a fisherman, as had been his father before him. Two summers ago, when there had not been enough fish, he had been so ashamed that he had stayed away from home for days at a time. It had been a similar time -- a slow time, though not so harsh -- when Dr. Berg had found him. I am the most trustworthy man in the village... Why had he said it? Because it was true? Perhaps it was true -- but why had he said it? It was not like him to boast so openly of his virtues... of GabriePs home. Light came through the open door, providing a background for the man, ihaking him a shadow. "No -- Gabriel -- no." The policeman put his hands against Gabriel's chest and held him away from the door. He could hear people moving and talking inside the house. "Juan?" he asked. "No." The policeman pushed him farther back. Gabriel knew this man. His name was Diego and as children they had gone together to the sea with Gabriel's father. But Diego had been too clumsy to make a good fisherman. "Maria?" Gabriel asked. "Is that him? Is that the man, Diego?" This was a voice from inside. It sounded unduly harsh in the stillness of the night. "Send him in. Don't stop him. Let him come ahead. He will have to know." She was in the bedroom. There were three rooms in the house. The main room was filled with men, many of them uniformed policeman. The kitchen was empty. Gabriel passed through both in order to reach the bedroom. Maria lay on the bed. A Wanket covered her. Gabriel knew the man who sat on the edge of the bed. It was the, doctor. "Please," Gabriel said. "Let me see her." The doctor shrugged and drew back the blanket. Gabriel looked at Maria. Her hands, crossed on her chest, were very white. Her neck and face were a sea of dark red. The knife lay on the table beside the bed. There was a puddle of dark red on thefloor below the table. Her face was expressionless. Maria clutched a crucifix. Gabriel noticed the way the dull medallion glimmered in the dim light, as though it possessed an illumination of its own. Then the doctor drew the blanket back over her head. "She didn't leave a note," he said. Gabriel shook his head and turned to leave. "Well," said the doctor. "Can't you say? Why did she do it?" Gabriel could not say. IF H e crossed toward the main business section of the village, a single street three blocks long of battered stores and small markets. The street smelled powerfully and constantly of rotting fish. The cantina squatted on a corner. The hour was late but the place never closed until the last customer had gone home. Gabriel walked across the wooden sidewalk and through the open door. Perez's brother-inlaw, Chalo, was working behind the bar. Gabriel told him that he wanted a beer. Reaching a big hand into the freezer below the bar, Chalo removed a bottle of beer. The tinted brown glass of the bottle sparkled with tiny clinging particles ot ice. Chalo opened the bottle and poured the contents carefully into a glass mug, tipping the mug slightly so that the foam would not spill. "So you are working late again tonight?" "Yes," Gabriel said. "And for this they pay you extra money." The mug was full. Taking it, Gabriel lapped at the foam. "Sometimes." "But you're not ill." "No," Gabriel said, lifting the mug from the bar. Turning, eyes darting, he searched for a suitable table. "But you look very pale," Chalo said. "Has Juan been captured?" Gabriel found a good place to sit: It was the last table on the floor and he squeezed between it and the wall, setting his beer down first. Then he drank. The top of the table was deeply scarred with various names and phrases, most in Spanish, a few in English. There, were also many dates without much meaning. Again Gabriel drank. Two people were seated at opposite ends of the bar. Both were gazing straight ahead into the mirror. One was either an American or an Englishman. He was drinking whisky and he was too old and shabbily dressed to be a tourist. His white hair was sprinkled across his head in moist clumps like melting snow. The other was merely an old woman, done for the night. She looked very tired. Gabriel had seen her many times before but he could not remember her name. He could not remember anything right now. Raising the mug to his lips, he drained most of the beer, then placed what was left at the center of the table. He fixed his hands one on each side of the mug. Then he began to jiray. He prayed first to the Son and then to the Father. Then he prayed to both. He said, Our Father Who Art in Heaven... and so on. He told the Father that his fear was not that of any man who had lived before. Even the Son had been allowed to die so that he might live again. He said that he knew that suicide was a sin of mortal consequence, but that the choice of accomplishing this act was no longer his to make. He asked simply for death. For release. For death to fulfill Christ's promise that he might live again. He was positive that God was hearing him now. Hadn't Dr. Goddard said that installation's work was the most important in the entire history of the human 'race? And wasn't he, Gabriel, still a man? He opened his mind and let God see what he now saw in all his moments of waking dreaming sleeping working walking crying. He showed the funnel to God, stretching endlessly ahead and 'behind, turning, spinning, shirling, ever the same, black and eternally swirling Gabriel and this smell of fish and these men, the doctors... The same and the same and the same. The eternal infinite sameness. ' His lips moved, mumbling. Then he stopped and closed his eyes, waiting. Nothing happened. His breath swept sweet, pure, fish-smelling air into his lungs. His throat was moist. The taste of beer lay mildly bitter oh his lips and tongue. His nostrils were clean and dry. Oh, Christ kill me... Nothing happened. He grabbed the mug by the handle and cracked it over the falling. He raised the jagged edge of the cracked mug, glass sharp as a razor, placed it against his throat, held it there, waiting, feeling death near, sensing its material presence. Chaol came around the bar, frightened. The old woman turned, disinterested. The Anglo did nothing. "I cannot die," Gabriel said softly. Juan and Maria, Maria and Juan, together, inseparable in death. And he alone was. alone. He dropped the glass and stepped senselessly over it, pushing the table away. He walked out to the empty swirling street, endless street, the same street, the street that would never change, could never kill. Gabriel went home and Maria was gone and nothing happened. # IF S ometimes I wonder what (which was all done in the mainhas happened to our perspecstream forty years ago.) Science tive. We used to smile at the old fan fiction is like, serious, man! tion Is a Way of Life. Except for a writers who seem to enjoy playing few way-out characters, we all with their concepts and having fun. knew that the concept was an overThey take time out to live in the statement. Science fiction was priworlds they create and to try to marily a hobby, even to the profesmake things hang together below sionals. It may have been the best the surface, where nobody usually hobby in the world and it may have looks. Like any good hobbyist paid off for a few writers, but we they are more concerned with how were in it for the fun, the gadget is built than with Lately, it seems, all that has whether it will pass casual inspecchanged. We're a blooming bunch tion. Every piece is made to the of serious artists and science fiction same scale and everything works, is relevant. It doesn't have to be They have fun with the creation of fun, or good, or even interesting -- a story, and try ta make sure the just relevant and significant. Its readers will sense the elements of purpose is to break taboos (which pleasure that went into it. were broken twenty years before in Harry Harrison's novel Tunnel the mainstream) and to provide an Through the Deeps (Putnam, outlet for experimental writing S.#S) is a good example of this. Nobody who took himself too seriously would have written the book in the first place and no writer who had lost the sense of fun in playing with all aspects of an idea could have made such an idea a pleasure to read, as Harrison has. , The basic plot is about as simple as possible. In a world where George Washington was executed after losing the war against the British, his # descendant takes on the job of building a transatlantic tunnel, hoping to improve the chances of the American Colonies' gaining Commonwealth status. There's a bit of character conflict, menace to fill out the story. But there's nothing that should be particularly new or exciting. The freshness obviously must come from the fact that Harrison has used some 'sort of cross-time vehicle to get into this alternate present of his. After reading the novel carefully I can only guess that he must have spent the last few years living there and absorbing the attitudes of the world. Surely this book was not written by a man who inhabits our space-time frame. Somewhen between # and # our real present accelerated its rate of change and sloughed off most of the established attitudes that our grandfathers had developed. Our literature shows this. particularly our more "pulpy" fiction. The eternal verities of literature have been turned upside down and the heroines who used to blush now rush into bed. But there has been a lag in such changes in the alternate present. Here women are stiH"virtuous and Love is Important. Men are clearly men, filled with the joy of honest work, happy to be what they are. Honor exists and is taken for granted. What Harrison has obviously done is to give us a story written for that alternate present. And it is so well done that I can't point to any specific instance as illustrative, because the entire book is an illustration of different attitudes in a different world. This story would be accepted without any surprise in that world. It might even be a piece of science fiction written in their # about their #. The technology is also different from ours. Oh, the people have atomic power, of course, but they also have the inconsistencies that always show up in a real technology -- but not the same inconsistencies that are found in our present. Reading Harrison's book I found myself nostalgic for # -- the alternate #, that is. The world presented is a real -- and generally a very good -- one. It's nice to know that if anything goes as wrong where we live -- as it may -- there IF will still be the alternate present to carry on. Because, of course, Harrison's is a real world -- perhaps more real than ours -- as must be obvious to anyone who reads the book. F )R an example of what can be done by a man who really knows how to ride a hobby we can turn to Philip Jose Farmer, whose Tarzan Alive (Doubleday, #) is like no other book ever created. Farmer has opened a wholly new field of research -- one where the absence of data forms no obstacle to the diligent searcher. I've always considered Farmer to be the ultimate hobbyist of our field and have usually found myself thoroughly delighted by the results of his steadfast pursuit of his numerous interests. But here is the first example of what he can do when he throws off all normal limitations and gives himself up all the way, in every way, to the completion of his appointed zwounds. In brief, it is his discovery that the man whom the world knows as John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, (or more familiarly, Tarzan of the Apes), is very much alive. While the possibility was mentioned by Clayton's former biographer and popularizer, nobody but Farmer seems to have accepted the hints in Tarzan and the Foreign Legion as the simple facts they must now be recognized to be. Farmer has followed these and other clues to the discovery of the true identity of the man, after which he was able to obtain a brief but illuminating interview with Clayton. Following this, of course, there could no longer be any doubt of the reality of the human being so thinly disguised in the accounts of E. R. Burroughs. For a normal researcher pursuing routine studies, discovering the simple truth might have been enough. But as a true hobbyist Farmer was unable to rest upon such scant laurels. He pursued his researches into the true life of Clayton and was able to straighten out the tangled web of confusion Burroughs had introduced to conceal certain facts. He found, for instance, that the confusing matter of Tarzan's having a grown son after only a few years of marriage was the result of confusion involving the real son and the boy adopted by the Claytons. A whole section of the book attempts -- with obvious success -- to untangle the fictional confusion from the facts. A few puzzling questions remain, of course, as Farmer admits. But in general I find my own theories in some cases to be confirmed, so I can naturally attest to the accuracy of Farmer penetrating analysis. But the value Of the book goes far beyond providing an accurate biography of Clayton. The socalled apeman was, after all, only one of a seeming horde of superior characters whose lives deeply affected the pleasure and education of the generation or more of readers. Farmer has discovered the link that unites the "Clayton" family with such famous names as Drummond, Holmes and Wentworth. I am particularly indebted for the information given on the life of Richard Wentworth, since many aspects of his distinguished career have long bafHed me and no other researcher has done any serious study of this important part of our history. Though distinguished by a liveliness of tone and occasional flashes of welcome humor, this volume is a completely scholarly work. Addenda are provided for those who wish to examine Farmer's evidence in more detail. There is a chronology, a bibliography and a most welcome and complete index. For those who have difficulty in keeping the textual matter in clear perspective, there is also a simplified geneological chart. I trust that copies of this book will survive for at least several hundred years. I like to think of the delight of some future scholar who may come upon this unique work and whose life may be enlarged by the rich treasure within. The effects upon posterity should exceed those the book may have upon its current readers. And to anyone who ever enjoyed the fictional exploits of Tarzan all I can say is: Don't be put off by anything in this review -- the book is a lovely one indeed and pure joy to read! D onald a. wollheim has founded his own line of Books. He plans to issue four volumes a month, all science fiction. That's a large program, but his long experience at Ace makes the venture far more reasonable than it first seems. The first books are all attractive, with far better than average cover art. All are currently priced at # each. Joseph Green's The Mind Behind The Eye involves giant aliens, deliberately created human superman mutants and something of the Trojan horse bit. The superman we follow winds up inside the head of a living but nonsentient giant alien where he is plagued by fear of infertility and by the reaction of a fellow worker -- all while trying to make the giant react normally within the giant society. Some of the book is fascinating reading, but too many ideas run rampant in it. Green has used the IF old kitchen-sink recipe -- everything goes in, including the sink. The reader is bombarded with too many ideas without being given enough time to fit in any of them properly. And the end of the grand confusion requires a bit too much coincidence to be convincing. The Day Star, by Mark S. Geston is either a simple piece of fantasy or science fiction -- I don't know where to put it. The end of the city-builder evolution has tried to impose an end to chaos on some hauntingly alien cosmos -- and chaos has struck back, making all the history of that cosmos a barren waste, except for dull cities here and there. Men from the last of the legendary cities sail through time and space to recover the wondrous material that almost trapped chaos. A boy from an early age sets out with a ghostly "grandfather" to seek his way to the fabled city. The novel is the account of the trip and its quiet aftermath. I haven't liked Geston's previous stories. But this one has a strange compulsion. Treatment and incident are beautifully adjusted to the story: It is sort of a dream sequence, with the language and poetry of dreams superimposed. I enjoyed the tale and also the curious afterglow it left. The book not only has a cover by George Barr, incidentally, but several excellent inside illustrations. I'lp old-fashioned enough to like good illustrations in a book. One of the worst titles I've come across yet is The Tar-Aiym Krang, by Alan Dean Foster (Ballantine, # i). With that staring me in the face, I kept passing over the book whenever I searched for one to read. But you can't judge a book by either the cover or the title, it seems. The novel begins with a beggar boy On a trading world. He becomes involved with a bunch of bigtime traders and researchers, who are looking for the last, lost and greatest artifact of a great prehuman race. The artifaa turns out to be still operable -- or would be, if anyone could communicate with it. And perhaps you can guess the rest. No element in the story is very original. Yet each is well done and the whole adds up to a good adventure, with quite a bit of richness of texture, interesting handling of characters and their inter-relationships. Recommended. For those who like adventure with an excellent problem and a bit son's Seetee Ship and Seetee Shock have been issued together in a single volume by Lancer Books, at SI. #. (Please turn to page I # ) (Conclusion) The planet was inimical to life, yet endlessly exploring his world's most elusive offering -- survival. A young assisted him following his hunt for knowledge in the "valley of warm an artifact from the planet's past that might hold the key to its future. Lecupied the planet in its youth, built great cities -- what had been their secret? itself at the cellular level of injuries and ward off the radioactive toxicity of the planet. His great lungs could extract individual particles of air from the poisonous atmosphere and Vll my joy with the satellite in opposition to the sun, rising in the cold, dark valleys forming shadows on its face. I can reach out and touch its face, not with my mind, as the Far Seers do, but with my imagination, as dreamers do.  dream and my dreams are turning true; welded to my flesh is Beautiful Wings, whose body, even in flight, nourstore them for indefinite periods. But he had to be rescued on his homeward whose body chemistry enabled her to utilize the planet's magnetic field to counteract its gravity for wingless flight. meeting led to their mating -- and to could extend his healing powers to her and share his air and energies with her. This development became vitally important when he was sentenced to death for having illegally dug in the soil of the warm-water valley for his precious artifact. could reach the farthest stars and whose mind held all wisdom. Fueled by eastern sea. ishes that which we have made together. I share with her the elation of freedom from the pull of the planet. Through her mind I see the delicate design of the magnetic field and with my own force coupled with hers, for we are one, I push against it, use its power to send our bodies flying. The bright gleaming satellite comes through space to meet us, the clouds roil darkly beneath us and the planet turns and swims in its circle of the sun. I feel myself giving of my surplus substance to power our soaring.  wonder at it. The limits of the imagination know no bounds and I speak with her, telling her of the satisfaction  have known in my wanderings. She shares with me that curiosity which, to my knowledge, has in the past been limited to those of my kind. We are not dismayed by the length of the passage, but use it to see with our eyes the far, bright spots the Far Seers tell us are other suns like ours. The basic laws of nature must work even there -- planets swim and nature peoples those planets with life, for life is the be all and end all. I hail you, all you far-flung Power Givers and Healers and all your loves. May your unions produce a balance. May all of you -- where the far suns glitter dimly your blendings all-powerful. For  know the goodness of life and share your joy as I invite you to share mine.  see flamboyant pictures of hope. I see the survival factor waxing. I see understanding. I see love.  see the race rising to overcome the hardships of our ancient the storms to allow the toxicity to settle into the sink holes, leaving the planet to us. Are we at the mercy of the planet? No. For if we merely took what was offered, we would die gasping in the clouds of death. The books of the learned thinkers tell us (and why that rather dim, antique word picture there -- what is a book? that we are beloved of nature and yet she does her best, in every way, at every moment of the sun circle, to kill us. Nature is the sacred force and is therefore not to be questioned. Tampering is not allowed. Witness my own problems involving an ancient law that says one must not dig in the softness or the hardness of the soil lest the poisons of death overtake one. But I, Rack the Healer, have, in effect, dug. I have wetted my hands in the products of the soft earth, pushing my fingers into the muck of a new streambed with impunity. You, out there, are you bound by tradition? Are your Far Seers blind to new knowledge? drive us, using the mind force of Beautiful Wings, to catch that swimming world out there, that bright, dark-shadowed planet, our satellite, and speak with my pictures to the men there. With my eyes  see it and think, ah, how clear, how bright. How clean the air. Is it not as old, not as wasted, not as soiled as our world? Not, I think, for otherwise it would glow with the poison yellows and purples rather than with the clarity of the hot water that gushes from the rocks in the valley I found beyond the river. Yes,  am strong, full of subIF stance. Yet as we soar I feel the cold seep through my scdes and slow my blood and my love shivers against me and we drop to the upper thickness of the clouds to warm ourselves with the heat of the sun caught there, captured under that thick blanket. There we live on my stored air, finding not even a particle of free air for our lungs as our gills expel the gases without allowing a breath to pass. Down here is reality. Here is my world, her world -- the world that belongs equally' to all of us. Here is the reality that binds us within our scales and minds. Here our outer lids close and we are in darkness, for the tender membranes of our inner lids are scalded by the harshness of it. Here we soar on instinct alone, guided by the Healer s sense of direction, by the ability of my love to measure distances with accuracy -- water below, clouds around us, the bright sky hidden. On the surface, skimming slowly, seeking, we find pockets of breathable air and I replenish, but the storms are hidden and the storms that are abating in my homeland behind us rage still on the sea and the heavy waters heave, drenching our feet. Here is cruel nature -- blasphemous thought, but true. Outside the protective community of my birth, I, Rack the Healer, outlaw, can think such thoughts yet I have to hide them, for my love is not as cynical as I. The water of the sea is warm and I remember the feel of it on my scales as I dive. I remember the feel of the slick, pulpy plants in my fingers as  contribute to the welfare of the race by gathering the food source. It is said that the people of the eastern lands eat of the flesh of the small, armored animals that crawl in the beds of slime source. But our Far Seers call them poison. Does this not speak of the fallibility of the law-givers?  have not seen the proof but it is recorded. In the same sea that washes the shores of both my homeland and the eastern lands, would the small, armored animals be poison for some and food for others? I know only that there is much to learn and I, Rack the Healer, intend to stretch my mind until  feel it strain within its scales. For I have known the joy of union. Only favored ones are allowed more than an experience. I have known the joy and I think -- although I will check with the store of knowledge in the minds of the eastern Keepers -- that I am unique in that aspect, of joining my body totally with a Power Giver, her blood my blood, her organs open to my healing powers. True, I may be suffering from excess pride, but can such a one think seriously about resigning himself to tradition, when such small innovations open such broad vistas of possibility? We hunger. We suck the good broth from my pack and it refreshes us. My cells glow, grow, engorge themselves and  feel my strength flowing through my welded tongue into her body and, to please me, she allows us to drop from fearful heights, like stones dropped from the escarpment, falling, falling, until, with a long, sweeping rise, we soar again and  feel the blood drain into my legs and am giddy with delight and we laugh and sweep in long swoops through the dawning sky as the rising sun brightens the low clouds and sends its glow to greet us. Around us is our world. We are not totally free, for we are dependent on the broth. For that we are dependent on the Far Seers who have tamed the hairy, many-legged Webber, who have bred the deadly Juicers to giant size and who milk them and combine the sticky material exuded by the Webbers with the fiery fluid of the Juicers to form vats of the Material to hold the broth. We are not independent, for nature has decreed that it takes the three mobile forms to provide food and shelter -- Far Seers, Healers, Power Givers, working together. The particular mental talents of the Far Seers blend the products of the Webbers and the Juicers, mold the Material, start the process of breakdown in the pulpy slimesource plants that results, with power from the Power Givers, in our food. And we, the Healers, gather the slime source. So we are dependent on one another. My love and  must become a part of a community in the eastern lands which, the senses of Beautiful Wings tell us, are lying ahead where the clouds billow high. But there will be free times. Then we will fly, our packs with us, to see the unseen lands, to explore the vast empty spaces, to walk the barren rocks of the planet. For we have at least the freedom of unlimited flight. I find, after that long, long distance, that  am scarcely hurt, that my resources are almost totally intact. With my metabolism and her ability to climb the lines of force radiated from the planet we could truly soar all the way off this dying orb and seek our brothers on the far worlds. Ah, you see, I am Rack the Healer, dreamer. the Far Seer, making a routine check of his place, noted the burden of the soaring Power Giver -- a healthy young Healer with an almost empty pack -- and mused. He was old. Named for his place, that ancient, eroded range against which the sea rolled on the west, he had lived too many sun circles to be amazed by the willful waste of the Power Giver's substance. The line of flight traced back to the sea and that meant only one thing, a joy flight, for no one wanting to get IF from one place to the other would be traveling that roufe. Weathered Mountain was more concerned that the new beginning was not bringing the expected rise in the survival factor. He was engaged in measuring the output of food and was grumpily becoming convinced that short rations were in the offing, since the outsidr conditions did not allow the Healers a full day's work in the sea. He, of course, would be as short in his rations as anyone -- it was the nature of things -- and at his age even minor discomforts displeased him. He paid no more attention to the soaring Power Giver and her burden until his senses, swinging out automatically, sensed that they were lowering into his place. He checked identity idly -- then rose quickly, moving with a spring in his legs which he had thought was long since gone, for what he saw pushed survival factors and food production into the back of his old mind and filled him with a youthful excitement. "Welcome, welcome, welcome," he sent. "Welcome to my place and welcome to my air and my broth and my meat." Rack sent thanks and said privately, "This place is as good as any." Beautiful Wings agreed, although she was a bit awed by the high-piled rocky bones of the ancient mountain range. People, they found, were the same their world over. Weathered Mountain the Far Seer was no different from his counterparts in their homeland. And his establishment, with one noticeable difference, was much like those at home. However, gleaming nuggets of hard material in a. display case caught Rack's eye and interest. "We do, indeed, come from across the sea," he absently answered Weathered Mountain's query regarding the length of his journey. "Then your Power Giver must have rest. There is a vacant chamber, my prime Keeper having unfortunately died during the winter." "She is young and strong," Rack said, "and relatively unharmed. She prefers to stay with me." "As you wish," Weathered Mountain said, seating himself. The excitement had begun to make his old limbs tremble. "Have you then developed new techniques for soaring?" Rack pondered the question. In this strange land, where people were said to eat the flesh of sea animals, he was at a disadvantage. He was not yet ready to reveal the amazing thing that had happened between him and Beautiful Wings. "Only a long period of rest and heavy feeding and breathing in advance," he said. "And, as I said, she is unusually strong for a Power Giver." Weathered Mountain was not content with the answer, but there were larger questions. In his lifetime no one had crossed thesea. The last crossing, made in the lifetime of his grandfather, had been for a comparison of survival factors and a trade in air readings which had indicated that conditions were much the same on both sides of the wide waters and that the same deadly air ipoved over all lands. 'The purpose of your trip, then," he sent politely, "if you are prepared to discuss it with such a one?" "We are honored, indeed, to be greeted by one of such accumulated wisdom," Rack said, "for I detect the presence of a double picture of the mind of a Keeper." "It is true that I pride myself on my interest in learning," said Weathered Mountain, "but you flatter me." He smiled. "The new Keeper is young and has been newly filled with the store of minute knowledge formerly kept in the mind of the old one who, sadly, died. However, during the process of transferral, I noted that we have the complete records of the last visit from across the sea, if you are interested." "In time, perhaps," Rack said, raising the Far S#er's curiosity to a feverish level. "But it is not observation of nature -- at least not in the form of survival factors and air readings -- that has brought us. I confront you with a new piece of information -- at least new to our land. It is our wish to compare -- to discover if any knowledge of a comparable nature is available in the lands of the east." B eautiful wings cast a look at him, for he had not discussed his plans with her. She, with the non-inventive mind of a Power Giver, had envisioned Rack applying for a position in the area of the Far Seer for both of them. "Ah," sent Weathered Mountain in expectancy. "Perhaps it would be best," Rack said, "for you to step into -- a given and exact location in my mind." "If you permit." "Enter." He blocked in the area he wanted the old man to examine, felt the mind tendrils of the Far Seer. He waited. The exact impressions, the memory, the feel, the weight, the texture, the taint of wet, soft earth, weje there as the Far Seer examined Rack's stored memory of the odd material from the valley of the hot waters. Rack waited, slightly nervous. A bit of his fear must have leaked, for the Old Far Seer sent amusement. "Your law-givers still abide by that hoary old taboo?" Rack felt relief. "I am pleased to find that the wise Far Seers of the east value knowledge above tradition." "Do you see these?" Weathered Mountain asked, indicating his IF precious collection oF hard-material nuggets. "I think there is a connection between the hard materials and the Old Ones," Rack said. "Do you find that foolish?" A mental shrug. "One does not fully understand. I wish you had brought the new thing." "Its value, of course, prevented that." "Yes." A blankness came as the Far Seer withdrew for contempla' tion. When he sent again he asked questions. Rack, freed of the fear of punishment, answered, telling of the methods used to unearth the object. "It is said by some that the Old Ones built with stone," Weathered Mountain remarked. A wave of excitement sent Rack's mind speculating. "There is evidence?" "Suspicion. Guessing. Curious formations have been found." "And in your lands you have discovered no object made of the curious material?" "None, We do, of course, value the hard materials for their beauty, if not for their usefulness. There is a certain competition for their possession." "And do they come from the subsurface?" Rack asked. "No Healer can withstand the low areas," Weathered Mountain said. "But there are areas -- such as the valley of the hot waterswhere digging is possible?" "It is said." Amusement. "When I am offered a hard-material nugget in exchange for a certain favor, such as a change of duty time or an extra ration of the Material, I do not question the Healer too closely." "And your knowledge of the Old Ones?" "It is not one of my interest areas, but there are some who are as fascinated with the Old Ones as you. I can put you in contact with them. Is this, then, this pursuit of the old myths, your sole reason for journeying across the sea?" "Is not knowledge worthy of the pursuit?" Rack asked. Weathered Mountain, vaguely disappointed, but still stimulated by the contact, said, "My area is the area of interest of all Far Seers -- life and the maintenance thereof. Would the sur knowledge that your odd object is the work of the Old Ones help those who have left their establishments in the low lands of the interior for lack of air?" "My question, if answered, might have bearing," Rack said. "I am interested in knowing if life has always been at the mercy of nature or -- and this is not meant to be blasphemy -- " "Blasphemy is an outdated concept," Weathered Mountain sent, "at least to one as old as I." "Could the Old Ones have known more than we credit them with? Did they in any way control the forces of nature?" was silent. After a long pause he spoke. "I find that I am, after all, not past the ability to be shocked. Your question presents, indeed, a startling concept. Nature, my young Healer, is nature. How the movements of the air? As long as the planet spins, there will be movements of the air. Moreover, the calculations of Wide River the Far Seer, in a moment of pure idleness, prove that if the air were stilled, allowed to settle, only the peaks of the highest mountains would extend above the heavy gases." "I think in smaller pictures," Rack said. "If the Old Ones used the hard materials, for what did they Use them? Would the discovery of such information be of more than passing interest to us? Is the object I found in the valley of the hot waters something left by the Old Ones? Or has it, as my Far Seers think, fallen from the vastness of the space outside? And, if so, if it is a flying, falling, alien object, is it still not amazing? For if it came from one of the worlds out there -- was it not crafted by men like us? I see no conflict in either theory, for both contain much that should interest our minds. Life exists, according to our best thinking, on all worlds. Why would nature provide a world if not to support life?" "Had I not seen the death of a Keeper just days ago I could be more in sympathy, with your theory," Weather Mountain said. "And since you seem to be of a strong, inquiring mind, I will add something that has not been revealed to any mind other than a Far Seer's. It is the prediction of our combined minds, after a vast picture of measurements and agonizing analysis, that life on this planet will cease to exist, save for the inert plants of the poison sink holes, in a frighteningly short period of sun circles, a period well within the range of the mind of a Healer. Does this shock you?" Rack felt weak. He seized Beautiful Wings' hand and felt her tremble. Such a thought, the extinction of all life, was unbearable. "As do your Far Seers," Weathered Mountain said, "we measure the growth of the Breathers in the southern seas. We read the air and the poisons therein. What we read discourages us. We read a steady decline in the quantity of good air. We read lower and lower survival factors. We measure the emanations of the sun and the movements of the air. We find little to indicate hope." "Should this be true," Rack said, "then there is ever more reason for inquiry." He was tempted to tell the Far Seer that IF something new had come to him, the ability to blend with Beautiful Wings' flesh and to heal. "For who knows where inquiry might lead?" was tired. He longed for the comfort of his rack with the new Keeper beside him, soft and warm. At first he had hoped that the unusual journey across the sea had brought new information, perhaps a good survival factor reading to indicate that somehow, against all logic, the planet was starting a new cycle of replenishing itself. Instead he had been subjected to the wild speculations of the mind of a Healer, had been given only one piece of new information of doubtful use. it was true that the knowledge of a strange, unexplained object was not in any way going to put clean air over the abandoned low lands of the interior. The existence of the object would not save one life. "I rest," he sent. "You are welcome to use my air and drink of my broth. You are free to use. the stored knowledge in the mind of my Keeper." At the doorway he paused. "In spite of the superb condition of your Power Giver the journey back to your homeland will, of course, be impossible. You must therefore choose your community. You will be welcome in mine. We can always use a strong Healer and a young Power Giver. I note your attachment and will assign your periods of free time so that you may be together. Take your pick of the unused establishments in my place and be part of us if you choose." Rack, too, knew disappointment. He was not sure what he was seeking, but the Far Seer of the mountains had added little to his store of knowledge beyond a doubtful picture of the Old Ones building with stone. That would bear investigation during his First free period. He had also been given other food for thought -- the pessimistic prediction of death for all. It was small consolation that the prediction would allow him his full lifespan, him and his Power Giver and their offspring. But what lay ahead for his grandchild, should Beautiful Wings give birth to a Healer or a Power Giver? Desflh? The end of life on the entire planet? That he would not accept. Soaring low, he and Beautiful Wings examined unused establishments, selected a spot on the side of a craggy, bone-bare mountain where updrafts brought occasional breaths of good air. There they rested, blended minds, installed the new colony of Breathers from the scant reserves of Weathered Mountain's place. To warrant the kindness they worked, Beautiful Wings powering a vat of brewing broth. Rack diving into the murky, heavy sea to pluck slime source. Conditions improved slightly, giving the lie to Weathered Mountain's dire prophecy of doom. Life was good. While working. Rack came to know his fellow workers. He compared knowledge and was told -- to his mounting excitement -- of the methods used by eastern Healers to collect the hard material. In safe spots, scattered and always rare, they actually used tools fashioned of the "Material to turn the soil and find the telltale streaks of waste that indicated the possible presence of a nugget. He was astounded to find that the hard materials, once the surface of the soil was scratched, seemed to be relatively plentiful and, although his pride in the ownership of three nuggets -- two back in his establishment and out of reach, one mounted on Beautiful Wings' breast -- was damaged, his hope was not. While visiting the establishment of a fellow Healer he saw a nugget of amazing size and shape. One flat, gleaming side reflected his image. It was a treasure -- a crafted object, obviously, rather than an actual nugget. Astounding! More convinced that ever that the Old Ones had been more than a shiftless race of savages living on the fat of a young planet, he approached his first free period with anticipation. IX B eautiful wings' beiiy began to stretch with the life inside it. New scales sprang up to cover the expanded area of flesh. They would molt and fall after the birth returned her to normal size. After working through the new beginning and into the summer, she and Rack found stable warm air for their free period and, using their technique for soaring on Rack's strength, they explored. They found much vast, uninhabited emptiness. As in their homeland, most of the terrain was bare. Low spots stank with rank growth. Broad, thick-watered rivers crisscrossed the land. Beside them, digging without fear. Rack found discoloration and indication of the past existence of much hard material. When their supplies were used up they soared back to the establishment, enriched with three tiny nuggets of the strange stuff. There they refreshed, breathed, ate. Rack's hand could feel the life in the body of Beautiful Wings. The swelling of her belly never ceased to fill him with a proud joy. In the time of the end of summer storms he sought the mind of Weathered Mountain's Keeper, Beautiful Wings was confined to the establishment, her time nearing. Of most interest to Rack was the store of knowledge transferred from the older Keeper, often chaoticaly misfiled. Ancestral records were mixed with fragments of ancient picture poetry, plapet movements with speculation on the ancient thoughts of the Far Seers, IF broth inventories with the familiar Book of Rose the Healer. Rack sorted through the misfiled records, musing over the beautiful pictures of the scant works of poetic Healers, passing the dry, technical records of the Far  ers, seeking something, something. It was not true, he found, that the people of the east were unresponsive to duty. Once, long ago. Red Earth had indicated -- or had it been one of Rack's teachers? -- that the eastern civilization was based on the bartering of hard material nuggets in exchange for services. The facts were different. The easterners valued the hard material for itself as a subject of wonder and as a source of beauty. But it was also true that to exchange favors for a nugget was not unknown. The mind of the Keeper held an exact record of each exchange made by Weathered Mountain. In addition Rack found an analysis of different types of hard material and this interested him. Apart from this information he learned nothing new as the birth time neared and he abandoned his. visits to the Keeper to tend Beautiful Wings.  xV. her he watched in awe. Thus did nature work. Soon he would know his child. Healer? Far Seer? Keeper? Power Giver? He hoped for the lasta daughter with the beauty of his love, to be named Many Pleasures in honor of the union in the far north of his homeland. Beautiful Wings asked nature -- in a soft, pleased picture -- for a true Healer. She writhed now, feeling the early pain. Rack, his hands on her belly, saw the miracle of birth flowering, the red, beautiful tint reminding him of the joining. Scales flowered, molted. "Come, Many Pleasures," Rack sent to the unresponsive, tiny mind. "It is a pleasant world and it will be yours." Beautiful Wings knew instinctively what do do. Her body did that for which it was designed, creating new life. Her lower portions mottled ruby red, molted, spread to reveal a soft fleshy area. The birth began with a new day's dawning. A tiny head emerged, encased in a fleshy sack, and a soft, scaleless body followed. It wiggled with life and reeked with the products of birth until Rack, trying to hide his disappointment, cleaned his Keeper daughter and gave her to her mother to suckle at the flowering breast bulges. Nature's balance was maintained. Ungovernable forces decreed the type of the child, and nature obviously needed another Keeper. And their life would not be filled with a growing Power Giver or a curious wild young Healer. "Wc will have each other," Beautiful Wings sent. Rack berated himself for letting his sadness show. He found some joy in watching the infant suckle the rich juices of her mother's body, but he could not help but think of the fate of the new one, to be kept by a Far Seer, used for his pleasure. Ah, but she, too, would know pleasure. Her small mind would not go forward, would stay much as it was, knowing sensation, knowing hunger and discomfort and comfort and good air. Protected inside an inpregnable establishment, she would live a long, happy life. And in living she would contribute -- for what was civilization but an accumulation of knowledge and experience? Without Keepers, civilization would be dependent on frailer memories and knowledge would perish. "We will have each other," Rack agreed and sent pictures of soaring, traveling. The ice of the far south, the fire of the south lands, the Helds of the Breathers in the southern sea. They would see all. "And -- " She sent a devastatingly strong picture, full of sadness and nostalgia. The establishment where they had known their initial bliss, then the far north and the repetition. "Do you miss it so?" he asked. "I shouldn't. It isn't logical." She smiled as the infant had its HU and slept. "I will take you home," he said. She sent alarm. "Surely they will listen to reason," he said. "Here we dig and the promised death does not come. Too, Red Earth should be apprised of the predictions of the eastern Far Seers, the dire warnings of all-encompassing death." "f fear for you," she said. "We have," he told her, "unlimited soaring ability. We could flee to the satellite itself, given enough broth and air to carry us through cold space." "Silly." She giggled. "We can in any case fly away again if they are not responsive." He longed for his homeland. He would take her to the valley of the hot waters. There they would dig and unearth what they could -- perhaps, something that would pull together his confused thoughts. When the infant Keeper was able to take broth she was delivered to the establishment of a youthful Far Seer, who had not as yet been provided with a Keeper. She would, they were assured, be given the best of treatment. The Far Seer's tender handling of the baby in their presence comforted them. Rack tried not to think of her future, of her body being used by the Far Seer. He thought instead of the Book of Rack the Healer, the work he had planted in the scarcely formed storage space of her brain. Some day a curious Healer would find it there, read the IF pictures and know him. There he had left all his thoughts, all his questions, all his discoveries. He knew no regret when he and Beautiful Wings soared into the clean, thin air above the early winter clouds. Nature provided and nature made a balance. Behind them was a baby, product of their miraculous union -- a baby without a name who had ceased to be theirs when she took her first meal of broth. Ahead was home. X world. It was the first thing he sensed after an uneventful soar across the sea. In a land where the barren rocks were broken by the gleaming, transparent domes of establishments were new blank spaces. The Area of Responsibility of Red Earth the Far er, home to Rack and Beautiful Wings, was familiar to them in physical contour and in the intangible knowledge of its scattered life. As they soared past the coastal sands they found a blank. Growing Tree the Far Seer, Cp-Responsor of Red Earth, was gone. It was as if, on a large board studded with lights, a light had gone off. And, as they continued toward the interior other empty establishments lent a pall of gloom to their homecoming. The end-of-sun-circle storms had started moving earlier than ever before and were more severe, more extensive. It was fortunate. Rack felt, that soaring on his power was less debilitating than moving on the surface. The relatively small amount of his reserves consumed by the flight left him plenty for the lowering and the hovering over Red Earth's establishment. He sent down his mind, encountered the heat of pleasure below. Red Earth was with his Keeper. Mouth to mouth with Beautiful Wings, Rack waited. When it was time he sent, "I am Rack the Healer." He was pleased to received a quick flush of pleasure from Red Earth, but the pleasure was soon damped by surprise, questioning, a heavy sense of duty. Rack answered, "No, I am not dead. Nor is Beautiful Wing." "You have come back, then, to submit to the judgment of the law-givers?" Rack sent the strongest anger and contempt he could muster. "Growing Tree the Far Seer is dead before his time. Gone are Strong Swimmer the Healer, Quick Soar the Power Giver and others in the eastern marches of the area. The storms are early and the Breathers labor in the establishments. At such a time will you be bound by your petty traditions?" "It is all heavy on my mind," Red Earth admitted. "Your reason for returning, then." message of gl # om from the Far Seers of the east" Rack said. "Would you hear in peace?" "In peace," Red Earth said. "Welcome." aura of sadness hung over Red Earth's establishment. The air was pure and good and Rack used it sparingly. Beautiful Wings was allowed more freedom of breath, since Red Earth was observing the rules of privacy and had not scanned their minds to discover the secret of her apparent good condition after a long soar. "I have many questions," Red Earth said. "But first -- the message." It Was delivered. Red Earth received it with no show of emotion. After a long time he sighed, expelling his air. "We have read the same. But I would like to confirm the conditions in the breeding grounds of the Breathers." He sighed again. "I hesitate, however, to consume the" substance of a Power Giver and I must admit I cringe at the thought of going into the outside under storm conditions." "There is a way," Rack said. He was not sure that what he had in mind would work, but the situation was serious enough to warrant any experiment. The mind of a Far Seer would be required to measure the huge but decreasing picture of Breathers in their broad field of surface slime in the southern sea. "I ask your indulgence to break one of the rules of privacy." "In what cause?" Red Earth asked. "Life," he said simply. "A potent argument. You may act." Rack walked to stand behind the Far Seer, bent quickly and pressed his small tongue on the bare flesh of the Far Seer's domed head. He did his magic and his flesh melted into the flesh of the Far Seer. Red Earth's mind registered high surprise, but also a quickness of mental grasp that awed Rack. "Now I bnderstand," Red Earth said excitedly. But something was not right with the Far Seer -- it made Rack feel uncomfortable and, even as he continued the merge, began to make repairs on the body of Red Earth. Red Earth was thinking something below the readable level. It was growing stronger, stronger and then it burst out as it became obvious to Red Earth that the Healer's powers were being extended into the Far HaSrNew One," Red Earth said. "Hail, New One." "No," Rack said, feeling a flush of embarrassment. "I am Rack the Healer." The process continued, cell by cell, fiber by fiber, organ by organ. And a sense of excitement spread from the agitated Far Seer IF into Rack's mind, into the mind of Beautiful Wings. He, Red Earth, in his dreams, had expected the New One to be a completely new life form, as different from the people as the first Healer had been from the Old Ones. Nature, always guileful, had sent the New One in a common form -- but Red Earth was capable of understanding whtt had happened. Questions, answers, a growing excitement. Beautiful Wings was thinking only that Rack's new status was fortunate -- now there could be no further question of his being punished for past crimes. When Rack finished he left the Far Seer in better health than Red Earth had enjoyed since his youth. She could no longer feel seriously threatened by the predictions of the Far Seers. Her world was good. She had Rack and a rare, lasting love. Their position was secure. They were home. Red Earth looked to the future and was brought up short when he learned from Rack that Beautiful Wings had given birth to a child. "A Keeper," Rack told him. "She was left in the care of a young Far Seer of the east." "No, no, that cannot be," Red: Earth said, forgetting himself and searching the mind of Beautiful Wings for confirmation. Then he insisted that nature would not deliver a New One and then let him be wasted in death without having passed on his abilities. "Perhaps," he mused, "the Keeper is also different." "She seemed as all Keepers," Rack said. "You will breed again, then," Red Earth said. "Perhaps," Rack agreed. "The experience was a repeated one." "Yes, you will breed again," Red Earth continued, excited once more. "When you tint we will select the most suitable mate."'We felt the flare of jealousy from Beautiful Wings, sent soothing things, said, "Perhaps it will be you, since your attachment is strong.' hopes. To demonstrate his ability. Rack, after eating hungrily, breathing deeply to rebuild, merg with Red Earth's Keeper, planting his healing technique into her storage banks as he felt her blood, her body, her organs. Then it was time for serious talk. Rack and Beautiful Wings, with Red Earth feeding the data to his Keeper, told of their flight to the east, sent the pictures in detail of all their activities there. Thus was history served, for it was the duty of all to record knowledge. In return Rack was briefed on conditions at home and they were discouraging. The discussion returned to Rack's statement that something could be done to allow Red Earth to measure the Breathers in their home waters. At first Red Earth was skeptical, but after a demonstration -- during which Beautiful Wings merged with Rack, encompassed both Rack and Red Earth in her field of power and lifted them from the floor to hold them effortlessly -- he was convinced. A strange grouping emerged a short time later fro,m the roiling clouds into the thin, upper air. Face to face, merged, were Rack and Beautiful Wings. Back to back with Rack, Red Earth the Far Seer was making a rare soar, taking it all in, his mind seeing all, feeling the far suns, contacting the face of the satellite, measuring the scant spray of air particles in the vast heights. He let his pleasure flow and it was joined to the ever fresh pleasure of Beautiful Wings and Rack, who had soared higher and longer than any Healer and Power Giver in history. Rack laughed, seeing the bright satellite in the sky, playfully repeating his boast that with his vitality and the power of Beautiful Wings, he could send them all soaring there. But he was sobered when Red Earth, using the distance around the planet as a base, sent a picture and a calculation of the energies involved. Then pleasure was put aside, for the southern sea was below. They descended through the dense clouds to find only minimum conditions at the surface. Red Earth directed the flight of the Power Giver, crossing the area again and again, his mind storing pictures so vast that they would not stick in Rack's mind. It was necessary, since the air was scarce and the hard projectiles plentiful, to break his merge with Beautiful Wings, turn and heal Red Earth. When he had finished and she accepted him back he was shocked to see how quickly the heavy burden had sapped her. He felt himself flow out, giving gladly and feeling a tenderness that made Red Earth squirm with discomfort. "You arc never to soar without me," Rack told her sternly. ing, once the party was safely back in the Far Seer's establishment, Red Earth went into rapport with his Keeper. For a long period he compared his new pictures with others, drawing occasionally on the minds of his fellow Far Srs and the storage banks of their Keepers. Rack and Beautiful Wings left him to his labors. Home for Rack and Beautiful Wings was a dome of transparency, for Rack liked to see the outside. Home was also snugness and good air and happiness. Home was Beautiful Wings sleeping peacefully as he watched and waited for Red Earth's results. The survival factor was negative in the establishment's immiate area and the severity of the toxicity IF outside cast a pall over Rack's emotions. The readings of Red Earth confirmed, once he sent them, the predictions of the Far Seers of the east. He announced his finding by making individual contacts with far-flung Far Seers, calling for a council in the largest establishment available, the Eastern Establishment. He promised hope, but did not reveal that its source was a wild dream. The plan had several phases. Selected Power Givers transported Healers and Far Seers to the council. There was a drain on all and many perished. The storms were peaking and Rack, sensing the damage, wanted to spread himself to all of them and heal them, but he knew by some instinctive measuring quality in his head that the feat would be impossible and would result only in his own depletion. The gathering was small. Proceedings began with a dry, long-winded recital of the observations of the Far Seers, confirming once again the great threat to life on the planet. When it was agreed that the observations of the eastern Far Seers read the same as the new information gathered by Red Earth a period of discussion followed. New deaths were reported in sad pictures. Predictions of still more deaths left the gathering moodily silent. No one could actually believe the verdict of the data, the end of life in all the world, but the evidence was undeniable. '"Where," asked a young Far Seer attached to the Eastern Establishment, "is the hope you promised us, Red Earth? The Breathers die. The clouds stir the accumulated poisons. People are perishing." "He is among us," Red Earth said. R ack demonstrated. He merged, to Beautiful Wings' squirming displeasure, with a weakened Power Giver, bringing her back to strength. He ate, breathed, ' stored, demonstrated again with an ancient Far Seer, who was eased, but who was so near natural death that Rack was unable to do more than give him momentary comfort. "It is my hope," Red Earth said, "that the power has been latent in all Healers. We will listen as Rack the Healer explains. Then we will try to emulate him." Healers placed their small mouths on the odd heads of the Far Seers, on the mouths of the Power Givers, listening, seeing the pictures sent by Rack, who had the power. Far ers observed and concluded that the power in Rack came from a totally unknown section of the mind, a strangely shaped area which seemed to be missing completely in the other Healers. The experiment was abandoned. "Nature has sent the New One -- is it accepted?" Red Earth was an impressive figure, a natural leader. "It is accepted." "Would she send the New One without purpose?" A chorus of negative, negative. "There remains then only the problem of finding the purpose," Red Earth said. "And, for some time, she has been trying to tell us." He sent a picture of elapsed time, measuring back to Rack's trek to the valley of the hot waters. Next Red Earth projected the exact picture of the object Rack had found there. "This object, which has been studied by our foremost minds, was a message," Red Earth sent. Rack, who had been letting his mind wander, was brought to full attention. He had been unaware that such a study had been made. "The fact that nature told this Healer that it was time to dig -- " a shudder of fear passed through the assembly -- "was also a jnessage, a message we chose to ignore." Red Earth pushed on following a dramatic pause. "In the beginning nature imbued the Healers with a fascination for hard-material nuggets. To them they are beauty, wonder, possessions of esthetic worth, while the rest of us consider them useless. The reason for this apparent folly of nature is now clear. Do you see it?" He waited. His audience sent small, shamed negatives. Rack himself was silent, waiting to hear Red Earth's conclusion, trying to group his own confused thoughts regarding the nuggets, the piece of strange material, the whole of it. Red Earth continued: "Balanced against this curiosity, this yen for possession of the nuggets, was the ancient knowledge that to dig meant death. Thus it was for -- " Red Earth sent an incomprehensibly long picture of time and resumed: "yet, even as the planet died, nature had long since planted our salvation. It lay there in the valley of the hot waters, a strange and wonderful place -- for where in our tortured world does one find clean and pure water, good air, soft, unpoisoned soil? This valley did not form by accident, but as part of nature's design. For -- " again that picture of time -- "it has been there and Healers have always been a restless, wandering lot. But no Healer came upon this wondrous valley until Rack the New One set out on his summer explorations on that fateful sun circle. Had another Healer come upon this valley, he would have breathed the air, attended the beauty of the place, looked fornuggets -- but would he have dug?" Red Earth indicated a young Healer. "Would you have had the courage to go against the ancient teaching?" "I fear negative." IF "Only the New One would have had such daring," Red Earth said. Rack, embarrassed, said, "I felt that there was no danger. Then, too, I didn't dig. It was the water that dug." "Yet yours was an act of a New One," Red Earth continued, motioning for Rack to be patient, "and it was part of nature's intricate design. It was her intent for the New One to dig, to find new values, to unearth this object." He had it in his hand. "And this object has been adjudged by our best minds not to have its origin on this planet." Rack felt disappointment. "So," Red Earth continued, "this message from nature, this alien object, has come to us from where?" He paused. "A sister world? We who can contact such worlds know -- from the long lag in the sending and the receiving by our senses -- the distances involved. Yet there is another world, a world much closer, a world that spins around our own barely a short lag in senses away. The long string of events points to one thing. This strange object, which lay hidden under the soil until now, is a message sent by nature from that world. Our satellite." R ack thought Red Earth's  theory might have possibilities.  After having searched two continents for traces of the Old Ones he was prepared to consider longer reaches. Red Earth went on: "The message isVull of meaning. There is life on the satellite, obviously, for Rack the Healer's original contention that this is the remnant of a crafted object stands. Nothing in nature is like it. In this manner we are told that there is life on our sister world. We are told this in conjunction with great events, the accelerating pace of death on this planet, the emergence of the New One. We are all aware of the old values. We believe, deep in our souls, in the wisdom of nature. We know that planets, worlds, are the home of life. We know that nature in her wisdom makes it possible for life to continue. We, in our ignorance of her grand design, cannot envision the continuation of life under the worsening conditions -- but is she asking us for action?" Rack remembered his hazy, almost blasphemous thinking in regard to the manipulation of the environment by man. Red Earth himself was now treading on new and daring ground. The squirmings of the assembly confirmed it. "I say she is. I say that sheis telling us that we must act now. And I say the message is clear. She is informing us that there is some connection between life on our nearest sister world and our own survival." "If the message is clear to you, Red Earth, I wish you would share the knowledge," said an old Far Seer dryly. 'So I shall," Red Earth retorted. "The import of all of these events is simple. It is intended that the New One and his mate. Beautiful Wings the Power Giver, soar to the world that rises each night in our eastern skies." R ack started. Had the sly old  Far Seer been prying into his private fantasies? Around him he heard mutters of disbelief. Beautiful Wings looked at him, a sudden cold fear radiating from her mind. A doubtful Far Seer named Gray Body asked, "If the difficulties, and there are many, are overcome -- if the New One reaches the satellite and finds life there -- how will this save us?" "If we could fathom nature's ways, we would have all the answers," Red Earth said. "Since we do not we must ' proceed with faith. The object found by the New One is my basis for belief. The inhabitants of the satellite world have crafted the thing with a skill far beyond ours. As you may know, this material is impregnable to the acids of the atmosphere. It is not workable with tools fashioned from the Material, h is truly wonderful. Contact with such people would perhaps provide us with the techniques we would need to alter the falling survival factor." Red Earth's questioner sent objection. "If this wonderful race of people is so advanced, why has it not made the far flight to our world -- rather than wait for us to make the contact?" "For this," Red Earth agreed, "I have no answer. I merely repeat my faith. The events of nature are never without logic. Even the fatal winter storms follow a prescribed pattern imposed by the movements of the planet -- the tilt of the planet on its axis, the position of the satellite and the strength of emissions of the sun. Not even death is random in nature, for it takes the old at the prescribed time. I contend that the seemingly random happenings, if we could but understand them, are all a part of the whole. I contend that the' nature of the Healers, combined with the lure of the solid nuggets of hard material, the emergence of the New One, the conclusions of doom for life on our world, are all part of nature's scheme to send us into space. What we will find there I do not know." He paused, continued sadly. "It is against my teachings and my belief, but we must, in this crucial time, consider all possir bilities. Perhaps we err in our understanding -- and I project a shocking picture, I know. I defend it from charges of blasphemy on the grounds of scientific speculation. Is it totally inconceivable to IF think that life, sacred as it is, is confined to this planet?" It was indeed a shocking picture, but the seriousness of the times allowed it. "Should this be so -- and I pray to nature that it is not -- then her design could be, just could be, to pass this life along to a fresh, clean, pure-aired world. In short, the abilities of Rack the New One could be gifted to him for the sole purpose of transplanting life from this dying planet to a new one. How often, in history, does a union produce such a lasting relationship?" He indicated Rack and Beautiful Wings, hand in hand, the Power Giver pale and fearful, 'its strength can be felt, even now." "I cannot accept the possibility of ' extinction of life on the planet," said a bold Healer.  "Nor can I," agreed Red Earth. "But can we risk going against nature's obvious directives?" "There is merit in your thoughts," sighed the old, wise Far Seer who had been given momentary relief from the aches of old age by Rack. "I will be a part of the study." "Welcome," Red Earth said. "For it will take the powers of many to prepare such a venture. Time will be required. If it were possible to send the New One soaring to the satellite today, I would be fearful that we were making a wrong decision, but we will have time to study as we plan. Should events occur to prove us wrong we will have done nothing more serious than waste the time of those who have little time remaining. Should, for example, nature decree a new joining for the New One we can but hope for a breeder for his offspring to carry his seed. This possibility has not been neglected in my thinking, but I do not hold forth hope. Our recent readings indicate that not even the abilities of many New Ones would keep alive our people in a sufficient picture . to carry our civilization forward. At best the breeding of a new New One from Rack's loins would buy us another generation of life before the conditions wiped out even the New Ones, for our conclusions are that the worsening of the survival conditions is irreversible. Still, we have lime. Perhaps something will be revealed to us. If not, in the end, we have only the clear messages. Rack the New One and his chosen mate. Beautiful Wings, shall journey "into the cold of airless space in search of the salvation of life." He stood silent. When the buzzing thoughts stilled, he sent, "Is it agreed?" "Affirmative, affirmative," the assembly sent. "But you haven't even asked us what we think," Beautiful Wings wailed, picturing death, vast empty space, unknown worlds. "We know you will do your duty, whatever it is," Red Earth said soothingly. 'Mt is the nature of the Power Givers to be fearful," Rack sent. "We will do our duty." He touched her with his armored hand, sent his mind to blend with hers, quieted her  fears. She, feeling his strength, was reassured. "Yes," she said. "We will do our duty." XI R ed earth had moved his  site of operations at least temporarily to the large dome of the Eastern Group EstabNshment. Space was need to house the team which had been put together carefully to plan and execute the grand, hopeful soar of Rack the Healer and Beautiful Wings the Power Giver. In addition to Rack, Beautiful Wings and Red Earth, the group consisted of Shadow on the Moon, an aptly named young Far Seer who had spent much time in study of the satellite; Yellow Sky the Power Giver, who, to conserve the energy of Beautiful Wings, was to make some test soars with Rack and, for the balancing value of his skeptical mind, the ancient Far Seer Gray Body. Supplemental to these were additional Healers and Keepers, the Healers to perform any needed goings fbout in the forbidding storms, the Keepers to assure detailed records xf the events. Since the Eastern Group Establishment had to continue' its function as the prime source of broth and the Material, the extra bodies inside the large dome strained the available resources and made demands on privacy. However, no one grumbled. "Rack the New One," Red Earth said, "has been responsible for creating in my brain a new concept of the order of things. In his eagerness to prove the existence, nay, even the abilities of the Old Ones, he set me to speculating about the nature of life on this world and on our sister worlds. On our world, at least in the beginning, life had many forms. Have you ever considered the meaning of some of our traditional name pictures? For example, that of our late brother. Growing Tree the Far Seer. His name picture is something from the young days of our world when the soil was less toxic and could support vegetable life of an amazing complexity. His picture is of a large, growing thing, green and fragile. In our records one Finds many such names, one of the more noted being the picture of Rose the Healer. His name picture suggests something of beauty, a bright, fragile, short-lived thing of the soil. Some of our other traditional names suggest that there was, in addition IF to vegetation, life of other sorts in the youthful days of the planet. Flying things. Indeed, our own Juicers show vestigial wings. And the young of the Juicers are wing before their change. It is reasonable, then, to think that nature adjusts her life to planetary conditions, providing variety for the sake of beauty and perhaps for some practical purpose unknown to us. She also makes her changes as conditions alter in the accepted order of decay. She does not, I believe, destroy life, but alters its forms, utilizing the life force. Some believe that there is a measurable quantity of life allotted to each world. Should this be true, then the life force which lives in our bodies could have, in the past, furnished animation to beings beyond our imagination. At this stage of our world's development life is concentrated in a small picture of forms -- the four forms of us, the two of insects and the combination of vegetation and animal which is the Breather. To think of the logic of this arrangement is to accept the concept of infallible nature. You may point to the poison things of the sink holes and question this statement, but who is to say that those poison things do not have a place in the future of life? We do not know the exact form of the Old Ones, but we do know that the change was a drastic one from Old One to the first Healer. Our New One, the logical advancement of nature, assuming that Rack the Healer's change is incomplete and will be perfected in some future birth, could be so radically different as to be able to utilize the poison things of the sink holes for his own good." "It would, indeed, seem that nothing is random in nature," agreed Gray Body, the old Far Seer. "But in restating it. Red Earth, my brother, are you not seeking to ease the doubts in your mind regarding our present course of action?" "I shall not deny certain misgivings," Red Earth said. "Some of them are not in keeping with logic, for the pain I feel when I think of losing the presence of two of my fellow beings is purely emotional and not at all fitting for the logical mind of a Far Seer." "You will not lose, but gain," Rack said. "For the success of our journey will bring changes. We, having replenished our stores dn the new, sweet world, will return, bringing to you the wisdom of our brothers there." "It pleases me to think so," Red Earth said. "The thought of such a journey is, of course, pleasing to a Healer, who is notoriously footloose," Gray Body sent. "And I fear that one possible outcome of this venture is to be measured only in the pleasures received by those involved, a Healer who will sec more of the universe than any Healer before him, a Power Giver who is to make a soar that will diminish all past soars. Should you find an empty world there -- and no wise brothers -- you will still be tempted to return, for it is horrible to imagine an empty world. Then what will you bring us?" "Yes," Red Earth agreed. "Should you discover a world empty of intelligent life, then you must suffer the loneliness. You must stay. You will breed, for nature will not let life die on two worlds. You will tint again and give birth and tint again to produce breeding couples to people the new world. We must believe so." "But if we can accept this blasphemy," asked one of the Healers, "then should we not also entertain other blasphemies and at least consider random factors as such?" Red Earth said, "We come once again to faith. Compare the early pictures of this world, the fruitful, varied forms of life, the rich, sweet air and the variety of foods. Consider the pictures in the Book of Rose the Healer of the Old Ones dying in vast pictures of bodies -- compare those with the small picture of our ' population. Is it not logical, assuming that there is a constant life force. that we, as individuals, are allotted a larger picture of life force than was allotted to the Old Ones, thus explaining our superiority? Is it not possible that there is a life force on a new, empty world, waiting to inhabit the body of life? One of the possibilities is that Rack and Beautiful Wings will find an empty planet, true. But it is just as llievable to think that nature awaits them with a reserve of life force which, once absorbed, will make them more than they are." "Your faith makes me feel humble," said Gray Body. "What else is there?" Rack asked. 'J share Red Earth's faith. Nature has never deserted us. She has given us good life in the past, with pockets of sweet air and quantities of broth. She has made us thinking beings who can see beauty. A mother will not abandon her children." "It is time," Red Earth said, "to leave our speculation and apply ourselves to the task at hand... Shadow on the Moon, the youngest Far Seer who studies the satellite, will outline some of the difficulties." tated by the attention, began his presentation. "Our senses tell us of large mountains and valleys. We think -- since on our world the rains and the winds have eaten our mountains -- that IF this fact alone assures a supply of good air, for uneroded mountains indicate a youthful world. Thus we anticipate no difficulty once the satellite is reached. The dangers lie in the journey through airless space. For there the particles are so scattered, so few, that not even the lungs of a powerful Healer such as Rack could find breath. Enough air must be stored for Rack and his Power Giver to sustain life for -- " He sent a picture of days that startled Rack. "It is not within the power of Rack the Healer," he said. "So," Shadow on the Moon went on, "it is necessary to provide a store of air and food. I have considered the possibilities. To pack so much would entail a pack of -- " He pictured an unwieldy proportion. "This being undesirable, I have suggested an alternate course." He sent a picture of a small establishment, constructed of the Material, complete with Breather tanks and broth vessels. "The bulk will be far too great," Rack said, thinking of the drain on Beautiful Wings. ' "Ordinarily, yes," Shadow on the Moon said. "But there are certain differences between a soar such as we contemplate and a simple soar within the range of our planet's pull." He indicated Beautiful Wings. "Your senses tell you of the nature of the force which surrounds our world. Can you picture the extent of the force?" She concentrated. "I have never considered it. I have soared high, but I have not felt any diminishing of the power that tugs me back." "There is greater perceptivity through the senses of a Far Seer." Red Earth said. "We, too, can see the force of our planet," Shadow on the Moon said. "We cannot utilize it, as dp the Power Givers, but our sight extends into the' airlessness of space. There, at certain distances, we note a decrease in the power. It is therefore our contention, after careful study, that less power would be required farther out. We see a similar force surrounding the satellite -- a smaller force because it is a smaller world. Past a certain point a Power Giver could cease her work, allowing the pull of the sister world to furnish the motive power." "But," said Beautiful Wings, "in my idle play I have, fallen when I have not used my power. If I allow myself to fall for too long the power needed to stop is far greater than the power need for a simple soar." "True. That, too, is in our thoughts," Shadow on the Moon said. "We must measure the force needed. For this I suggest practice soars. We measure the force of our planet's pull and compare it with that of the sister world. Then we shall know the power needed to stop the soar. It will be great, perhaps too great, for the soar in airless space must be faster than any we know." He pictured the drop and once again Rack was awed. T here were other difficulties. As the plans were made they seemed to grow until they burdened Rack's mind. The vast picture of distance intimidated him, made him fear, though less for himself than for Beautiful Wings. Never before had such a great demand been made on the gifts of a Power Giver. And as the workers constructed the small establishment that would protect the soarers from the cold airlessness . of space -- Rack watched and weighed with his mind and despaired. However, he did his duty. He stored by eating far more than his usual amount, breathing the rich. Breather-made air until his cells -- and the new cells added in the form of surplus -- were fat with air. He felt bulky, but he knew that each bit of added reserve gave him that rhuch more to share with Beautiful Wings. To cover all eventualities it was decided that an attempt should be made to teach Rack and Beautiful Wings the techniques of food and Material making. Eggs of the Webbers and the Juicers would be stored in the flying establishment to be hatched, should they find an empty but clean-aired world. Tending the sources of the materials that made the Material was Far Seer responsibility, but Rack went at the lessons with a will. The insects, accustomed only to the mind patterns of the Far Seers, were made restless at first by the presence of others. Rack studied the soothing patterns sent by the Far Seers, duplicated them, became at ease with the hairy Webbers. He carefully stayed out of reach of the vicious stingers of the Juicers, but managed to master the technique of milking the creatures. It was up to Beautiful Wings to use her power to combine the two extracts and after much experimentation she was partially successful. Red Earth assured her that before departure date she would be as adept at making Material and at brewing broth as a Far Seer. Meanwhile the flying establishment had been completed, stocked with Breathers and was waiting. The group gathered. Rack and Beautiful Wings entered, closed the lock, lay on the comfortable rack. He merged with her and she lifted, her area of power enclosing the establishment, lifting it to the ceiling of the dome and holding it there effortlessly, with Rack's substance and power funneling through their blended flesh to heal and help. Rack was encouraged, forhe flying establishment added IF only a tiny picture to the drain on their joint resources. It was time to test the drain in actual soaring. For this Yellow Sky the Power Giver, young and considered beautiful, was to be united with Rack -- by decree of the Far Seers. Yellow Sky did not hide her delight at the prospect. "I fail to understand why, if I am to be the one who makes the soar, I cannot go with you," Beautiful Wings vehemently protested to Rack. "We must conserve your resources," Red Earth said impatiently when her protest reached him. Beautiful Wings, sending halfconcealed pictures of jealousy, watched as Rack touched his tongue to the tongue of Yellow Sky, merged, began his magic and the flying establishment was lifted rapidly into the dark, swirKng clouds. Rack sent back pictures of his condition and the condition of the Power Giver to the minds of the Far Seers. The establishment burst through the clouds into the blackness of the upper air. Yellow Sky had taken them up swiftly, as if to prove to all that she, as well as Beautiful Wings, could power the soar. Rack, in contact with Shadow on the Moon, directed her to slow down and hover. Motionless, the flying enclosure was almost invisible against the space beyond it, other Power Givers reported. The view below was blocked by the most terrible winter storms in history. Rack had a foretaste of loneliness. Yet he and Yellow Sky were not alone, for the minds of the Far Seers held them, checked them, measured their expenditure of substance. Exultant, not penalized in the slightest by the fast, heavy lift, the Power Giver radiated joy. Rack, however, was slighty uncomfortable. His mouth to hers, his tongue-flesh merged with hers, he knew the vague unease that always came to him in a merge with anyone other than Beautiful Wings. He was relieved when the Far Seers had enough information to allow the soar to end. He sought seclusion immediately within his chamber at the Eastern Establishment. That he was being selflsh did not occur to him until Beautiful Wings entered softly. He looked up, arranging his features into an expression denoting pleasure. "Did you not even want to see me?" she asked. "Of course," he said. "I was merely tired." "Yet we have soared the wide sea without fatigue," she reminded him. She was defenseless against his probing mind. Their long closeness had robbed her of the ability to close her mind to him. He entered. What he found hurt him. "You are the most foolish of Power Givers," he told her with a gentle fondness. "Do you think I could forget so quickly?" He sent pictures of the repeated joining and she melted, coming to touch him. "I will not allow you to merge with her again," she said. He laughed. "Then you shall be the one who explains it to Red Earth." But he sent such a wave of love that she purred aloud. flying establishment could be soared relatively easily only a few tests remained. With Beautiful Wings trying to be unconcerned, but not ting successful in hiding her pique from Rack, the load was lifted once more by Yellow Sky. At the height of the soar, in the thin air of near space, they hovered. Under the guidance of the mind of Shadow on the Moon the flying establishment moved in an arc corresponding to the curve of the planet. Faster and faster it was pushed. Rack sending his energies into the body of the Power Giver. Just as the contact wks about to be broken by the curvature of the planet they were told to slow, make a sweeping turn, come back. Then the establishment moved up, up, at an increasing rate of speed -- the strain was felt even in Rack's strong body. They returned to find excitement in the minds of the Far Seers. The reason was the relative reading of power expended in the two methods of gaining speed. One more test was required to confirm the thinking of the Far Seers. And to the relief of Beautiful Wings it was decided to use the team that would make the final long soar. Rack found joy in being merged once again with Beautiful Wings. He knew her as he knew no other person, knew the vibrant life force of her, the gladness with which she merged, the inner workings of her organs, the miraculous beauty of her cellular structure. His mind sang with hers as she lifted the thin bubble through the toxic clouds to the bright sunlight, the cold, thin air. Up and up they went slowly, conserving energy. And then they followed the curve of the planet. Just before contact was lost the mind of Shadow on the Moon directed them to level, engage the power of Beautiful Wings' mind, push the flying establishment faster, faster. There was no sensation of speed. Blocked by the curve of the home planet from the mind of the Far Seer, they relied on an instinctive sense of timing to halt the force, to rest light and free as their bodies floated  gently from the rack. Disengaged, they examined the situation. The senses of the Power Giver felt the pull from below, but felt also another force that counteracted it, kept the IF flying establishment circling the planet at a far height no energies being expended. They entered the dark of a space night, emerged into the sun, the minds of the Far Seers coming into contact, measuring jubilantly. After another circle of the planet at a speed never before attained they came down, the mind of the Power Giver breaking' the unseen force that had held them at an equal distance from the planet's surface, then letting the pull of the planet drag them down, down, to slow and settle to the planet. Rack had difficulty understanding the pictures in the minds of the Far Seers. But Beautiful Wings, whose instinctive knowledge of planet fields and pull was inbred, grasped the pictures easily. Together, minds blended, they would be able to follow the exact instructions of the Far Seers. Moreover, throughout the early stages of the soar, they would be in mind contact with Shadow on the Moon. In his mind the wheelings of the worlds were precise pictures and his logic' could send the pictures ahead in time to anticipate the exact location of the sister worlds at any given moment. He had come up with a daring theory to save energy. Upon the approach to the sister world the flying establishment would be speeding through space at a huge picture of velocity. Having measured the strength of the power used by Beautiful Wings and other Power Givers in stopping the fall of their own bodies toward the planet, he pictured the force needed to slow the flying establishment wfth the weight of Rack and Beautiful Wings , inside. To stop the motion would cost dearly if Beautiful Wings forced herself directly against the satellite and came to a direct landing. Shadow on the Moon thought it possible to allow the pull of the satellite itself to slow the soar. Rack tried hard to capture the concept, but it was difficult. He left such technicalities to the Far Seers and Power Givers, confident that they were right when they said that the flying establishment should not aim directly at the satellite, but nearby, swinging past to allow the pull of the world to slow the forward motion, curve it into a circle around the satellite. From that point power would be used sparingly to slow the motfon and allow the tug of the satellite to bring the establishment down to a site selected by Rack and Beautiful Wings. Preparations were complete. Qn a dark night in the low end of the sun circle, with the howling storms lifting all the settled heavy gases into the already toxic atmosphere, the group gathered and listened to a recital of the deaths of the season. There were blank spaces in the thin web of life force around the continent. Death stalked the world and dampened the anticipation of the great event. The aching knowledge of loss added a sense of urgency to the last-minute activity as Healers stored good air and broth in the flying establishment, placed fresh, healthy Breathers in the tanks, stored the eggs of the Webbers and Juicers in their containers. Sleepless, Rack lay with his armored hand on the flank of Beautiful Wings. He felt her shift in sleep, heard the sound of her lungs using the good, sweet air. The place was quiet, work at a halt. Through the thin walls he could har the sigh of the winds. On his scales he could feel the occasional particle that made its way through the resistance of the walls. He wished for the abilities of the Far Seers, so that he could send his mind up beyond the lowering clouds to feel the swing of the worlds. ' He considered his life and it was good. He had seen much, done much. His was the greatest adventure ever given to Healer and the fate of his world hung on him. But he was Rack the Healer, young, strong, confident. He did not know fear. Healer, called the New One, sent back to the minds of the Keepers from a point where the planet is a yellow-purple brightness, round and good and beautiful These are the thoughts of Rack, sent from space. For my daughter, the Keeper, whose name I do not know, who can store and keep but who can never know me. For those we love, Red Earth and Shadow on the Moon and Gray Body, Far Seers of great knowledge. For those who helped, for Yellow Sky the Power Giver and for our brothers and sisters on the Eastern Continent, whom we greet. Our thoughts travel to them as well asio our homeland, for here, where the planet is a smallness below us, our thoughts spread easily through the clear vastness, the cold, the growing picture of distance. Know you, my brothers, my sisters, that your force is felt even here. Tender but strong emotions follow us, making us feel the life force, labeling our world as one of the favored of nature, one on which the life force glows brightly. We are abje even now to feel the reassuring warmth of the combined minds of you. Red Earth, and you. Shadow On the Moon, and you. Gray Body. We know at what cost you are sending us your guidance, for the distance is great and the sky is thick with poisons. And before we pass beyond the strength of our weak powers, beyond that point where our combined sendings are lost to the combined listenings of the best minds IF of our world, , Rack the Healer, presume to speak  to clutter the vaults of the Keepers minds with my thoughts in the hope that future generations might gain from our experience. You have seen the deadly yellows and the dark, swirling air. You have, some of you, received the gift of a high soar, have risen beyond the obscuring darkness into light to see the universe with its depths of black and its sparkles of suns. For you I view the scene, sending it to be recorded forever. The roundness of the planet is becoming sharper in outline as we rise. The cold is even now beginning to be felt inside our establishment.  fpel it for all.  ruffle my scales, making them receive the direct rays of the sun, feeling its hard particles bounce and send energy into me, feeling the warmth which is not felt in the air of the establishment, but which I use and share with the one who, welded to me flesh on flesh, uses her wondrous mind to lift us, uses my strength to fly. We leave the dying world behind. The night of space is black in the circle of my eyes and the sun a brightness which, without the protection of my outer lids, I cannot endure. Even as I send and record my poor thoughts alongside those of my betters, I receive and obey the learned thinking of the Far Seers guiding our soar. Now the forces equalize and we float effortlessly above the clouds, which from this vantage point lose their deadliness and are merely beautiful mottles of color, making the planet invisible to our eyes. Into the cold shadow of the planet we fly and  feel the slowness of my blood and giie of my warmth to the differently gifted Power Giver. I am measuring time and when, at the precise moment determined by the mind of Shadow on the Moon, we surge, using all our combined power, I bid you, my world, temporary farewell and send you my love and ask yours in return. For we are not of this world now but from it, in the hostile vastness of space, an emptiness that makes the airless plains of glass seem like paradise. Ah, to see the world not below, but out there, seemingly close enough to touch. To see it shrink and become a glove of yellowishpurple and to watch the march of the giant winter storms. The air swirls into a circle covering the southern seas, where the Breathers grow. The sun, harsh, unpitying, lashes all, glares, reflects. And there we see the satellite, our goal. We are pushing toward it, using our power, feeling the drain. We rest, eat, refresh ourselves. And then we push again and I feekthe accumulated fat of my system being used, feel myself shrinking -- I am the old Rack, trim, hard. Still we push and there is no sensation of speed or movement. We know only by the resistance to our power that W. are moving and by the steadily shrinking planet behind us. iVe will push for a period of time and then rest. ness is terrible. We know now that life loves life and needs its presence. Experience our loneliness with us and value your fellows. For here is no friendly life glow from the next establishment -- only emptiness, a vast void. X And as wf drift, moving at a speed which is beyond my meager comprehension, as the minds of our friends grow feeble in the distance, I exult, for surely we shall achieve our goal and bring continued life to our world.  sing the song of Rack the Healer, called the New One, asking the indulgence of my brothers and sisters, for we are lonely and we are so vast a distance from the glow of life and our homes and even as we trust in the goodness of nature we fear. I sing of my love, of Beautiful Wings the Power Giver, with whom  have joined in repetition to produce the life of a Keeper, thus contributing to the balance of nature.  sing of her beauty, for she is a Power Giver among Power Givers and blessed with a sense of joy in sharing my love. I sing of our union, for it lasted past the tinting and became deep. I sing of our togetherness as we merge to let me share with her and heal the damages of raw sunlight. I sing of her delicate scales, of flashing colors and her slim legs of strength and her arms of warmth and her pink-tinged gills which remind me of the glory of her tinting.  inscribe her name on the records of Qur race, to be remembered, for she risked much. She soared into the poison of the winter storms to find me, saving me for herself and for this, for myself and for life. I sing of Red Earth the Far Seer, who did his duty, which was to attend the ancient laws, thus following natures design and leading to this. May his life be long with many moments of pleasure with young and beautiful Keepers. To him I entrust my memory, my establishment, my nuggets of hard material -- and may he find beauty in them, for beauty is nature s gift to all, not simply to Healers.  sing of Shadow on the Moon the Far Seer, whose wisdow lifted us, guided us, whose strong mind still comforts us. And of Gray Body the Far Seer, whose doubts made us think and work harder to seek this opportunity to do good for the race. I sing of Yellow Sky the Power Giver and remember gratefully her soars with me and I send her my thanks and my love and a wish for an early tinting and a production of life. I sing of the cold of space, which slows my thoughts. I sing of the hard sun, which glares and burns and makes ashes gather on my IF scales: the cruel sun, from which I shield Beautiful Wings with my stronger body. I sing of the growing sister world with its brightness and shadows. It looms there, waiting, waiting, with its gifts.  sing, reluctantly, of my doubts.  am weak and I fear and think of finding emptiness. But should such disaster overtake us weep not for Rack the Healer and Beautiful Wings the Power Giver, for we have enjoyed much and have known the awesome wheelings of the worlds from afar. Think then only that this was a folly of man, not of nature, for the faith is kept as long as the life force is vibrant on our world. I sing of my hope.  sing of anticipated greetings from brothers and sisters on our sister world in a place of sweet air and plentiful food and undiminished life. I sing of our return to bring hope and word of renewal. I sing, alternately, of loneliness, of two of us alone on a vast world, building life, if that be ordained.  add my thoughts to those of Rose the Healer, who was young with our race. Rose the Healer said that the bodies of the Old Ones littered the Earth, leading me to think that nature at times can be cruel. I wish I could have seen the world as it was, young, with growing things and multiple forms of life. Perhaps we, at the end of our journey, will find such a place, replenish ourselves, return to you with many secrets. And as I dream. I dream of moving the race to this fresh, new world where ho one wants for air and the gentle sun warms even the frail, unprotected hides of the youngest and most tender. Many questions assault my niind. Will there be a powerful life force on this new world to make me strong enough to soar across the emptiness and carry on my own back all life to this new beginning? Our Breathers die, but the supply will be ample, for we pass from the pull of the home world to the tug of the new growing steadily ahead of us, and the senses of my love feel it. It is a confirmation of the power of the mind to find that the thoughts of Shadow on the Moon the Far Seer were accurate. We burn and freeze. My scales coat themselves with ash. It clutters the establishment,  is breathed and expelled through our gills. my love. For she is used, even with my healing. The strain, as we apply our power to slow ourselves slightly, is felt to the core of my deepest cells, for I have used my reserves and feel myl weight go down as we face the pull of the new world. I will breathe deeply of the air and eat of the broth held in reserve. I will send my strength into her, healing her, bringing her back, for I weep with her wasted substance and, for the first time, doubt our combined wisdom. For had we not chosen to venture into this vast cold we would be snugly established amid the storms blowing. Selfishly  dream of wasted time, the time allotted to us even with a world dying about us, for we would have lived and blended our minds for our given span. We would have lived the memory of our union and, blessed with another.  recall how in a northern establishment, with the frost sparkling on the earth, we joined. We tinted. She flowered. Her breast buds were tender and sweet and  saw them suckled by our issue, by the Keeper whose name  do not know... Weakened, we near our goal. It is fortunate that we calculated enough stored air. Just enough broth. Just so many Breathers, for the load has been great and the cold has drained us and ahead is the final surge of power. I rest fitfully.  dream that my love tints, that  tint. I see her scales flowering and see the emergence of the ruby beauty from deep within her. I dream, waking. No. She tints. My love tints. In her weakness there is about her lower regions a definite tint and a hint of flowering on the chest. Bless nature. Bless nature. It could only be natures plan. I will tint. I feel it. I feel the preliminary tinglings. Below, on a new world, we will find a union. It is nature s will. Sadly I wonder. Are we then to stay, to build a life force on this new world? We sing and the voices of our minds are weak for traveling far, hopefully to be gathered in by the com bing strength of the Far Seers. We are behind the satellite, hidden from our home planet. Farewell. Farewell. We will lower now to find our destiny. J. the New One by Red Earth the Far Seer, my thoughts. The principle of interplanetary soaring is proven and praise is due to the work of all who were involved, but especially to Shadow on the Moon the Far Seer who sensed the movements of the worlds to such an accurate degree that the soar was made within the tolerance of our measurements. I, Red Earth the Far Seer, now record the time in pictures of sun circles, satellite movements and tilt of the planet. I record the duration of the soar in terms of the rising and Tailing sun. I record minute cell counts and am amazed. Rack is, truly, the New One, for the expenditure of his substance was beyond the endurance of any Healer. I record that the foregoing final segment of the Book of Rack the Healer was received by the combined minds of the Far Seers much IF as it is recorded, with interpolations by Deep Diver the Healer. These were necessary due to the weakness of the thoughts from far space, received sporadically and sometimes altered by the toxic storms. Yet it is felt that we have preserved the essence of the thoughts of Rack the New One. We wait. The survival factor allows little outside activity and the food stores dwindle, but there is a new beginning always -- and with each new beginning there is hope. As I wait I record the thoughts that haunt me. I am especially impressed by one of the last clear thoughts received. That tinting was in process is beyond doubt, for the excitement strengthened Rack's thoughts and made them clear. I speculate. Could this mean that nature's plan is to establish life on the new world? To myself and to the private banks of my Keeper I confess that this is my belief, as indeed it was all along. Old beliefs die hard and all my hope springs up to think that they will return with information, with ways of keeping life on the world. Yet the indications, the tinting, the reported weakness of the Power Giver, all tend to convince me that the new one was born out of nature's design to transplant the seed of life from this dying world to another. But there is another fear. We received the thought of a clearly visible world. This is strange, for air in all recorded history has been dense with clouds. We know that clouds contain many substances, most of which are of little or no use to life. But what if, in nature's incomprehensible overall plan, those substances that cloud the air serve some small purpose? Would it be possible for life to exist and merge and produce more life in a completely clean-aired world? I would have breathed easier had there been a report of moderate cloud cover on our sister planet. I can send out my senses, penetrate the clouds, cover the vast distance to the satellite in a span of time only a tiny picture of the time consumed by the soar. I can then feel the response bouncing back and measure the density of the soil of the satellite and it is soil, rock, solidity. I cannot penetrate to the depths. I cannot detect the presence or lack of air or water or any other substance. I cannot, of course, detect the minute forms of life there. Rack the New One and Beautiful Wings the Power Giver. I can only wait. Perhaps, in time, other New Ones may spring forth. We search all the new-born Healers, trying to detect that strange, new area of the brain which gives Rack the New One his ability to merge physically with another. We find nothing. We have sacrificed the best sun circles of the life of a Power Giver to carry a message to our brothers across the sea, telling them of the New One, warning them to be on the lookout for others. We wait. We can couple with our Keepers and forget for a short span of time, but there is always the outside, the growing toxicity, the diminishing survival factor. And we wait. It is more and more evident that the fate of all life on this planet is dependent on the findings of Rack the New One in the distant reaches of space. Blink Priority Urgent Urgent Cmmd. Xanthos II, Attention urged High Admiral Jackson G. Sparks. I P-#. Inhabited Humanoid. N.Y. #, Month #, Day #, U.P.X. Pharos, Capt. Bradley J. Gore, Cmmd., blink beaconed Chicago class star, position R-#, V-#, H-#, L-#, Sector P-#, Tri-Chart Ref. P-#-#. (See attached survey charts.) Short blink Expo, scouts Pharos IV and V, beginning Month #, Day # resulted planetary system planet life Zone A-I. (Attached survey chart position sun R-#, V-#, H-#, L-#.) lifetype; Class I-B Humanoid. C-Scale; Questionable. (See attached Tri-Tape Personal-Personal Capt. Bradley J. Gore to High Admiral Jackson G. Sparks.) Possible T rating T-I or T-#, possible P-# or P-#. but with extensive use biological material formed from extracts two insect forms; durable, radiation resistant, highly flexible use in building, making seldom-worn clothing and utilitarian objects. heavy gases lethal quantities. (See atmo-analysis attached.) Vetation; limited. Soil Condition; critical. (See agri-analysis attached.) Life Scale; Under study. Technology; Limited production IF aforementioned biological building material and liquid all-purpose food extracted from speciflc algal type sea plant. language: None. Repeat. None. Communication via telepathic pictures. population: Number unknown. Four distinct racial types living in symbiosis. number system. Thus, questions regarding population answered in incomprehensible picture showing numbers estimated in thousands for population density. Difficulty reconciling pictures from .alien minds with number system. (See Tri-Tape, Janti-IIl Planet Sector P #.) endangered by rapidly deteriorating planetary conditions. Oxygen replenishment factor:.#. Atmospheric life factor:#. Population factor:#. #I Planet, Sector P-#, Xanthos II type sun, position K-S#, V-#,H-#, L-#. signed: Bradley J. Gore, Capt., Cmind. U.P.X. Pharos. Blink Priority Urgent-Urgent Endorsements Blinkstat Capt. Bradley J. Gore, Cmmd., U.P.X. Pharos, Sector P-#, N.Y. #, Month #, Day #. Smith, Adm. Cmmd. Sector P-#: Affirmative. Tarsus, Adm., Cmmd P-Group # XA: Affirmative. Larkins, H. Adm. Hdq. # Troup XA, Pegram IV: Rec. further study. Note: Discretion H. Adm. Larkins, Hdq. # Troup XA, Pegram , IV, info, presented representatives civilian board. Results: Inconclusive. Evers, H. Adm. (R), President Xanthos U.: Rec. further study. Parthin, Avery (Miss), President's Board Applied Humanity, U.P. Central: Rec. affirmative request Capt. Bradley J. Gore. Bragg, Amos, Chm. Board Natural Resources, U.P. Central: Rec. hearing before Combined Congress, U.P. Fulton, Grory, Asst. Pres. George O. Borne, U.P. Central: Rec. detailed study planetary conditions. Personal #-A Blink Priority Urgent-Urgent Personal-Personal Cmmd. Hdq. Sect. #, Xanthos II. (Transcript verbal content Tri-Tape Personal-Personal Ref: F-#-#-B-#-AX#.) from way back. You've always said that I didn't like to follow the system and that is explanation enough, I suppose, for the rank I hold. I like to think I'm a man who dislikes the planetary piles of red tape that have been thrown up around Exploration and Alien Search work. I know you're already saying, Same old Brad. I guess you're right. I've been known to go out on a limb. Remember the time I called a three-buck pass in the championship game between the Academy and Xanthos U? We lost, but it was because some little bastard on the Xanthos team missed his assignment and was in the wrong grid and the ball hit him right in the chest, but then I've always been a high roller, haven't I? Jack, I'm not used to this type of communication. I don't like looking into those glassy little eyes in front of me. I hope you'll excuse my appearance. I'm just in from planetside. I really don't know where to start. Maybe I should begin about # New Years back. I know you're a student of history, but please be patient with me. I remember having to crib from your notes to get ready for the final exams, so my trying to refresh your memory on history is not the idea. I just need to ramble a little until I get this thing straight in my mind. This is a little more than a lower rank imposing on his superior. You owe me because you're the bastard, if you'll pardon the familiarity, Admiral, who talked me into XA in the first place when I had my mind set on Intersystem Transport, where the loot is. You turned me on with that summer trip to old Terra II. Damn, my back sits up and aches when I think of the digging we did. Remember? We were camped there on that ruined world jeside a river that had been killed and never had the IF chance to come back to life. We speculated about what kind of junk they dumped into it -- so much of it that the stream still hadn't come back to life a few millennia after the last people had given up trying to revive the world and left it for greener places. We couldn't believe it was possible to kill a planet, but there was the living proof and we decided that it was a phase we went through as a race. I remember how the soil had all been eroded away and how the rock stuck through like bare bones and how there was almost no vegetation. But Jack, dead as Terra II was, there was life on her. There were crawling things and flying things and there was air, even if it did stink. I've had a lot of time, during these past few weeks, while that fruity little telepath, Janti, you stuck me with has been lifting the skulls of these poor bastards on this godforsaken little planet, to think and remember what we talked about. We talked about the destiny of the race and we always went back, if you remember, to that big question of who the hell are we? You're supposed to stop asking that question when you leave the college soph coffee tables, but I think, the whole XA program is just another way of phrasing it. I'm amazed that we are not able to answer the question. Hell, we've been in space for thirty thousand years and we still don't know whether or not we had parents or whether we were just laid out on a flat rock in the sun somewhere. I 'VE been thinking about the way you explained our inability to trace our racial origin. You said that the average man can't even tell you his great-grandfather's name and damn it, you were right. I couldn't tell you mine. You said that it wasn't strange to think that a race might forget or lose track of its origin over some # N.Y. You laughed at me when I went back to the Academy and started digging into the records to trace my ancestry back a few generations. You said that all the trouble could have been saved if one of my ancestors had taken the trouble to write down the names of his and passed the list down to his kids and so on. But no one thought of that in my family and no one thought of it in the race. We have only some old legends. We came from space. That much is sure. We've done enough work on the home planet, old Terra II -- and the name alone is indicative of the fact that there must have been a Terra I -- to know that until we came tfiere and unloaded a regular zoo of life on her, she was a barren planet. Life began on Terra II # N.Y. ago. And on all the other planets we've settled in # N.Y. we've found enough life to Till a thimble if we collected all of it. Now we've hit the jackpot. Jack. I had to laugh when I Tilled in that ofTicial report. I've done it a hundred times and I've never had anything to write into the life questions other than a few facts about some weird bugs and some crazy plants. And this is a good indication of the fact that I'm not all wrong when I say that there's too much red tape in the program. How many hundreds of sheets of blinkstat paper have been wasted with those blank pages regarding life? How much does it cost to blink a stat from four hundred light-years away down to headquarters? But that's not the point. The point is, we thought that there Would be a time when those blanks regarding life on a new planet would be needed. Or we hoped so. Man, it sent a chill through me when I inked it in: lifetype: Class #-B Humanoid. And I can feel the vibrations caused by those words all the way out here. I'll bet my report has been fingered by everyone from old George Borne down to the office boy in XA Headquarters and I'll bet there are some paranoid types who are messing their pants. I've got a pretty good cross-section of society right here in my own crew and I think I have a good idea of what's going on out there on the home worlds. I'm telling you this. Jack. These poor bastards on this sad little planet are not the ones who shot up those central galaxy worlds we stew about so much. I've seen those worlds. I've walked the streets of the dead cities. You know and I know that the animals who built those cities were not even vaguely humanoid. The ruined worlds are not the point here. What happened to them has nothing to do with this situation, and I hope you'll keep reminding people of that. We know that those cats there in the thick stars were blood thirsty sons of bitches doing in a few worlds -- and, hopefully, themselves -- but we've been having nightmares eversince the first XA ship came back and showed us the pictures and the message they found burned into the skin of one of the planets. We've been quoting it ever since: Look on this, ye who aspire, and quake. Build not, for we shall return. It's enough to give you the creeps. I'll admit. Twenty worlds done in. And our quaking isolationists think that every time we go out on a mission we're going to run head-on into the planet killers. You know my views on this. I think they did themselves in, because where the hell are they going to return from? We found nothing to indicate that they had developed anything half as sophisticated as the blink drive and the worlds they inhabited were packed together around five suns in the same neighborhood. We've had ships all over this galaxy and there are just the twenty dead planets out there toward the center behind that big IF beautiful grouping of New York type stars. We haven't covered every star system in the galaxy, not by a long shot, but a civilization that could do what they did would be able to detect our ships if they came within four hundred light years, the way a blinking ship sends signals ahead of itself through the continuum. So I'm going to be damned unhappy if you people back there at headquarters let the ogre-hunters delay a decision on this thing until its too late. prised if that happened. God knows. I'm not surprised at anything we do. I wouldn't even be surprised if those planet killers came sweeping in from a neighborhood galaxy breathing fire and shooting up worlds. We'd just have to fight 'em. We're not completely without a defense, you know. For # N.Y. we've been worrying about those dead bastards and we've spent a lot of loot working on weapons we've jiever had a need for. If they could kill a planet, we had to be able to kill a planet. You know the drift. We bewail their cruelty, but we're not entirely without aggressive tendencies. Our history shows that. So far we've not killed entire worlds, but we sure cut the population when Zede IV came up with that fascist nut who was going to establish an empire. We've got some blood on our hands, too. We go armed. Hell, I've got enough armament aboard an Expo, ship to handle a fleet of those planet killers and shoot up a dozen worlds while doing it. I've never had to use a single popgun and I pray I don't ever have to -- but I've got them and I would use them if necessary. I have an antipathy for planet killers. I'd kill a few planets nfiyself to keep them human logic? But we've been good boys and girls for a few thousand N.Y. and we haven't killed anyone except in accidents and occasional cases of psychopathic murder or something. We've spread ourselves from asshole to appetite all over this arm of the galaxy and we're breeding as fast as we can to settle more worlds. I think I heard someone say that new world settlement requests come into United Planet Central at the rate of about five a year. We're pretty prolific. There are a hell of a lot of us and we're still suffering from two bugs. One, all alone. We can't understand why there's no life in this galaxy except us. We're always looking for it and always scared we're going to find it and discover the planet killers. This makes us hope and quake at the same time, being human, but we're curious enough to go on looking. We're so hungry for company we breed our dogs to be almost human and those scientists on Xanthos II breed sea mammals up to the communication level and go swimming around under the water with them, talking about this amazing intelligent life. Well, I think a lot of people are thinking of ZA in terms of a search for human dogs. What if we run into someone out here who is our equal? Not the planet killers, but just a race that can stand up to us intellectually? Will we start shooting, unable to bear the competition? When that creepy little telepath. Dr. Feli Janti from Belos II, discovered that these poor bastards we've finally run across -- these Class #-B Humanoids -- are way the hell and gone ahead of us in certain mental powers he panicked. He wanted me to start shooting. Some of these people can, without a single number, without a bit of math, picture in their heads a quantity of what they call sun circles equivalent to # of our old years. This Dr. Felo Janti ran face to face with a guy who could manipulate his cells at the atomic level. Janti got pictures of others who fly or teleport, using some power we can't even measure. He went white. He shook. He turned to me and said, "Captain, I recommend that we sterilize the planet immediately." He made a snap judgment, just like that, from having looked into the mind of one of them. His voice shook. He was scared right out of his bowels. These people don't have a single weapon, offensive or defensive, and their only enemy is the planet itself, but that creep wanted to wipe them out lest they overpower us with their superior mental abilities and Tob the women and rape the men of something. Jack, I know I'm taking up a lot of your time. I know you're damned busy flying that desk and painting scuff spots on the red tape. So I'll get down to it. W E'VE seen some hell-holes together. Jack. Terra II is a good example of a dead planet. Some of the places we checked out were pretty bad, but all of them are like paradise compared to this one. She's a hot one. She's greenhoused by a thick atmosphere and under it there's a lot of volcanic activity, just as if she'd been split by something down to the mantle. The air is full of sulphur anfd ammonia and other good jazz like that and the rest of it is inert with just the barest trace of oxygen. The surface is about eight-tenths water, because the heat under that blanket is up to the level where if you tried to take a bath in water that hot you'd burn your tail off. Right on the poles, in the wintertime, there's just a trace of frost. It melts off completely in the summer. There's lots of water, but it's fortunate that these people don't need it, getting theirs from their all-purpose liquid food which comes from a slimy green sea IF plant. The potable water is as scarce as it is on any desert planet you can name. The rivers are chemical sewers and the seas are just about as thick as a good Juaro soup -- only they contain everything that is soluble in' water. They'd float a piece of steel, almost, they're so saturated. There's not enough soil on the planet to grow a patch of beans and the rock is bare, exposed down to the solid level almost everywhere except in valleys where soil has been trapped. Those low places are something out of a nightmare. They're filled with plants thai look like diseased toadstools, although they're unlike anything we've seen because they're as toxic as a Telos redsnake and the soil holds about all the radioactivity that is left on the planet. It limits the stay in a Type-A suit to about ten minutes. That's damned hot. The radioactivity is artificially produced and is all old stuff. Lots of the carbon series. There are enough original radioactives deep down to tell us what happened. There are indications of mining at very deep levels. Yep. That's the story. I didn't put that in my official report and I leave it to you whether or not to break it right now. I'm afraid if I said it I might give the isolationists fodder for their fear-mongering. The planet has been systematically looted of every resource. On the surface there's not enough metal to get together a good child's toy and indications point to quite a few millennia since anyone has dug for it. We've turned up samples of most of the common stuff. Lead # and # and a bit of U-# at the deep levels. On the surface, especially next to the vegetation in the low spots, there's some Strontium # and Cesium #. It gets into the atmosphere at times. But these are not the planet killers of the central galaxy. I'd stake my career on that. Jack. I may be doing it anyway right now. This planet was killed, all right, but not by those bloody bastards of the center worlds. This one is older. Not in geological formation, but in settlement. You know we shifted our XA missions to the periphery after we failed to turn up anything in our own neighborhood and after we found the central worlds in ruins and dated them some # N.Y. old. The planet killers were in their big, final battles just about the time we came from wherever it was we came from. So it stood to reason that we hadn't come from the central galaxy or beyond, or we'd have encountered the killers on the way to old Terra II. Here's a side thing that might cause the isolationists to shudder. Suppose we'd missed Terra II -- and it's a loner, the only life-zone planet in its sector. Then we'd have gone on in and we'd have run headon into that big war and that would have been the end of us. But we didn't. We hit on the one planet in a thousand that could give us the proper conditions and then we settled down and started pulling ourselves into space again. It took us a while and that leads me to think that the first ships must have been primitive. It makes me think, sometimes, that Jordan is right in his theory about a one-ship landing. That would explain a lot. If pne ship had carried our little zoo out from the mother planet, wherever the hell it is, and if it had been severely damaged on landing -- suffering destruction of the history tapes or whatever -- we might have the answer. Suppose the survivors were left with nothing but their intelligence. They'd have been so damned busy during the first few generations -- rebuilding toward a technological civilization -- that they wouldn't have bothered with esthetics like history and where they came from. Word of mouth is a chancy way of preserving fact. it's all connected. It's all about the damnedest bunch of people I've ever imagined. This world is peopled by four distinct racial types. No type is-dominant. One type is a moron-intellectual sort of being, female, and the most humanoid in appearance. These moron-intellectual females wouldn't even qualify for a bush league Miss Local Belle contest on the home worlds, but they're definitely humanoids. They're hairless, but they have skin much like ours, only a bit thicker and tougher. They have breasts and most of the other female toys. They grow to adulthood, a bit smaller than the average U.P. female, with their brains remaining at the level of about a six-month-old baby. I've seen one or two of them. They lie in bed, naked, kicking and mewling like infants. But behind that part of the brain that controls their bodily functions i an area which, according to the creep from Belos II, is like a flesh-and-blood computer. These idiot-computer beings can't control that part of the brain, but it's used by another life form. This is a male who lives and works with the idiot female and he's a real-life monster. He doesn't have any eyes. He's got scales like a lizard and a chest about the size of a barrel and his head comes out of his shoulders in a solid, fleshy peak to point into a rounded dome. He's got a small mouth and a hairy, inverted nose through which he breathes. Oh, I forgot -- all four types have one thing in common. They have red gills on their necks. The computer morons look as if the gills haven't been fully formed. The gills have something to do with breathing and the computer morons can't go outside except under ideal conditions. The male types living with the computer morons have the gills on the thick, fleshy portion of the tall dome of head. They see and IF hear and apparently smell and do a lot of things our experts are studying -- do them ' with senses much like old-fashioned radar. They can hurt with the power of their minds, but they're gentle...We've observed no attempt to dominate. They can send their senses bouncing off the near planets and -- try this one on for size -- they can sense the stars. Of course they're not sending signals all the way there and back -- the nearest star to their sun is # light-years distant -- but they can feel something, maybe the light from the stars as it comes down through an atmosphere which in broad daylight on a summer's day makes it as dark as the inside of a cat's gut. They've got a sense of time, but no written calendar, of course. A sort of abstraction tells them the season, the month -- although they have no names for the months, just abstract pictures comparing the time with the entire year and the day in relationship to the entire year. The two other types are male and female. The female is the flyer. She uses electromagnetic force -- in some way that has our boys boggling their minds -- to lift herself and a considerable load for fantastic distances. More on that later. Her male counterpart is the worker. He's developed some amazing body functions, including the ability to rebuild damaged healing ability allows him to go out into that hell of a planet and gather food. He likes to travel and bugs around over all the land areas and under the seas when he not working. He can exist in an atmosphere that wouldn't give a good breath of air to an ant. He stores oxygen and nutrition in his cells' and uses his reserves at will. These last two types are the breeders. They breed just once in a lifetime -- and by that I mean all that goes with it. Once in a lifetime, Jack. How would you like that? All four of the types are ugly. The male breeder has huge, thick scales that bounce off radiation and the hard particles from the sun. That in itself is worthy of a lifetime of study by a dozen of our scientists. He has a chest capacity of about four cubic liters. He has eyes, as de the three types other than the radar fellow. The male breeder also has the strongest esthetic sensibilities. You've got all this if you've read the rather unusual transcript we sent as exhibit number one in this affair. I hope you have read itand thoroughly -- because this whole thing means a lot to me and, I sincerely feel, it means a helluva lot to all of us. together. They never, never, except in rare and isolated cases of severe law-breaking, do any harm to any living thing. They're the dominant form on the planet, but there's not much else. There's a large, spiderlike thing. Another insect type is about as large as a phralley dog, looks like an ant and makes a fantastic amount of sting fluid. Then there are the half-plant, half-animal creatures, the size of the period dot on a blinkstat typer, which can eat the atmosphere and synthesize oxygen. These little bugs are keeping the race more or less alive... The people know they're living on a dying planet, but they don't know why it's dying. They have a semi-religion and worship nature as a force for good. Their god is life itself. They think the role of nature is to people worlds with life of an intelligent nature and to them that means people like themselves. But their faith is being tested, because their best minds predict death for the race in about one generation. We think they have plus or minus nine years, N.Y., that is, before the air is gone. We may be slightly underestimating their survival capacity, but it is my considered opinion -- and the opinion of my staff -- that the situation is urgent. They're going to die. The little oxygen makers they call Breathers are being killed in their natural habitat by a worsening of the sea and air conditions. There isn't any new oxygen being made to speak of. They keep colonies of the Breathers inside their homes, but the Breathers are relatively short-lived and have to have optimum conditions, to breed satisfactorily. They decline in captivity, the breeding not keeping pace with the dying. They have to be replenished from the natural supply with much labor and difficulty -- and that supply has to be enough for people on two land masses. In plus or minus nine years there ain't gonna be no supply of new Breathers. For the first time in history we're face to face with an intelligent alien society and it almost makes me believe in their nature worship, because we've come on this at a crucial time and we have the power to help them. We can save them by moving in equipment to manufacture oxygen from the water or the rocks, as we do on some mining planets, but that would cost a bloody fortune and would require contact. Moreover, it would be an endless process, because this world is farther gone than any inhabited planet I've ever seen. Basically, that's the case. Jack. We help or they die. I hope you haven't made a decision yet, because I'm going to hit you right in the balls with a few facts we've dug up. One, our archeologists have made test borings and excavations. We have to do this in out-of-theway places, because it's difficult as hell for our boy wonders from Belos II to sneak up on some of these characters, hold them in hypnosis and then shoot them with IF something to keep them in a daze so they won't notice us. Still, while keeping security and not making contact, we've been able to do some interesting things. It's difficult to state anything with much authority, because by our measurements this present society is about as old as we are, about # New Years. You can imagine how # N.Y. can raise hell with world subjected to corrosive rains and uncontrolled erosion -- and especially one that has been burned good with atomics. Yep... That's what I said. She was burn bald. Just like the planet killers' leavings. Only these people did it the hard way with oldfashioned atomics, not the goodies the planet killers had. The signs are unmistakable. All the old, decaying isotopes are present. They must have us very funny bombs, because they produced a lot of carbon isotopes with long half-lives. I know that I'm going to be asked how, if there was enough stuff around # N.Y. ago to leave this much hot stuff, anyone at all survived to found this new race. Well, I haven't got the answer, only proof that they did survive, because they are here. I 'VE monitored as many interviews as I could. The ones without eyes and ears and with the pointed heads call themselves Far Seers. That's because they can send that radar-like sense out to vast distances. The Far Seers are the priests of the nature thing, explaining with clear logic that nature abhors a vacuum as far as life is concerned. The Far Seers believe that all the far suns they can sense have planets and that those planets swarm with life like themselves. I've looked into the records of the Far Seers, kept in the back part of the minds of the Keepers, those female moron computers. I know about as much about the history of this race as they themselves know. Incidentally, Jack, the Far Seers screw the Keepers with astounding frequency. They're very virile cats, but completely sterile, like that creature out of our mythology, the mule. That is their only pleasure, but they're not just dirty old men. The Keepers, also sterile but well developed sexually, enjoy it, too. That's just an aside, but I think it shows as much as anything that these fellows have basic human traits. I was talking about looking into the minds of the Keepers. I do it, of course, with the help of the. little bastard from Belos II, who can't concentrate, but has to keep looking into my mind to see if I'm having too many wet dreams or something. It's interesting to note that these people are about as foggy about their beginnings as we are about ours. They have some incomplete legends, just as we do. They think they've mutated from a race they call the Old Ones. They believe that nature adapts life to meet the conditions of a world. They believe that in times of crisis nature comes up with a New One.to pull life through. This is like saying that environment shapes life, isn't it? Here on this world it seems to. These people have adapted to conditions that would kill one of us in the time it would take the brain to die from lack of oxygen, while poisoning him in about a dozen different ways in the meantime. Their legends tell of nature's forming the First Healer. He could live with what they picture as small, hard projectiles: radiation. He apparently did, for the Healer calls on that strange ability of his to repair radiation-damaged cells and his scales bounce off all kinds of radiation in quantities that would kill a horse. His organs don't collect the bad stuff either. They throw it out and vent it, along with the waste gases and unused toxic content of the air, through the gills. So this First Healer came along as a mutation and then bred the Keepers and the Far Seers -- breeding with what they call the Old Ones. I'd guess that it was the Old Ones who did in the planet with atomics... There's a beautiful line in one of their records, a thing in pictures, of course, which is called, roughly. The Book Of Rose the Healer. They don't know what a rose is, but there's this good picture of a rose left in their minds after the conditions that would have produced a rose have been gone for # N.Y. Rose the Healer said that the Old Ones fornicated even in death, producing the Healers. That sounds rather human, doesn't it? So they fornicated and out came mutations. Instant adaptation. Believe it or not. I suspect the legends condense the process somewhat. But we have to believe what we see and what we find. We have here a world which, at one time, was highly technologized, to the point of atomics. We've found a few decomposing chunks of metal to indicate that they were working with some advanced alloys of an atomic culture type. We've found a sizable city under the sea. There's not much there and we can't get to it because it's under a few hundred feet of sludge, but it's there. We detect decomposed metals, stone, everything to indicate that it was a real city. It went under. I'd guess, about # N.Y. ago, either from the melting of the ice(;aps or from the planetary crust distortion indicated by wide rifts and by the fact the crust is split down close to the molten core in the south of the western hemisphere. I'm using west as they use it. We've found a few traces of plastics. You'd think we could Find more, but # N.Y. is a good chunk of time and a lot of it must have been burned with the surface stuff. I'm sure that, given time, we'II find some underground deposits that will tell us more. But I IF don't want to be a part of any undertaker's group doing an autopsy on this world. I know we don't have enough proof from what I'm coming to, not yet, but I say we have to take the risk and prove our justification later. So this world was much like some of ours with atomics, the right metals, the suitable plastics. It killed itself. The present race mutated from the original race,, which was humanoid, because the forms of the things we can identify by instrument in the sunken city point definitely to a humanoid origin. The question is, who were the Old Ones? I think I have an answer to that. Y OU know the prescribed approach to a life-zone planet. We came in slowly and carefully, did a lot of instrument work at long range. When we detected no probes from the planet we looked for a base close in and found it on a large, airless satellite. It was perfect. It kept just one face to the planet, as do the satellites of some of our worlds. We came down on the back side and peeked around the horizon with instruments. Nothing doing down there. We went th;ough normal routine. We sent crews around planetside to probe her and measure her. I had come down with a cold and was sacked out with a couple of wonderful drugs making me groggy. Then one of my junior officers who had been surfaceside came in with his ass in an uproar and what he told me made the drug-wooziness leave me like a hangover after a dose of Zarts. I got into a it and took a jumper around to where one of my crews had just had the hell scared out of it -- enough to yell for the old around a veritable junkpile. Yep. We were not the first ones to land on that satellite. Someone had been there ahead of us. Two of those someones were still there. This, too, is not in the report. Jack. I know, I know. It should have been sent immediately Code I, but you know and I know that there's nothing that whets the curiosity of an XA stat clerk Hke a Code I rating. It would have been all over the U.P. But a PersonalPersonal thing, that's fairly sacred. There was this half-dome of semi-opaque material. We could see into it. It was about five feet at the highest point, about the same wide. It had a lock type entry. Inside were these two things. They had huge chests and they had scales. They were lying on a little bed with their arms around each other. They looked as if they were asleep, but we knew they had to be dead, because we were nightside on the satellite and it was colder than hell. There was no air. Our instruments showed no oxygen inside. We thought they might be breathing the inert gases, but we could detect no movement. We found later, that they were a male and a female of the breeder species. The female had these cute little silvery and gold scales. The male was as horny as any Phebus lizard in any zoo. The thing that stoned our people was the lack of any propellant device. I mean, you could see through the whole thing and the plasticlike material was soft to the touch. There was nothing in it that we could detect to push it. I sent for a team. The two inside were obviously dead. It took a few hours to get ready and then I opened the lock. It was a funny thing, that lock. No apparent reason for it to stay locked and it opened easily, but when it was closed the material overlapped itself and formed an airtite seal. Well, after we'd taken all the pictures and measurements our scientists wanted, I went in. As per regulations, I went in with the telepath from Belos II, even though I knew in my mind that there was no chance of contact, since they had to be dead. There was completely dead air in the dome. No oxygen at all. Along the walls, in little tanks, were dead things like tiny flower buds. I was casing the joint when Dr. Janti, creepy little fink that he was, came on with his communicator full blast and almost ruptured my eardrums. He was yelling, "It's alive. It's alive." the open lock. I ordered the lock closed and then I told Janti to vent his spare oxygen into the air. We emptied our tanks and suits of all but a reserve. There must have been just enough air in that cold dome finally to give a mouse a full breath, but it was enough for that big fellow with the scales. I'll be damned if he didn't move. I was paralyzed. I won't say I forgot my duty, but I ignored regulations, because here was the first intelligent life we had ever encountered. I wasn't about to bug out of there and let it die. I watched, my hackles rising, as his big, thick, scaled chest heaved and then I got some more oxygen into the dome. We had it filled with good, sweet air. That scaled monster sat up. "Contact, please. Dr. Janti," I ordered. The alien was sitting on the little bed looking at us from a set of blue eyes unlike anything I'd ever seen -- huge, soft, alive. Think of the eyes of one of those Satina sea nymphs and multiply them four times. He looked at us and the little creep from Belos fl went probing into his mind. Meantime, this scaled cat was breathing us down to nothing. His lungs and cells could hold almost all the oxygen we pump in. I was watching hiip. He looked at us. His face wasn't built for expression, being pretty well hidden by scales and his nose being inverted. He made no hostile move. He just IF looked, shifted his eyes to Janti and I felt a force in the air.x I couldn't put my finger on it. It was just something that came out of him. Then Janti lost control and started screaming that the alien had to be killed. He looked down at his female. She wasn't moving. She was dead. I felt this sense of despair so overwhelming that I was sure that the planet killers had made it Back and done in all our worlds with all my friends, family, crew, all the girls I'd ever loved, all the sweet grass I'd walked on and sat on, all the good, blue water, all the sweet air, everything. Gone. Gone. I don't have the words to describe the total sadness I felt. I wanted to reach out to him, but Janti was screaming and clawing to get out of the place. He was yelling that the alien had to be killed and that we had to blast the planet before it was too late. I had never realized that Janti was a psychopath. Whose mind can heal the mind-healer's mind? But all the time he had been one of those damned doomsayers and he was sure we'd run into the form of life that would do us all in unless we acted quickly. In all this turmoil -- Janti's letting his mind go ape was affecting even me -- the scaled fellow turned, made an animal sound. It came through. It was a sound of pure pain. He put his arms around the female; held her dead body close. He rocked and cocked and it was quiet in the dome, because the good doctor had made his escape, taking all the air out with him. I pumped it up again. I went out and threatened to smash Janti's faceplate and let in space to boil his blood. Janti recovered his sanity and came back into the dome. He couldn't get any pictures, any communication. I ordered him to contact, breaking every rule in the book. The scaled fellow was closed off tightly and Janti couldn't find a chink. He said the scaled fellow's mind was like a solid, closed ball of steel. So I had to watch as this alien, this first intelligent being we've met in all our history, died. He held the female close and rocked back and forth. Tears were running down inside my helmet. There was plenty of air in the dome, but the alien wouldn't breathe. He seemed to will himself todeath. It took a long, long time and nothing we could do could reach him. We tried contact on various levels. But he was closed. Janti said his mind was the most powerful he had ever ertcountered. In the end we tried to pump oxygen into his mouth, but he merely voided it from his gills. course. And the way he got to the satellite makes for some of the most incredible stuff I've ever run into, fiction or otherwise. I've told you that the female breeders fly. Well, when we went planetside, by sheer luck we landed on this fellow's home continent. It's a piece of desolate real estate if I've ever seen one and I've seen a few. The scene wasn't much better than the planet's moon. Janti and his help made hypnocontact. We had been warned in advance by our encounter with the live one on the mo#n and it was a good thing. If we had gone in blind those Far Seer types would have sensed us. But we went in hypno and began to dig around. Turns out that the fellow we met on the moon was a hero and their last hope. Everyone knew all about him. He had been sent to the moon because of their wild belief in nature. They just knew that there was a happy, sweet-aired world up there on their moon. So they sent these damned kids, and I .say kids because the life span of a male breeder is about twenty-two N.Y., that of the female breeder even less. She, the female breeder, literally consumes her life substance in flight. It was possible for those two kids to go to the moon because he had come up with something new. It wasn't a machine or anything like that. It was a mutation. They went to the moon of that planet on the power of the mind. Jack. The Healer -- he was called the New One -- was a mutant and, able to "blend his flesh" with others. It was somewhat like a blood transfusion, only infinitely more complete, for he could g# into the body of the others and heal them, as he healed himself, on the cell level. With his fantastic capacity to store oxygen and energy he had enough, with what food and air they could carry in that dome, to send that whole crazy space ship, and that's what it was, all the way to the .satellite. Don't ask me yet why they didn't freeze. There was no artificial heat in the thing. Our boys think he could stand direct sunlight and diffuse the heat around the dome with his scales or something. At any rate, he had to be exposed to direct sunlight on the satellite -- and to the freezing cold. Fantastic tolerance for extremes in temperature. When we found him he came out of his coma unharmed, except for a small ashlike deposit on his scales. The female, on the other hand, had died of a variety of things, apparently, cold, heat, hard radiation, lack of oxygen. Okay. So these people knew they were done for, that the planet was going to kill all of them. This kid came up with his mutation, which enabled him to drive his space ship all the way to the satellite, using his female's power. They went there expecting to find life and they found airless space and heat and cold and death. His friends all over the western continent, and even in the eastern areas knew all about the trip. We IF were interested in our First alien, naturally, so we traced him through the records in the minds of the Keepers and compiled the stat -- the exhibit one in this whole thing. It's sad, you're thinking. They're all going to be dead in plus or minus nine N.Y. Perhaps you're also saying that so far there is no justification for us to step in. I know that there are isolationists high up in the council of President Borne and they'll agree with Janti that these people could threaten us with their fantastic mental powers. How would we control people who can teleport, send a fatal force from their minds, live under conditions that would kill us in three minutes? I know that a lot of powerful people are going to cite our regulations -- no contact until a thorough study has been made. A study which, if carried out according to regulations, would take twenty N.Y. die. We've spent a lot of time, energy and resources trying to find exactly what we've found, a civilization of intelligent beings. They're different, but not that different. They're gentle. When we pieced together the account of Rack the Healer from the minds of the Keepers and the others it came out so human that there wasn't one of us who wasn't touched. I like to think that Rack would be pleased with his book. It was taken from a lot of sources and the end of it is not.yet written. We found a part of Rack's book in the mind of his infant child, a Keeper. We found more of it in the minds of his friends and their Keepers. I wanted you to read it even before you scanned the official reports, because I think it shows that these are nice people. Jack. They must be saved. Hell, I'm selfish. I want on of those Far Seers in my crew some day. What an exploration tool he'd be! And a Power Giver to do short range scouting. And a Healer to look around on hell-hole planets where even the best suit is good for limited periods. I won't guarantee that if we took them into the United Planets they wouldn't be running things in a few hundred years, but we could do worse. They have gentleness, true regard for individual freedom, a reverence for life of any sort. If they're smarter than we are, then we'll just have to buckle down and learn more. We just can't let them pass out of existence. As I see it, we have three choices. We can, let them die -- and we'll do this if the regulations are followed. We can move some or all of them under hypnosis to hide our contact and risk having them go into some kind of shock when they awaken on a totally different planet. Or, we can contact them, explain the whole situation and move them to a nice, fresh planet. It wouldn't even have to be a prime planet. Worlds we look on as being waste worlds would be paradise to them. They'd live like kings on Terra II, for example. I am unalterably opposed to the first course of action, I don't favor the second, because we'd be unable to movq all of them in time. To support my third suggestion, immediate and full contact, I have one more item. I said, earlier, that when I jumped around their moon I found my crew beside a regular junk pileThen I purposely didn't mention anything but the dome in which the two aliens made the trip from their world to the satellite. The spot where we found Rack the Healer and his nicely named female was not, obviously, their first landing on the moon. They had made some prior stops. We found Rack's footprints in the lunar dust. That fantastic scaled character could walk around in a complete vacuum, using his stored oxygen. He'd done a lot of exploration and all along he must have known that it was hopeless. He didn't have enough reserves to make it back home. His Breathers had been used up, were dying. His girl must have been dying. But he didn't give up and he found this junkpile I mentioned. He knew, as he died, that he was not the first to make the trip from his planet to his moon, because his landing, his last one, was made alongside a meteorite-pitted, antique contraption that could have been nothing but the jettisoned stage of a combustion rocket. Yep, there it was. We found others later. But here was the real kick in the backside for us and for Rack. This thing has been there a helluva long time. It's pitted, but it's still intact and identifiable, maybe not to Rack the Healer, but to us. And I wondered, as I looked at it, what he thought. As you know from reading his book, he valued and wondered about the small chunks of metal he found on his planet and then, while he was dying, knowing that his lover was dead, he put his hands -- his prints were on the dust on the thing -- on a store of metal he must have not been able to believe. A whole junkpile of it. He couldn't have known what it was. I did. And I thought of you, old buddy, and the talks we used to have about where we came from and about all our speculations -- like which direction our ancestors would have taken after they launched us into space? We dreamed about finding them, being welcomed. We would be the longlost children home from the far stars. We'd be given the benefit of all their advanced wisdom. We'd gain immortality, among other puny things, because a society which, # N.Y. past, could launch a starship, would have made unbelievable advances. dream for you, because, knowIF ing you, I'm sure there's a spot somewhere in your aging carcass where that young dream survives. But it's dead, that dream. We killed it when we landed on a barren satellite without a name, just a generic label, moon. It was dead when we found Rack and Beautiful Wings beside a junkpile of antique equipment. I knew it was dead when I stood in front of a crazy, boasting, thoroughly human thing that I'm going to show you in a moment. But it's not all bad. Jack. It's not all bad. We've been looking for our parents for # N.Y. and now we've found them. When I looked at Rack, the scaled fellow, I was times remov. Rack and his people are mutated from the Old Ones and the Old Ones went to the moon about # old years ago. Our old year figures to the minute or so with their sun circle. So # old years ago, the Old Ones of Rack's world went to the moon. Then they must have discovered better ways to travel, sending our immediate ancestors out into space with what might have been an unguided version of the blink drive, since we landed so far away from this insignificent little sun here in the periphery. After that they lost interest in the barren satellite and then they had their little family squabble that burned the whole world bald. Here's the picture I've been saving. Jack. As a clue, it's Old English. If yhu have trouble, consult Parker at the Academy. He's an expert. He's the one who taught me to love the old written language. I didn't have a bit of trouble reading it, except for the dates, of course, which are meaningless. Take a look at it. It was placed here on this planet's moon about # old years ago, this planet's years, our old years. And I like to think that maybe one of my own, a grandfather thousands of times removed, was among the three listed as crew on the first moon landing. one shot, but my intuition tells me maybe he was. So take a look and think, maybe, that one of them was in your-direct line, too, and then send me the order that will do away with the red tape and allow me to save the lives of the few survivors of our mother race. Take a look: (At the current price of single volumes, here is a bargain that makes sense -- the two fit tightly together.) The book is dated in some ways. It was written and first published during the final days of World War II when the concept of "seetee" or "c.t." (contra-terrene) anti-matter the pseudonym of Will Stewart, but he's now out from behind the whiskers. The good guys in this are a bit stiff. But the problem presented makes up for any flaw the book has. Seetee matter and normal matter are exactly the same, except that seetee has outer positrons and nuclear negative particles. Seetee plus normal matter react together violently, destroying each other completely and releasing total energy. Bits of seetee are found in the asteroid belt. First problem -- detect them: no way is known except by contact with normal matter. Second problem -- make use of the power available when you can't possibly handle seetee matter with tools of normal matter. To add to the complications the asteroid miners discover a "planetoid" that is actually an alien ship made of seetee matter. It's loaded with all kinds of science and gadgets. But how can it be studied and made to work? ( Continued from page ! #) The combined novels make for a lot of good, solid reading. Finally we have a book from outside the field that is worth considering. Fred Mustard Stewart, so far as I know, has never been a sciencefiction writer. But his The Methuseleh Enzyme (Bantam, #) is one of those borderline cases that I find more science fiction than not. The science is limited, but worked out very well. (Stewart shows every sign of having been sort of a hobbyist and of having become completely fascinated with the subject of life extension; he obviously researched far more than most writers outside the field consider necessary.) The story is that of a small group of people who are permitted to take part in the first attempt to rejuvenate the aged. It turns out there is a price for such rejuvenation. Some of this price is known to the older characters here from the beginning. The rest is learned the hard way. It makes for a good story. A red banner on the cover warns you not to reveal the shock ending. Phooey. It's a darned good and logical ending and deserves careful reading -- much of the meaning of the book is packed into it. But it's no cheap shocker. It belongs in the book and I was completely satisfied by it.  IF # East # Street I NewYork.N.Y. # I FT! #t pt word ' (inchiding nmmo and addrass). f #-word minimum. Paymant with ordar. Romanes. Humor. W ss t am and Occult Papar(#) #-#. Box #, No. Salt Lake. Utah #. magazines. Arkham House. Fantasy Press. LoveN.J. #. books, etc. for sale by other collectors. Sample #a. Philosophy: The Nature of Form in Process: Information processing from Plato to present (hardcover). I I I pp., #, postage included. Writers: Publishing short-short SF with impact. Also, original, CA #. etc.). Magazines. Fdio Premtunra, etc. From #Flushing. N.Y. #. Michigan #. science-fiction. In our first # issues: articies, fiction, poems, reviews, etc. by Blish, Campbell, Delany. Le Guin. Laiber, Moskowitz. Neville. Panshin, Williamson, Zelazny, etc. Subscriptions # (# issues) Station, Ryina, Canada All back issues available at #c each. A # (or larger) order brings yoii a free copy of H. P; Lvecreft: A Symposium, with Bob Bloch. Arthur Cox, Fritz Letter. Sam Russell. Florida State Christian College. Post Office Box I #. Fort Lauderdale, Rorida #. P.O. Box #. LACA #. free. Autosuggestion, Box #-GY, Olympia. Washington #. Burning. # Cones plus Ceramic Stand...# Postpaid. Specify Jasmin. Bayberry. LHac, Lavender nesses. Send Birthdate and Place with #. Money Back if not Delighted. B.J. P.O. Box #, sales and highly qualified iiKiuiries from more than or call Frank Brertnan, Qaasified Advertising ManaSt. New York. N.Y. #. (#) MU-#. # per word (including name .and address). #-word minimum. Payment with order. Mail to: Sept July Oct Aug May Nov Sept Dec Oct July Jan Nov Feb Dec Sept Mar Jan April Feb Nov May Mar June Apr Jan July May Aug Jun Mar Frank Brennan, Classified Advertising Manager Enclosed is . bring results and profits because they reach over # of America's most enthusiastic science-fiction readers. The first novel about a "Bionics Man" CYt))fiC author of Marooned -- Theodore Sturgeon, Galaxy "An intriguing blend of the world of the future, interesting characters, and a fast moving tale... Readers should find it very rewarding...The perceptive reader will begin wondering about the world of the future and what it will mean to him. How will man be able to adjust to scientific discoveries that give him more power than previous men have had?... A first-rate entertainment." -- Besf Sellers -- Publishers Weekly JHpF...what would happen if Sam Peckinpah were doing science fiction... Caidin has a gift -- he can explain technology with a clarity given to half-a-handful of writers... He writes so well and with such authority that this is all too believable." -- Ae wsofay # at bookstores, # Third Ave., New York # #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners," chosen by Sci-Fl Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. S# with trial membership Science Fiction Book Club #-S#A Dept. BL-#, Garden City, N.Y. # Please accept my application for membership in the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the # books whose numbers I have written in the boxes below. Bill me just ## (to help cover shipping) for all #. About every # weeks, send me the club's bulletin, Things to Come, describing the # coming Selections and a variety of Alternate choices. If I wish to receive both Selections. I need do nothing; they will be shipped to me automatically. Whenever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an Alternate, or no book at all. I will notify you by the date specified by returning the convenient form always provided. I need take only # Selections or Alternates during the coming year, and may resign any time thereafter. Most books are only #, plus a modest charge for shipping and handling. Occasionally, extra-value Selections are slightly higher. return the entire introductory package within # days. Membership will be canceled. I owe nothing. Mr. Mrs. Miss #. The Hugo Winners, Vol. I  II. Giant #ln-I volume of # award-winners; # to #. Asimov introduces each. Pub. ed. # #. The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov. The master's first novel in # years. Worth the wait for a trip to the year #. Pub. ed. # #. A Science Fiction Argosy ed. by Damon Knight. Over # E ages. # stories y such Hugo  Nebula winners as Asimov, Aldiss and Anderson. Includes # novels. Pub. ed. # #. A Time of Changes by Robert Silverberg. of strange planet where human beings must despise themselves. #I Nebula award winner. Spec. Ed. #. The # Annual World's Best Science Fiction, ed. by Donald A. Wollheim. Volume IV contains # gems from Clarke, Sturgeon. Ellison, Anderson, and more. Spec. Ed. #. A Choice of Gods by Clifford D. Simak. Devastating novel. Robots take over earth, everyone except a family and Indian tribe. Pub. ed # #. The Foundation Trilogy by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. # #. Midsummer Century by James Blish. The terrors of the #th century... confronted, by #th century man. Pub. ed. # #. Dune by Frank Herbert. Celebrated winner of Hugo and Nebula. Tale of family exiled from their private planet to a barren desert. Pub. ed. # #. A Treasury of Great Science Fiction, e d. by Anthony Boucher. # Volume set. # pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # Print name Address #. Mutant #: The Plastic Eaters by Kit Pedler and Gerry Davis. New bacteria goes berserk causing London to melt. Pub. ed. # State If under #, parent must sign above. Office use only Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in sire, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly'different in Canada. Printed in U.S.A.  l Illustrated by Robin Jacques The celebrated master of science fiction and fantasy now mesmerizes readers with a tale of a magic puzzle found in an abandoned house. Each of four boys who try to understand its strange powers is caught in an eerie spell that carries him backward in time to a long-ago and far-away adventure. Each confronts a dragon of historical legend that relates to his ancestral heritage: African, Chinese, Scandinavian, Crvwell # Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. # (retail prices shown) Robert S. de Ropp. The continuing battle between the creative and destructive forces of science. # clear clocks, quasars, the origin of the solar system, and the Van Allen belt and more. # Werner Heisenberg. Behind the scenes with the men who unraveled the secrets of quantum mechanics. # lyzes hundreds of mathematical solids from the tetrahedron to the trapezoidal hexacontahedron.# Ropp. A thoroughgoing study of human sexual anatomy and response; and the sexual behavior of animals, insects, and plants. # Natural Foods of the North American Indians. Michael A. Weiner. # of the finest minds in the world consider the restructuring of quantum theory. # and Anne H. Ehrlich. The ecological book of the year. # Frank D. Stacey. Geophysics and its revolutionary changes. # Kopal. More than # unique photographic plates, a lunar Baedeker. Counts as # of your # choices. # Isaac Asimov. # Volumes I and #. You'll find the inside, expert story about what makes makes everything tick in these two best-selling volumes. The # books count as one. # About the #s and #'s. Herman Kahn and B. Bruce-Briggs. A practical look ahead by think-tank experts. # ture, Technology and Man. Barry Commoner. The most important statement yet made on the nature, cause, and possible solution of the environmental disaster. # Report on the New Geology. Nigel Calder. Some of the startling changes that are taking place in a vital and changing science. # How many of these Bestsellers belong in your sdentif k library? Get # that you don't hove -- for onlv Take any # books (values to #) foronly#S with a membership in The Library of Science nnd you need agree fo buy only # more books (at discount prices) in the next twelve months. The Library of Science, Riverside, N.J. # #-# Upon acceptance of this order, please mroll me as a member and send the # books I have indicated. Bill me only #, plus postage and handling. If not delighted. I will return all books within ten days and this membership will be cancelled. As a membw, I need accept only three more selections during the next # months at reduced member prices, plus postage and handling. Savings range up to # and occasionally even more. I xmderstand that I will receive free advance Reviews which fully describe each month's Main Selection and Alternates. If I wish the Main Selection, I need do nothing and it will be sent automatically. If I prefer an Alternate -- or no book at all -- I need cmly return the convenient reply card you send me by the date specified. I understand that I may choose a bonus book for every four selections purchased. (Introductory offer counts as first selection toward a bonus book.) Send no money. Mnnbers are billed when books arrive. # books for #. (write in numbers) (S(ne expensive books count as # choices.) Name . --  . -- Address City State Zip (Offer good in Cmtlneatal U.S. and Canada only. Prices slightly higher in Canada. ) NovemberDecember # Vol.#,No.# Issue # AmoklE. Abramson, Pobttsher Lester do! Pof. Feature Editor EJferJekobeson, EdNor Theodore Sbepeon, ContrUnrting Editor Judf-Lyno Betdemin, Mermging Editor Jack Geughen, Art Dkeetor Jaf TunidL Ckcuiatien Director L. C. Murphy, Subscription Director oraiioa Arnold E. Abramooa Proeidont Main OfReoo: # Et # Siroot Now XoiIl N.Y. #. Singl# copy: #d. #Imuo tubtcription: # in U.S... # olo o w b o f . Kingdom by UnivortoFTondom Publishing Company. Ltd... # Gtoucaatar Road. London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson. Chairtnan of tha Soard. Ralph Stokas. Maruming Dimctor. Singla copy: #p. #-itsua subscription in tha Unbad Kirdcvn: #. Amarlean Copyright Convam i ons. All righia lass n ra d . Saoond dasa poataga paid at Now The Birth of Environmental Quality Magazine Aside from naming some of our more celebrated contributors such as Ray Bradbury, Paul Ehrlich, Jacques Cousteau and Paolo Soleri, and mentioning a few interesting ideas like solar energy, organic burial, Wankel engines and cryogenic sperm banks, there is very little that space permits us to say about the environmental struggle except we're in it up to our gas masks. Send for your Complimentary Copy Now! Environmental Quality Magazine # Burbank Blvd.  North Hollywood, Calif. #I # issues -- # You may cancel within I # days after receiving your free copy -- and owe nothing. Name. (Please Print) Address. City State  Zip  Bill Me  Check Enclosed I D irector magno vesspace shuttle was not equipped to enter the planet Roget's atmosphere at the customary maximum velocity. The slower, powered descent, gave him ample opportunity to study the terrain he was approaching. His powerful lenses and the facility offered by the shuttle's navigation dome afforded him a unique view of the sector of the planet adjacent to the spaceport. His interest had been kindled by the s(acegram he had received, hinting at great trouble. Vestevaal was a firm believer in making the maximum use of information when attempting to solve a problem. Below him now lay Anharitte, not the largest but certainly the most influential city on Roget. He could see it all with crystal clarity. To the west spread the sea, one of the great oceans dividing the planetary continents. To the north and east the landmass was largely sandy, fertile plains comprising the provinces of TEmpte, Magda, provincial Anharitte and the broad lands of T Ampere. Beneath the city proper, the teautiful bow of the AprUlo river cut a wide channel throu the sandbanks to the sea. The city of Anharitte was based on natural geological features. The three broad hills must have been islands in a Time when the oceans had been even wider than the limits decided by their present disposition. The hills formed a rough triangle rising above the stubborn plains, forcing the waters of the tributary of Daizan and several small canals to pass between their green and granite flanks. The first hill was Anharitte itself, the main commercial and administrative center of the region. Even from a height the director could see the outlines of the three great castles of Di Guaard, Di Rode and Di Irons. Farther east along the banks of the Aprillo rose the second 'hill, T Ampere, no longer a citadel, yet holding the major wealth of a vast province under more than adequate control. Situated roughly between the other hills, yet displaced north, was the third hill. It was smaller than its brethren and even from a height appeared more sinister with the predominating grays and browns of the underlying rocks. This was Magda, key to a minor province and possessing the most formidable fortress of all. It was with Magda, with its paucity of approach roads and its craggy, inhospitable outlines, that the director was most concerned. These lands were the realm of the man known as the Imaiz, who, if IF the rqorts were substantiated, posed a considerable threat not only to the composite city of Anharitte, but also to the spaceport and the rich trade therefrom. At the spaceport there were no formalities. All the details such as the ship's identity and charter, the manifest and the passenger list, had long since been transmitted to the terminal by the shipboard data links and the relevant cargo equipment was already standing at the edge of the landing bowl. As the shuttle completed touchdown procedure, Director Vestevaal strode straight to the small cushion-craft awaiting him. Within minutes he was clear of the limits of the spaceport. T he cushion-craft bore him along the wide sandy road of the Via Arena, the main trade road leading into Anharitte. In front of him, green and mellow in the sun, stood the broad bulk of Firsthill, bearing on its right-hand shoulder the dominating battlements of the Castle Di Guaard frowning down on the reaches of the great Aprillo river. Slightly farther away and to the left, the darker shades of Thirdhill -- the lands of Magda -- rose in a dark and rather sinister contrast. It was not possible for Vestevaal to see the castle of Magda from his present location. but somewhere on those strange, broken heights was the fortress home of the Imaiz. the wizard of Anharitte, whose activities had fetched Magno Vestevaal unwillingly halfway across tlM universe. Some three and a half kilometers along the Via Arena he came to the Black Rock. This marked the limit for the free use of cushion-craft. From this point on he had to -- by city ordinance -- engage some stavebearers whose poles would guide the craft safely through the populated streets. Because the vehicle had no positive contact with the roadway it was subject to deflection by winds and gradients. Within the city limits the stave-bearers would run alongside, driving their staves occasionally into the soft undersand and forcing the fenders of the craft to run along the iron-tipped poles, thus defining and correcting the course of the floating vehicle. Progress was necessarily slow and laborious, but since power-driven wheeled vehicles were not allowed on the three hills, the visitor had no choice but to suffer it or to walk. Just past the Arena a ragged runner, sent by the Company's agent, Tito Ren, met them and trotted ahead to guide them up the slopes of the Trade Road and through the crowded ways to the food market of Firsthill where Ren had an office. The agent paid the men off quickly. ordered house servants to collect the luggage and ushered the director into the welcome coolness of the office chambers. Whfie he was watdifor Vesfeva, to complete his ablutions Tito Ren watched continually out of the window that overlooked the food market, as if h were waiting for someone to appear. A half-hour later the director was refreshed and ready. He laid the spacegram purposefully on the table. "Well, Tito, you've fetched me a long way at a most inopportune time. Whatever you have to say had better be good." Ren turned away from his vantage point at the window. "It will be," he said. "But the best way I can approach the intricacies of the situation is to start by showing you something. Unfortunately the time is yet a little early. Please take some wine." "If this is a fool's errand -- " Vestevaal said ominously. He did not bother to complete the sentence. He knew Ren as one of the most shrewd and efficient agents in the Company, and the long-standing association between the two men had bred a mutual trust and respect. Grumbling into his beard, Vestevaal accepted wine and came and stood by the window looking out at the busy, colorful market. "How long have we to wait for this great happening?" he asked. Ren shrugged. "She would normally be here by now. But I suspect the coming of your cushion-craft wiS have sturred tlnngs up a bit. The Hie thing you can rely pn in Anharitte is that every third man is a spy" "And every third woman?" asked Vestevaal mischievously. Ren shook his head. "The women count for almost nothing in Anharitte. Except one -- and that's the one we're waiting for." F inally becoming bored with the scene, the director turned away and began to explore the chambers. Ren remained obstinately at the window. Then a cry from the agent brought Vestevaal hastily back to follow Ren's indicating finger. "Here's what I was waiting to show you. Director. Do you see that girl down there?" "The tall ono in the orange dress?" "That's Zinder -- a bondslave of the Castle Magda on Thirdhill. She comes to the market daily, shopping for the Imaiz." "For a bondslave she's remarkably well dressed." "For a bondslave she's remarkable in too many ways." Ren turned back into the room to face Vestevaal. "Notice how the traders IF treat her. Almost with deference. #ie may be a slave, but there's none who would dare molest her. There's not a beggar or a bondsman on the three hills who wouldn't come to her defense -- even, at the risk of his life." Magno Vestevaal scowled. "Remarkable. It shows a degree of social unity I'd not have expected in such a feudal setup." "Great currents are at work here," said Ren. "But they run deep. To measure their pulse needs a careful finger. It wouldn't be naive to say that Zinder somehow represents what the Ahhfi as a race hope to become." "A bondslave?" The director was perplexed. "Yes, but what a bondslave! Study her carefully. Look at every detail about her -- polished to perfection. Notice the dignity in the way she walks. That poise comes from confidence. And the confidence comes from thorough training and education." "I don't see why you're making so much of her," said Vestevaal with a trace of irritation. "Many people groom their pets. I assume a slave girl in Anharitte is a legitimate part of a man's harem." "A slavemaster's control is absolute, including control of life and death," confirmed Ren. "But I don't think you quite understood me. I said training and education." "But you don't educate slaves -- not beyond what's necessary for them to perform their duties," objected the director. "Then one neeib to speculate on just what Zinder's duties are. We haven't yet found the full measure of her abilities. She's prpHcient in all thirteen space languages, is apparently gifted in music andarts and has a scientific knowledge that would probably qualify her for two or three degrees at a Terran university." "Fantastic," said Magno Vestevaal, when the implications had sunk home. He moved the curtain to gain a further look at the tall dark Ahhn girl who moved like a queen around the market. "How do you know so much about her, Tito?" "I paid good Company money to the Society ofPointed Tails to have her investigated. They devised many tests of her knowledge and aptitude by way of commerce and conversation. They were more than impressed by what they found." "How much confidence do you have in the society's report?" "Every confidence. In Anharitte, a society must keep perfect faith with its patron.'A society can refuse to accept any assignment -- and frequently does to 'avoid conflict of interests -- but once an assignment is accepted its terms and conditions become binding on its members even to the point of death. That's clan law, and its enforcement is savage." "Accepting that for the moment, perhaps you'd explain why you felt it nssary to spend Company money investigating a slave girl?" Ren cleared his throat. "Anharitte is a freeport not only for Roget but for all ship trade spaceward into the Hub. As a spacecommerce base it is priceless. The vast fortunes of the space combines and the merchant worlds have been possible very largely because of the facility offered by Anharitte as a Freetrade exchange. Make no mistake, Director, our own Company could not exist without commercial access to Anharitte." "I'm more aware of the fact than you arc," said Vestevaal, "or I would not be here nOw. What disturbs me is your implication that our access to Anharitte is at risk." "I see it this way," said Ren. "Anharitte is unique in having maintained its long-term social stability Mn spite of having been exposed to space commerce. There have been a few other freeports, but all have succumbed to the disadvantage of their planetary governments, requiring a disproportionate share of the value of the merchandise being shuttled through their territory. Anharitte is: different -- the tolls and levies remain nominal because they're shared only by the five aristocratic Houses: those of the Lords Di Irons, Di Rode, Di Guaard and by the Lady T Ampere -- and by the House of Magda. The influence of these few has maintained a rigid social structure -- albeit one with a slave base -- which has given the necessary stability to Anharitte." "True," said Vestevaal. "And it pays the lords very handsomely to maintain things just as they are. So I don't see what the problem is." "The Imaiz of Magda is rocking the boat," said Reh. "What makes you think that?" "Director -- have you any idea what happens to a slave base culture when somebody starts educating slaves to Terran graduate standard?" "You've made your point," said Vestevaal heavily. "Your culture goes unstable. Tt becomes contaminated with ideas like democracy, civil liberty and other corrosive notions. And finally it disintegrates." "And from the ruins somebody builds a so-called brave new order -- which is inherently more expensive for freetraders." "Which is inherently ruinous for freetraders," corrected Magno Vestevaal. "You were perfectly right to IF biggest threat to trade since the dissolution of the Omanite empire. And you're perfectly sure that the House of Magda is responsible?' "There's no doubt of it. It's entirely the work of the Imaiz." "How is the Imaiz different from the other lords of Anharitte?" "I think the clue lies in the word Imaiz itself. This translates variously as wizard, wise man or madman, depending on which Ahha dialect you speak. The suggestion is that the Imaiz is accorded the full rights of nobility because his magic is too potent to be ignored. The House of Magda has a long history of congenital insanity among its occupants -- a not surprising situation when you consider the close in-breeding that used to take place in aristocratic houses in order to keep the right of succession within a very narrow group. "The persistent mental aberrations of the rulers of Magda, usually a form of extreme megalomania, have given rise to many long-standing superstitions about the master of the fortress of Thirdhill. One of these is that the Imaiz has the ability to cast spells and control the future. History seems to show that few of Magda's occupants were very proficient in the black arts, for all the cruel and ingenious black rites they devised. But the present Imaiz appears to be r your newsstand? In your paperback bookshop? It distinguishes the only paperback company that is, publishirtg science fiction never before in paperback. brand-new collection of this triple-winning author's latest sf novelettes and short stories. Then there's a novel we think may be a Hugo rKminee. Michael See what you think. Brian M. Stableford. one of the most original minds in space-and-time. writes a new novel about an exploration team in a Dark nally, as a tribute to Edgar Rice Burroughs we have Lin Carter's marvelterior illustrations by Tim Kirk). Books. Inc. represents the direction of Donald A. Wollheim in finding the sf that readers really like. cornel and #c is the standard retail price A a difTerent proposition altogether." "You're surely not suggesting that he actually is proHcient in the black arts?" "No. And neither is he mad. I've a diflerent and more dangerous picture of the current Imaiz, Diondaizan. All the evidence points to the fact that he's cunning, ruthless, academic -- and probably of Terran origin." "The devil!" said Vestevaal. "I thought that outworlders weren't permitted to hold land titles on Roget." "They aren't. There's some sort of subterfuge at work here. But the fact that he's succeeded in becoming a holder is a measure of the man we're up against." II do you base your conjecture that he's a Terran," asked Vestevaal. "You've surely not been able to study the man himself?" "No. We've had to content ourselves with observing Zinder. She's genuine Ahhn stock -- but there's no academy on Roget that could give her the type of education she possesses." "But that still leaves the possibility of the Imaiz being from one of the other prime worlds." "True," admitted Ren. "But the Society of Pointed Tails is thorough in investigating such matters. During their inquires they uncovered a most significant fact. When calculating, Zinder works in decimals to the base ten -- then converts the answers to the galactic duodecimal system." "That's nothing special," said Magno Vestevaal. "I do the same myself." "My point entirely. Director. Your primary education was on Terra and you can't get out of the habit. Whoever trained Zinder had a similar habit. And Terra's the only planet in the universe that still clings to the base ten." "Point taken, Tito. Your efficiency does you credit. It won't go unrewarded, I promise you. But it does look as though there's a hell of a storm brewing for Freetrade on Anharitte. From your observations, does this look like part of a deliberate takeover by the House of Magda?" "No. Far worse than that. It looks like interference with the social structure by an inveterate dogooder more interested in the welfare of the bottom four-fifths of the population than he is in legitimate profit." " 'Curse all saviours of the human race -- for they are responsible for most of the blacker parts of history!' " quoted VesteIF vaal despondently. He moved back to the window and began to watch the tall slave girl again, now examining her every movement with a wiser interest. "Damn it, Tito, you know we can't let this happen, don't you?" "I know it," said Ren. "That's the reason I called you in. I want permission, financing and backing to organize an opporition to the Imaiz." "Interference with the internal politics of an independent planet is an extremely dangerous business." "But it wouldn't be the first time it has been done. Nor is what I propose strictly interference. It could rather be viewed as assistance in maintaining the existing balance of power. The Lords Di Rode and Di Guaard and the Lady T Ampere are scarcely going to side with the Imaiz and risk their income if not their lives if a revolution comes. Di Irons is the city prefect. He's a bit of an unknown quantity in this, but he's responsible for law and order, so I doubt if he'll reject our assistance in maintaining the status quo. Most of the societies grow fat under the present regime, so they're not going to welcome change either. And I'm sure the planetary government would love to have us thwart a provincial uprising for theih -- if it were done with discretion. That puts the major percentage of wealth, influence and interests on our side. Give me the facilities and I'll crush the Imaiz without leaving even a ripple on the surface." "Not so fast, Tito. We're nOt the only Company affected -- or even the largest. And we've the merchant worlds to consider. Before we take any action that might affect the future of Anharitte as a freeport we're going to need the approval of the Freetrade Council -- most particularly as insurance in case the venture goes sour on us. And before I dare approach the council I have to be absolutely certain that what you've told me is the truth. Not that I'm doubting you, of course, but it would be embarrassing if we were being manipulated into doing the dirty work for somebody who had a simple grudge against the Imaiz." "I appreciate your caution. If you wish I'll arrange for the senior scribes of the Society of Pointed Tails toi meet you so that you can question them directly." "No need for that," said Magno Vestevaal. "I think I can satisfy myself more easily." He moved toward the door. "What had you in mind?" Ren rose to follow him. "I'm going downstairs, of course. To have a word with Zinder." Ren's eyebrows rose. "I wouldn't advise it. And for God's sake -- remember she's well protected." "It was the truth of that proposition I wished to test. If that fact holds true, then the rest of the story holds true." Tito Ren sighed and reached for his sword belt. He paused only to fasten the ornate buckle before he followed the director out into the street. T he emergence of the two sunshine at the edge of the square -- the director purposefully striding towards Zinder, and' Ren following -- caused an immediate thrill of interest to run through the market place. There was a quieting in the pace of the bargaining, though each man pretended still to be about his business. The agent sensed rather than saw the evasive group of figures who moved to strategic positions in the crowd, prepared for trouble. Worst of all was the unspoken wariness of the merchants, traditionally neutral in political affairs. If Vestevaal forced the incident into an affray, then even the dour men of small commerce seemed likely to side with Zinder. Ren normally had complete confidence in Vestevaal's ability to contain a crisis. However, Ren was from habit more attuned to the local undercurrents in Anharitte than Vestevaal could be. Purely from luck of "feel"f the situation the director might provoke an explosive incident. Under his tunic Ren could feel the comforting weight of his blaster. He would hesitate to use the' weapon in such a populated place, but, if necessity demanded, he could drop a dozen men with a single charge. "You there! Girl -- come here." Vestevaal was approaching Zinder, calling imperiously. She turned her head and waited for him, her face composed, as if the meeting were an event not unexpected. The director stopped suddenly as he realized she intended that he must l)e the one to walk the intervening distance if he wished to speak with her. She plainly did not propose to come to him. "I said come," said Vestevaal, knowing the delicate dictates of slave etiquette. She looked him up and down with shrewd appraisal, then turned back to the merchant at whose stall she was and continued her transaction. The director sensed that all eyes were upon him and wondered how he would resolve the offered slight. It was unthinkable for any slave other than Zinder to have disobeyed a public command from a man so obviously a prominent outworlder. Vestevaal realized that he IF had trapped himself into an open contest of wills. He could not afford to let the matter pass. He strode angrily across the remaining distance and caught hold of her left wrist, on which the slave mark was indelibly written. At close quarters she was attractive rather than beautiful in the classic sense. Her dark hair framed a strong face, which displayed an unassailable character. But more impressive was the rich by-play of emotions continuously monitored in her eyes. "I thought so -- the House of Magda." Vestevaal was emphasizing the aspect of bondage, trying to draw a reaction. "Your master will be hearing from me. You're the one they call Zinder, aren't you?" "But of course. Director Vestevaal. But then you knew that before you came across here. Indeed, I am the reason you came." Her voice was clear and melodious, modulated with a subtle artistry. Her speech was perfectly articulated Terran in which the attractive lilt of the native Ahhn accent had been carefully preserved. "But I'm glad you did come. Peering from behind a curtain is rather undignified for a man of your standing with the Freetrade Council." "Damn!" said Vestevaal, knowing that he was now the center of an attentive audience. "You take much on yourself, girl. Not only do you open wounds, but you also apply salt." "Salt? Only to the wounds of enemies," she answered easily. "Among friends salt is for sharing at table. If I've off'ered salt. Director, it's you who have chosen how to use it." or displeasure, only an engaging challenge. Behind the eyes were limitless funds of resourcefulness. Though her lips were smiling slightly, they showed neither insolence nor arrogance. She was meeting him on an equal level and both of them knew it. What had started as a deliberate confrontation had ended in a rout for Vestevaal. His wry smile of admiration turned into a great gust of laughter and he reached this time for her right hand and kissed it. "As you so rightly said, Zinder, it was I who chose how to use the salt. But whereas a man can mostly choose his friends, circumstances choose his enemies for him. There are times when one could wish the reverse. Please present my compliments to the Imaiz -- and tell him that if ever he wishes to dispose of your bond he will find in myself an eager purchaser." "I will convey your words to Dion-daizan. Fm sure he'll be both amused and flattered." "And also tell him that I mean to stop him by every means at my disposal." "That isn't news. Director Vestevaal. Had he not been convinced of it he would not have bothered sending me here today." "He anticipated this meeting?" 'The chance of this or something like it was highly probable. He felt it only fair you should know the character of the opposition." "He could scarcely have made the point more strongly." "What else would you expect of the wizard#f Anharitte?" She bowed respectfully and moved away like a colorful flower among the stalls, the barest hint of triumph on her lips. The tension that had held the cluttered market in a long hiatus drained slowly away and the noisy chaUer of bargaining returned. Ren, who had been silent to this moment, moved to the director's elbow. "I told you I didn't advise it," he said critically. "You were right, Tito," Magno Vestevaal told him. "I should have listened to you more carefully. Mark that round to the credit of the Imaiz. If that's a sample of his tactics we'll be needing more than moral support from the Freetrade Council." "Then you're satisfied with my assessment of the situation?" "Send word to have the shuttle readied for blast-off' as soon as I reach it. I'll be calling an emergency session of the council and asking for their backing with all the facilities we ne. With the evidence I shall give them I doubt there will even be a debate. In the meantime, you're in charge here. You have my authority to draw whatever Company funds you need. Stop the Imaiz, neutralize his policy or just plain kill him -- I don't mind which. But if he turns many more slaves like Zinder loose in Anharitte we're surely going to have another democracy on our hands. And what will become of Freetrade then?" Ill function of the societies in Anharitte it was necessary to view them against the background of the uneasy truce local feudalism maintained. The burgeoning space technology barely thrust outside the city's limits. Almost alone among the institutions of Anharitte, the societies had been forced to adapt to the twin pressures and now formed a precarious link at once joining and keeping separate the rival ways of life. IF Historically the societies had been clans of skilled mercenary soldiers who offered their services to any who found it beneficial to use hired arms rather than maintain their own forces. In either attacking or defensive roles, the clans had played a great part in the early formation of the "kingdoms" from which the great Houses of Roget had emerged after the adoption of central government. With the coming of less turbulent times the societies had found new exercise for their warlike crafts. When the thriving communities had outgrown the protection afforded by the great castles on the three hills, the merchants outside the citadels had become exposed to attacks by Tyrene pirates who came up the broad Aprillo river. Many merchants had then found it expedient to use the armed services of the societies to protect their homes and warehouses. From this had evolved the contract system whereby a merchant engaged a society for protection but paid for the service only as and when it was required. This function, too, sharpened the efficiency of the societies themselves, because the best protection contracts went to the clans with the proven ability to preserve the life and wealth of their patrons. As piracy became a less profitable profession, the idea of # by Patrick Moore with # full-color paintings by David A. Hardy Foreword by Arthur C. Clarke Not Sci-Fi, but the likely next  steps in man's exploration of the solar system and the universb beyond. welcome this book , , , It provides a heady mixture of education, entertainment -- and Inspiration' Arthur C. Clarke If you are fascinated by the vast expanse of the worlds beyond our own. make this your personal Christmas gift... to yourself I #V# X #" only # wherever books ere sold in space. contract protection remained. Always adaptable, the societies were swift to monitor the change and quick to evolve new services tp offer. Slave control in the expanding estates was an obvious extension. The passing of two disastrous plagues brought about the introduction of society hospitals. Frequent fires in the huddled wooden buildings caused the initiation of society fire services. Thus the outworld concept of insurance found a more personal and practical analogue in Anharitte. Yet the warrior function of the societies was not forgotten. A man with the price might still arrange for the skilled disposal of his rival or the waging of a feud with an enemy. While the taking of life in Anharitte was not necessarily a crime, disturbance of the peace of the city was an offense. The societies learned to conduct their affairs with great discretion under the grim and scowling eyes of a prefecture which neither approved nor disapproved of what they did -- provided the quiet life of the city was maintained. The coming of the spaceport had further enhanced the societies' role. No outworlders were permitted to hold property titles on Roget -- a necessary praution for a culture intending to preserve its own identity in the face of commercial outworld interests -- but there was nothing to stop outworlders entering into contracts with a society and leasing buildings held in the society's name. The same applied to slave-bonds and to every other form of transaction that had to be registered with the prefecture. Thus the societies, inextricably part of the old culture, became also the bridgehead of the new. As a Company agent more astute than most, Tito Ren had long since learned the value of an in-depth study both of the history and the cultural mores of the territories to which he was assigned. Thus he had been quick to recognize the multiple role of the societies and equally quick to adapt the system to his own requirements. His researches had shown the Society of Pointed Tails to be not only the most efficient of the available clans, but also the one still most proficient in the use of arms in situations where the rudimentary laws of Roget could not be bent sufilciently to gain t necessary advantage for an ambitious freetrader. Ren had wooed the members of Pointed Tails by concentrating his considerable leasings of property, services and local labor with them. He pursued his advantage by offering them well-paid investigation assignments probing those aspects of life in Anharitte he found of IF interest. Now he was ready to move into the next phase -- that of actually using the Pointed Tails as an instrument with which to manipulate particular elements of Anharitte society itself. He was prepared to recognize, however, that a society as competent as the Pointed Tails would not be likely to accept his propositions without question. Nor was he wrong. of the Society of Pointed Tails, looked questioningly at Ren. "You've already spoken with your director, then?" "I have -- and he's in complete agreement. The Imaiz will have to be stopped. The director has already given me access to whatever i Company funds I need in order to make a preliminary approach, to you -- and now he has gone to consult with the Freetrade Council. If they concur. I'll have unlimited funding from the Galactic Bank itself and whatever additional facilities I choose to call on." "And you wish the Pointed Tails to prepare a scheme of harassment and feud against Dion-daizan?" "I need more than a feud. I need to crush Diori-daizan. Harassment may have its place -- but if it doesn't bring results I'm prepared to consider anything short of full-scale warfare." "And the Prefect Di Irons? Do you think he's going to sit by happily whileyou wage war on the Imaiz?"' "I intend to seek the support of all the lords of Anharitte, Di Irons among thejn. If we can gain their backing plus that of the Freetrade Council, the Imaiz won't stand a chance." about his muscled body, took a pensive turn around Ren's booklined chamber. He was obviously not enthusiastic. "I think you oversimplify about the lords," he said. "Di Irons will never support you in an overt act of war against the Imaiz, whatpvw his private sympathies. Di Guaard is so insane he's still holding an inquisition to find pirates who became extinct two generations ago. Di Rode will listen to you, but he's unlikely actively to support an outworlder against another House of Anharitte. Only the Lady T' Ampere appears as a possible ally--thought I doubt you'd be prepared to pay her price for the alliance." "And the Society of Pointed Tails?" asken Ren. "Will they support me?" Catuul frowned. "I can't anticipate the decision of my fellow scribes. I'll call an immediate meeting of the lodge and recommend they take your assignment. ' But there will be much argument." "What's there to argue about?" "About the possibility of losing the fight. It's easy enough for you to wave money and say you want to crush the Imaiz. But did you never think that Dion-daizan may prove powerful enough to crush the lot of us?" "That isn't possible," said Ren. "Because whatever strengths he has, I can call on resources to match his ten times over. This is one fight you can't possibly lose." "Your thinking is typical of an outworlder's," said Catuul. "You don't appreciate Dion's considerable influence with the bondslaves -- or his command of magic. Believe me, you under-estimate his potential, or you would not so lightly engage in plans for his destruction." "Dion-daizan is a fraud. He's a Terran adventurer -- with no more occult powers than you or I." Catuul shrugged. "Call him by any name you like. We know him as a formidable and unforgiving enemy. He never aillows an injury to pass unavenged." "I can always approach another society if the Pointed Tails have cowards among their members," said Ren coldly. "Cowards?" Catuul swung on him angrily. There are none braver or more dedicated than the Pointed Tails. It isn't they ;who might falter -- but you." "IT' Ren was perplexed. "Of course. If the society accepts your assignment every man is committed to the death. But you have the option to rescind the contract at any time. If the going gets too rough you can retreat offworld to lick your wounds and total up your losses. But we can't. We have to continue operating here in Anharitte -- and the Imaiz makes no distinction between those who are paid to injure him and those who do the paying. Only the scrolls tell of the remains of societies who once tangled with the Imaiz and lost." "Nevertheless," said Ren, "that isn't going to happen. If ever I drew back, the Freetrade Council would replace me with another. They can't afford to do otherwise. And their resources have no limit -- they can acquire them a thousand times faster than we can exhaust them. I'm oflering you the backing of a dozen merchant worlds and seven hundred space companies and combines -- to fight one man and a handful of slaves. Tell that to the other scribes and see if they share your doubts." "I'll tell them," said Catuul gravely, gathering his robe across his arm. "And I think they'll be convinced. But it will be a close deIF cision. I'll let you have our answer in the morning." Ren turned his attention to the radio link with the space terminal. From the spaceport the equipment reached out in real time to the relay chains across the vastnesses of commercial Interstellar space. In response to his inquiry he learned that an incoming call from Freetrade Central was already logged a mere five hours away. Finally Vestevaal's voice came through. "Tito, can you hear me clearly?" "Yes, Director. Transmission is good. Did the council meeting go in your favor?" "It did indeed. They were even more perturbed than we -- especially those who have big investments nearer the Rim. The outcome is that we've ot all the support we need. The Galactic Bank will give you unrestricted credit. Any Freetrade ships calling at Anharitte will be obliged to offer assistance -- and the merchant worlds of Combien and Ranee are donating a light battle cruiser to be set down on Anharitte for the duration of the exercise. The battle cruiser will have most of the facilities you might require in the way of laboratories, trained commandos, communications, armaments and the like. You've enough there to start a war if you should need to." "It mustn't come to that," said Ren. "If we upset the planetary government we'll be thrown off' Roget for sure. Our best chance is to try to woo the local lords to our side, then to Tight an undercover campaign against the Imaiz. Then we can divide Magda's share of the spaceport royalties among the remaining Houses and expect the dust to settle pretty fast." "You're the man on the spot, Tito, so it's your advice that counts. I'll be returning to Roget shortly, but purely as an observer and to maintain liaison with the Freetrade Council. I may advise on policy, but the strategy and conduct of the battle will be entirely your affair. I hope that arrangement is to your liking." "I couldn't have asked for better. Terran or no Terran, if we have modern weapons and the support of the other lords, the Imaiz hasn't got a chance." "I wish I completely shared your confidence," said Magno Vestevaal, signing off. "But Zinder didn't have to make that confrontation in the market. For the moment I almost wondered if the Imaiz wasn't spoiling for a fight. the next morning with the Pointed Tails' acceptance of the offer. The price was high, but Ren brushed aside the financial considerations. ""You managed to Find agreement, then?" Catuul grimaced. "Some of the scribes had reservations, but they're all alarmed by what the Imaiz is doing. Certainly they respond to your argument that if we're to maintain things in Anharitte as they now stand, some form of action is necessary to curtail Dionto finance and supply backing for the skirmish makes it easier for us to do what we should finally have been forced to do anyway. In some ways this is an alliance -- and there are other societies who may contribute to our cause." Ren held out his hand in accepUnce of the bargain. "Then it's settled. TYit Imaiz will be stopped." "He will b. But initially we must proceed by customary feud and harassment. Only if these measures aren't effective can we consider outright war." "I'll accept that," said Ren. "You start to prepare a campaign against the mmr. I'll do some preliminary canvassing for support among the other lords. I suggest we meet again in two days time to decide our plan of action." L at once aware of being observed. He had not gone far through the quaint and narrow streets before a prefecture watchman approached him. "Agent Ren?" "The same." The watchman had obviously been waiting for him to emerge. "What services can I offer?" "If you please, you will accompany me to the prefecture. Lord Di Irons wishes to speak with you." "And I with him," said Ren, though he recognized the summons for the imperious demand tjiat it was. If he had thought of declining the invitation the appearance of two more watchmen behind him pointed up the wisdom of cheerful compliance. Even in the bright sun the prefecture looked cold and uninviting. The wide portals shaded the dim chill that seemed resident in the very fabric of the building. Tito Ren could not repress a shiver as he entered the main door. The stone corridors of the law were always an anathema to him. Di Irons' office was large and grimly impressive. On the same scale was the man himself. Huge, bearded, and with a shock of rustred, unruly hair, he was as unlike the typical Ahhn as was Ren himIF self. His very presence spoke of strength and granite resolution. The prefect was obviously not a man to be li gh tly deflected from his task. "Agent Ren -- " the handshake was a mere formality -- "I've asked you here because we need  better understanding of each other. My job is to maintain the law in Anharitte. Yours is to run a profitable exchange of trade through our sea and spaceport facilities. It would be a pity if in pursuit of our respective duties we should happen to collide." "Indeed a pity." Ren shifted uncomfortably on his chair. "However, I think the possibility is slight. We traders are aware that we remain hpre on sufferance." "Don't fence with me," said Di Irons savagely. "I spoke of understanding. We both know that the lords of Anharitte are as much dependent on your money as you are upon access to the freeport facilities. So let's speak frankly. I know that you and your director intend making feud with the Imaiz." Ren examined his inquisitor warily. "You know of that?" "Of course. Not much occurs in Anharitte that isn't known in the prefecture. Whether or not we choose to act on what we know depends on our interpretation of the law. Provocation isn't an offense. But if Vestevaal had struck Zinder the other day we'd have been very much concerned." "To protect a slave?" Ren affected a measure of surprise he did not feel. Di Irons' voice was quieter now but just as dangerous. "No. We would have had to intervene to protect yoiir stupid hides. And that offends our idea of preservation of the peace. You're no stranger here, Ren. You know which way the tides flow in Anharitte." "I know it," said Ren, "but the director needed proof of my interpretation." "Well, I gather he got it. But I don't advise him to make an open confrontation like that again. Zinder has too many sympathizers to make it a healthy pastime. But what escapes me is why your director needed proof of her ability to cut him down to size." "Because it's my contention that if the Imaiz continues to educate slaves to her level, the slave structure will crumble. Your society as it now exists will crumble. Don't ask me what will replace it -- but it will certainly be a system with less tolerance toward Freetrade than the one we enjoy at the moment." "So that's it." Di Irons was suddenly caught by the speculation. "You asked for understanding," said Ren. "Well, I've shown my blade. Now dare you return the gesture? #don't imagine you lords of Anharitte would look upon the withdrawal of Freetrade with much favor." "No!" Di Irons reacted violently. "You'll not involve me in politics. The Imaiz may be ill advised in the way he treats his slaves. But if I were to take arms against every slavemaster I considered ill advised I would not have half enough cells in which to hold them -- or a tenth enough tormentors to make their stay uncomfortable. In any case, I think you're reading more into this than is written. I know Dion well. He's U frequent guest in my household." "And Zinder? Is she a frequent guest, too? A slave?" "If Dion wills it. A slavemaster's rights over his bondslaves are absolute -- and that's a principle I must uphold. If he chooses to pretty her and pamper her it's no concern of mine. She would not be the first bondslave to become a favored concubine -- though I'll not say that's what she is. If Dion is pleased to bring her to my table I'll be the last to interfere. In any case, Zinder's a charming and cultured girl." "And you approve of a bondslave's being educated to this level?" "I don't necessarily approve when a master has a slave stoned to death for some imagined slight. My function is not to judge but to maintain the law. Thus far I've no evidence that Dion-dfaizan has broken it." us in protecting Anharitte from the Imaiz' s slave policy?" "I'm not even convinced there is any threat. A man who owns slaves must always be on guard against rebellion -- and I fancy Dion runs less risk of this than most. But above all, the law must be neutral -- or it ceases to be law and becomes tyranny. Let it not be said that a prefect of Anharitte used his position to persecute others on the word of an outworld merchant's agent. "If you think you have a grievance against Dion-daizan you can have recourse to the supreme court in Gaillen. Or you can attempt to achieve satisfaction through the services of a society. But let them advise you on tactics. The societies know how to operate with discretion. If your feud moves into the public realm I shall act -- and act decisively and without favor. Do I make myself clear?" "Would you also move against the Imaiz if the necessity arose?" "The lords of Anharitte have certain rights of arms. Outside those, whoever destroys the peace of Anharitte will be forced to acIF count to nic. That goes for the Imaiz, for the other lords -- and most especially for you, Ren. Agent you may be, but if you assume the role of agent provocateur then you'll not find us so hospitable." Ren scowled with disappointment. "I doubt the other lords would condone your tolerance toward the activities of Dion-daizan and his slaves." T HE prefect exploded in anger. "You're an outworlder, Ren. Don't try and tell me what Di Rode and Di Guaard and the Lady T' Ampere would or wouldn't think. I was raised with these people. I know what they think better than they know it themselves." "But you weren't raised with the Imaiz' said Ren coldly. "Because the suggestion is very strong that he's a Terran. Don't tell me that doesn't offend your precious law?" For the first time Di Irons seemed unsure of himself. "You have evidence to support that statement?"  "No positive proof as yet. But I will have. Don't you query the rights of the claimants to your aristocratic Housfes?" "Query?" Di Irons was grimly amused. "Do you think I would dare look closely at the credentials of Di Rode or Di Guaard -- or they at mine? How many murdered infants do you suppose would e found in the moats? Which unfortu: nate son went alive into his tomb behind the new wall in the tower? Whose mother is that demented crone who . has sat in chains for thirty years in the dungeon? The rights of the title go to the claimant with the ability to survive at the top. The state acknowledges the title of the House -- the holder of the title declares himself." "I understand all that," said Ren patiently. "But surely the position is different if the occupant of the. title is an outworlder?" "It would be -- if the matter could be proved. Then I would have to act. But you've admitted you don't have the evidence Until you do, I submit you're playing a very dangerous game." "Dangerous in what way?" asked Ren. "I know Dion well. He's shrewd, resourceful -- and his information is impeccable. What do you think he'll be doing while you wander the countryside trying to stir trouble against him? I strongly advise you to guard your back, not to visit dark places alone and to engage a taster to test your food. If you were to die -- I'm sure I'd have a hard time trying to hang the responsibility on Dion-daizan." "I'll remember that. But in the meantime, think' over what I've said. I doubt even you would refuse a quarter of Magda's share of the income from the spaceports concession." "I prize ssome things above money," said Di Irons. "And one of them is life. Nobody in his senses provokes a needless quarrel with a man as far-reaching and formidable as Dion-daizan. I know it's not fashionable among Freetraders to speak of magic and superstition, but some of the works of the Imaiz are well beyond the powers of man." "That I must yet have proved to me," said Tito Ren. "Forthe moment I prefer to regard him merely as an academic Terran adventurer with ho supernatural powers." "It would be churlish of me," said Di Irons, "not to wish you a successful venture. If what you've told me is true I stand to gain or lose as much as you. But I would need more reason than you've given before l iaised my hand against the wizard of Anharitte. Take care, merchant. You've chosen a stronger enemy than you think." The conversation was interrupted by a knock on the door. A watchman came in, apologized for the intrusion and handed Di Irons a note. The latter read it, looked questioningly at Ren for a moment -- then his face broke into a wry smile. "It appears I spoke more truly than I knew. Don't tell me after this that you don't believe in the powers of the Imaiz." "Why? What's happened?" "You rent a bonded oil and spirit warehouse on the quayside of Firstwater?" "I do." Ren was half on his feet. "What's the trouble?" "It's on fire," said Di Irons. "You had best get down there. I think this will not be the last conversation we'll be having on the matter, so you have my permission to proceed. But tomorrow I'll be asking questions. I don't tolerate the destruction of property in a private feud -- and if I find proof that either you or Diondaizan has done this deliberately, an accounting will have to be made." "I'm not likely to set fire to my own warehouse," said Ren bitterly. "And Dion's not stupid enough to indulge in ordinary arson," said Di Irons. "Or in any event. I've never been able to prove he is. If you find me some proof, Ren, I'll guarantee to lay it where it belongs." IV. R en thought of returning to his chambers for his cushioncraft. IF Then he realized that the poling of the vehicle by stavebearers through the city streets and down the Trade Road would be a slow and tiresome business. A mule cart would be quicker -- but not much. The total distance from the prefecture to Firstwater was no greater than two kilometers and much of the way lay down the slopes of Firsthill into the valley formed with Thirdhill on the other shore. Overall he calculated he could make the journey more quickly on foot and he set out at a labored jog -- with complete disregard for lack of dignity or sweat. He had barely cleared the fringes of the buildings and come out at the end of the Trade Road overlooking Firstwater when he became aware of the broad smoke column rising into the sultry air. If he had thought the fire might only be a minor one his surmise was soon corrected. Even through the dense smoke cloud he could see the bright seat of the flame -- and its visibility at this distance told him that the conflagration must be total as far as his installation was concerned. The Trade Road was easy to negotiate. Such carts as were on it were also moving downhill, laden with spectators eager to witness the fire. Most of these vehicles, braked with iron wedges and chains against the slope, were easily overtaken, and his urgent running raised a great deal of amused comment. On the Via Arena the crowds thickened and the road to Magda Crossing was nearly impassable in the direction of the river. Fortunately a group of Pointed Tails met him and forg him a path through the mobs to a point near the burning warehouse. The Pointed Tails' fire appliance was there -- with all its handcranked absurdity. So obviously inadequate was it against the roaring inferno that confronted it that it had not been put into even token use. Two other societies had also brought their appliances, but these were equally useless and stood well clear of the outer perimeter fence, where they would not be affected by the intense heat. The fire itself was overwhelming. The whole building, with walls of massive stone blocks, vibrated with the tremendous roar of the furnace within. The structure had no windows, and the two exterior doors jetted streams of angry flame like enormous blowlamps. The roof, once a structure of heavily tarred wood, was completely gone. Surmounting the walls was a continuous crown of fire, which produced such intense heat that the spectators had to move back repeatedly to avoid being scorched. The warehouse ' had two perimeter fences, one contained within the other, but it was now impossible to approach the building nearer than the confines of the outer fence. Here Ren found Catuul Gras, his face heavy red from the heat, Catuul was watching the progress of the conflagration with frank disbelief. His expressive glance at Ren suggested both physical and mental agony. He gestured toward his own useless fire appliance. "I took the liberty of calling on the spaceport for emergency assistance. I hope I didYight' "Exactly right," approved Ren. "How did the fire start?" "We don't know. No goods have moved in or out of the warehouse for fifteen days. Everything was secure on the last round of the society guards and the picket between the fences has been strictly maintained. The fire started behind locked doors and we're certain that nobody could have entered." "Could some sort of time fuse or incendiary mechanism have been placed inside?" Catuul grimaced. "I know of no device obtainable hereabouts with such a long delay. But if you're thinking this is the work of the Imaiz you pose a paradox. Those doors were sealed several days before your quarrel with Dion-daizan became actual. You could only suspect his hand if you were prepared to credit him with the magical powers you deny he possesses." "Nevertheless, the timing's too perfect to be a matter of coincidence. Even Di Irons hinted he suspected that the Imaiz was behind it. Well, if it is Dion's work and there's any evidence left to prove it, it will give us a good start for our harassment. Di Irons is all set to string up the Imaiz by the thumbs if he's found responsible for the destruction of property during a private feud. All he needs is proof -- and here come the boys who can give it to us." M ovement among the watchers on the road signaled the arrival of the cushioncraft emergency tender from the spaceport. Behind it came two more tenders containing compound foam and chemicals and were deftly manipulated into place. In complete contrast to the laughable native fire appliances, these three vehicles, normally reserved for spacecrash emergencies, were magnificently equipped and manned by trained and competent crews. Within seconds the great pumps were working and hoses were being run out as far as the river to bring in the additional water necessary to complete the work of the foam coverage. IF Pictor Don, the spaceport's emergency commander, spared neither Ren nor Catuul a glance as he deployed his facilities for maximum effect. The foam from the hoses hit the side of the building and wherever it touched it solidified into glass slag and instantly formed an air-excluding seal that was also an impressive heat-reducing barrier. The properties of the solidifying foam were such that it could easily withstand the temperatures involved, while its noncommunicating cellular structure was light, yet strong enough to prevent the collapse of all but the heaviest parts of buildings. In dealing with a fire of these proportions the shell of the building could literally be filled with foam in a matter of minutes with a hundred per cent expectation of complete extinction of the fire. The radiated heat fell away dramatically as the foam blanket coated the waUs and the forecourt. Ren and Catuul followed the fire the building's shell with foam began. After a short while, however, they became aware that something was wrong -- the flames in the interior, instead of yielding, had become concentrated in one central spot and now roared like a volcano. The flare hurled large pieces of congealed foam high into the air to fall at a distance, to the intense consternation of the onlookers. Finally Pictor Don dropped down from his command point and came over to Ren. "What have you got in there, Tito? Rocket fuel?" The agent shook his head. "No. Mainly high-grade crude oils and essential oils waiting shipment offworld to Ranee for refining." "But the oxidants," protested Don. "You should know better than to store oxidants with flammables." "There are no okidants there. In fact, no tonnages of oxidants are available on Roget." Pictor Don shook his head. "That foam can extinguish anything up to and including a blazing well-head without trouble. But you've got something in there that could have put the whole building comfortably into orbit had the jet been pointed down instead of up. A few tons of liquid oxygen would do the trick with your highgrade oil -- but without oxygen you couldn't produce a flare like that in "No oxygen," said Ren. "There's not a liquid oxygen plant within sixteen light-years of Roget and it's a dead certainty that oxygen is not imported." A cry from a member of the fire team indicated that the situation was changing. Pictor Don returned to his post and Ren saw the bright plume of flame above the building gradually diminish and finally become extinguished by the solidifying foam. The fire was out. "What happens now?" asked Catuul. "First they extract the heat from the surface by cooling the mass with water. Then they progressively add alkali to the water and this slowly dissolves the foam. By control of what they spray they can stop the process at any point to allow the removal of potentially dangerous masonry or to inspect for signs of arson before the evidence is too much disturbed." T 'HE fire team was now spraying riyer water from its hoses, but such was the heat-insulating effectiveness of the cellular mass that very little of the intense heat still trapped beloy the surface was available to be carried away by the water. Pictor Don mounted a hydraulic hoist and climbed from it building's walls. The strength of the glasslike substance was such that his weight barely dented the surface. He scrunched over almost the entire area of the warehouse on a quick tour of inspection. He ordered alkali to be applied. About a thirty-centimeter layer of the foam was stripped from the surface by chemical leaching. Newly exposed fragments of the building were cooled ' with water and a second round of inspection followed. Then the emergency commander approached the edge of the building and called over the wall. "Get Tito Ren up here -- and that Pointed Tail fellow." Somewhat reluctantly Ren and Catuul Gras allowed themselves to be conducted to the hoist and raised to the top of the wall. There was something unnerving about stepping onto a layer of foam that had been a sprayable liquid such a short time before. The surface felt alarmingly fragile. Overcoming their fears, however, the two walked across the crunching surface toward Pictor Don. At a certain point he cautioned them to stop. "Mind where you put your feet in that area just in front of you. There's a giant bubble in the foam reaching, as far as I can judge, right down to base level. That was the blowhole through which the last flame persisted. Unless I miss my guess, the root cause of the fire lies directly at the bottom end of that bubble. Does its position give you any clues?" Catuul glanced around at the IF fra gm ents of outer wall visible above the foam, trying to verify his bearings. "We're located over what was the inner storeroom." "What was kept in there?" "The high-grade crude oil," said Ren. "In metal tanks?" "No. Wooden barrels. It's the only way the native producers will package it. Wharfage facilities don't run to the accommodation of tankers." "Wasn't there anything else?" Pictor Don was completely unconvinced. "Nothing," said Ren. "I counted the barrels myself. We werb going to repackage the whole consignment in spaceweight containers ready for shipment. And every single barrel was broached to obtain analysis samples, so I can guarantee that the store contained nothing but high-grade oil." "Very well." Pictor Don's voice still carried no evidence of conviction. He indicated that they should all return to the ground. The chemical stripping of the foam began again, with interruptions at intervals for repeated inspections. Finally Don again called for Ren and Catuul Gras. The thickness of the foam had been reduced to a meter. The space around the blowhole had beencompletely cleared for a radius of several meters. Ren and his colleague were now able to inspect the area Pictor Don regarded as the base of the fire. "A drain -- " Ren regarded the' charred and blackened area of the floor with astonishment. "Yes." Don was critical. "A drain you used to take the overspill of oil during the sampling of the barrels for analysis, perhaps?" "There was some oil spillage," agreed Ren. "But I don't see -- " "Where does the drain lead?" "To the river, I should hope." S econds later he was running across the broad forecourt toward the river, a sudden suspicion in his mind. The banks were complex with piers and moorings and wharves, but hard against the bank protruded one particular pipe whose end even now drained black dregs from the disastrous fire. The marks of a coupling that had been placed over the pipe's end were plainly visible -- the coupling itself was gone, along with the craft that undoujbtedly had borne it. Angrily Ren scanned the river. The slow drift of barges and ships -- left toward the spaceport and right toward the shipping lanes and the sea -- was a complex movement that defied analysis. The number of barges and ships provided too much information for Ren to be able to determine which craft might be erippedwith couplings to hold against his particular drain and discharge tonnage quantities of oxidant under pressure into the interior of the warehouse. Here was plain evidence of sabotage, but no proof of the sort that could be used to point a finger at Dion-daizan. "It was a honey of a scheme," Ren said later in grudging admiration. "We'll never convince Di Irons of the truth -- " Pictor Don had himself lowered on a cradle down to the entrance of the pipe. Here he explored with an instruments.  "The water from the hoscdown has washed out all real evidence," he said. "But I'd guess somebody's been feeding pure oxygen up this pipe -- and I'd say the probability was high that it was obtained by boiling off liquid oxygen." "And the ignition?" asked Ren. "They wouldn't need to bother. The oil would ignite spontaneously as the oxygen concentration went up. You've been rather cleverly sabotaged, Tito." "And no prizes for guessing by whom," said Ren morosely. "I thought you said there was no tonnage oxygen available on Roget?" "There are no plants that we're aware of, Pictor. Native industry isn't that far advanced. But I'm wondering if there aren't oxygen facilities in Castle Magda. A good , Terran technician supplied with the I sort of money the spaceport dues provide shouldn't have too much trouble building a liquid oxygen plant -- or any other technical facility, when you come to think of it." "But I don't see," said Catuul Gras, "how it could be known that putting Something up that particular pipe would result in a fire in our warehouse. There are hundreds of similar pipes to choose from. In any case, the drain at the other end of the pipe might not have been in the right position." "I think I know how that was decided," said Ren. "Somebody worked out the details of that episode from inside the warehouse." He indicated the gang of slaves now filing back into the warehouse compound ready to start the work of demolition and clearance. "If the Imaiz could bring Zinder to Terran graduate standard, how many other slaves has he similarly educated and then resold? It's slightly unnerving to think that we could have one or two graduate chemists working as bondslaves in our establishments. Think what an effective fifth column that would make. Is it possible, Catuul, that we've acquired some slaves the Imaiz might have trained?" IF "It's possible. "The Imaiz buys and sells many slaves, using many different auctioneers. Nobody save the prefeet would have a continous record of any single slave's history. Dion-daizan could hold one for years and then return him to the market -- and nobody would be the wiser." "But the auctioneers keep records of their individual triansactions?" "They keep all normal records by way of trade. What did you have in mind?" "I doubt Di Irons will allow us access to the prefecture records. But I need an individual history for every slave we possess. Go back to the auctioneers and use whatever pressures you must to obtain copies of their records relating to the slaves in whom we're interested. I'll have a computer programed at the spaceport. With it we should be able to reconstruct individual histories -- I want to know of any slave whose bond has been with the Imaiz for one year or more." "With what object?" "So that we may closely question those whom the Imaiz may have trained or influenced. They may tell us much about Dion, his objectives and his facilities. When we've finished we have the legal right to do with them whatever the evidence suggests. We should at least find the men behind the warehouse sabotage. Possibly we'll fihd many more who've not yet had the time to make a move against us." Catuul's eyes shone with comprehension. "It's a good plan, friend Tito. I don't anticipate much difficulty about copying the auctioneers' records. It's frequently done by those comparing slave stock for breeding purposes." "Then the matter is settled," said Ren. "When the director gets back he's going to expect us to have some pretty damaging ammunition aimed at the Imaiz. He's not going to be too happy about the loss of the warehouse. Some of the essential oils in it were priceless by any standards. From this point on we're very much at war with the Imaiz." V was much perturbed that the Imaiz had struck the first damaging blow in a fight essentially started by Ren. To cover himself Ren outlined his policy for evaluating the slaves and isolating those who had been under the Imaiz's influence. Vestevaal was impressed by the detail, but pointed out that the action was purely defensive. Wars were not won by orderly retreats. The merchant worlds of Combien and Ranee had firmly stressed to Vestevaal the importance of Anharitte as a freeport and had backed their stand by donating the battle cruiser now at the spaceport. The Freetrade Security Council had been just as vociferous and had not only pledged unlimited financial backing, but had insisted on sending a professional troubleshooter, Dr. Alek Hardun, as a technical backup for Ren's team. Implicit in this latter action was the threat that if Ren did not make a success of defeating the Imaiz, the merchant worlds and the Freetrade Council were quite prepared to move in a stronger cadre to settle the question. "Nevertheless," said Ren, "if we're to retain the cooperation of the societies, we must first observe the principle of harassment and feud. To attempt outright war on the Imaiz at this stage could set even the societies against us, because we're outworlders and they're indigenous. I know all the arguments, but if we turn public opinion against us the planetary government will have to act -- and we'll have lost the freeport anyway." "Well, it's still your show, Tito. But let's see some positive action against the Imaiz. I want to see him hit where it hurts and not only for my personal satisfaction. I have to make reports back to the Freetrade Council. I never was much good at making negative reports." "Then how about this for an opener? We intend to contest Zinder's bondship with Diondaizan." Vestevaal swung around abruptly. "Damn!" he said. "That would certainly make Dion sit up. How would you set about it?" Ren smiled wolfishly. "All bondships have to be registered at the prefecture -- and that's the only official record. If anything happened to the entry regarding the bondship of Zinder to Dion-daizan the Imaiz would have no legal way of proving his ownership." "And it can be arranged that something will happen to the entry?" "The register clerk is a minor member of the Society of Pointed Tails." "Surely it isn't as simple as that." "No. In normal circumstances the loss of the entry would not affect the position, because the rights of ownership of the bond would not be contested. But in this case the ownership will be called into question by the Pointed Tails acting on your behalf. As prefect. Lord Di Irons won't be very happy about the situation, but in order to uphold the law he'll have to impound IF Zinder until the matter is settled. That leaves Dion-daizan with two courses of action. He can take the case to the supreme court in Gaillen -- where he would win, of course, except that the litigation could take a year -- " "Or?" "He could take the quicker course of accepting the fact that he has no provable right to Zinder's bond. In that case binder would be put into the slave market, from which Dion-daizan could hope to buy her back." "As a very rich man he should have no trouble on that score," said Vestevaal dubiously. "No. But it's an open market. Anyone can bid who's entitled to hold a slave-bond. That rules you out as a direct participant, but ijt doesn't stop the Pointed Tails from acting on your behalf. If we bid against Dion, using our backing from the Galactic Bank as guarantee, we could force up the price to where even Dion's resources would be strained. We could make him cripple himself financially in order to save her."  The director smote hisknee in lusty approval. "You know, Tito, you've something of a genius for this sort of thing. Keep up this level of skulduggery and we'll see you on the Freetrade Council yet." H eartened, Ren stroUed down to the lodge of the Pointed Tails. The place always impressed and fascinated him. Here the ancient Ahhn customs and architecture had been carefully preserved from outworld influences. The walls and ceilings of the lodge were ornamented with red and gold reliefs showing stylized pictures of legendary battles, with captions worded in the original but now lapsed High-Ahhn cuneiform script. The whole establishment was richly carpeted, hung with remarkably descriptive tapestries and scented with delicate fragrances. It was the closest the Ahhn had ever come to creating a temple. In its halls the history of a proud and intelligent race was set out to show its richness and cohesion and a depth of culture that could have been the envy of many older civilizations. Catuul Gras seemed to be expecting him and Ren was not surprised. He knew the intimate web of observation and communication with which the societies laced the city. "Docs the director approve of the plan to contest Zinder's bond?" Catuul asked. "He does. We're to proceed as planned. I think we'd best make our move this afternoon, in case some suspicion of what we' intend leaks back tothemaz." "I agree, friend Tito. Speed and secrecy arc essential. We will watch for Zinder to come to the fruit market today. As soon as Fm sure she's there I'll have my colleague. Mallow Rade, lay formal complaint at the prefecture and demand her impoundment." r"And the entry in the register?" "That's already taken care of. The matter only waits for us to draw it to the prefect's attention. But news travels with the flics in Anharitte. I suggest neither you nor your director show yourselves outside your chambers until the watchmen have aixested her. I hope the prefect will have enough sense to bring sufficient men to prevent any trouble. As the director's agent, it will be necessary for you to be present at the formal discussion of the case afterward. It might be safer if the director didn't expose himself at all for a day or two." "I doubt he'll agree," said Ren. "But I'll try to get the point over to him. How's the work going on collecting information for preparing histories on the slaves?" "Slowly. As fast as we get the lists complete we're sending them by runner to Dr. Hardun at the spaceport." "Good. Have we any results as yet?" "Most interestingly, yes. We can't produce the histories until all the copying is complete, but already a pattern is starting to emerge. The Imaiz buys and sells many slaves in an apparently random fashion. But Dr. Hardun's pointed out that there's a system behind it." "Oh? What sort of system?" Ren was immediately attentive. "Dion-daizan has an arrangement with the slave auctioneers whereby he's notified when a new batch of slaves is available. He sends his steward to make a preliminary viewing, then bids heavily for those he chooses." "Which is surely a reasonable practice?" "Yes, except that he purchases many times his normal labor requirement. All but a few of these he shortly returns to the market for resale." "And presumably makes a profit on the deal." Catuul shook his head. "No. The significant thing is that he usually takes a loss because he outbid the market in the first place." "I don't see -- " Ren's voice carried a note of puzzlement. "Then, assuming he's no philanthropist, the value of the transactions must lie uniquely in the few he doesn't return for sale." Catuul nodded. "The only information we could gain about them was obtained by questioning the IF ones he rejected. It appears that all the slaves he purchases are given a very thorough medical checkup and put through a series of tests.'" "What sort of tests?" "I think you outworlders describe them as intelligence and aptitude tests. The few who pass remain with the Imaiz, The failures are returned to the market." "So that Dion-daizan is cultivating a select group of intelligent, capable and healthy slaves?" "Presumably. But it's interesting to guess at the standards he's working toward. Dr. Hardun examined the best of the latest batch the Imaiz had offered for resale. Sonie of Dion's rejects were not only above average intelligence and fitness for the slave caste -- they were also above average for citizens of any class." Ren's scowl caused his eyebrows to meet. "So Dion's not only building a select group of slaves, he's x;ulling an elite. Zinder's no happy accident. Nor is she likely to be unique. Damn -- how long has this been going on, Catuul?" "Certainly for ten years, probably longer. I suppose at least seventy per cent of marketable slaves in Anharitte have been through his hands at some time or another. And he also buys some in the provinces." startling evidence that modern science confirms the reality of telepathy, clairvoyance, precognition, and psychokinesis An Excursion into Parapsychology #, now at your bookstore "And pure-bred Ahhn stock is renowned for its high intelligence. Dion's probably acquired a concentration of brains in Nfagda that is unique on Roget -- perhaps unique on any of the known worlds. Can you arrange that only low-grade slaves are offered to Dion in future?" "I'll do what I can. With most auctioneers a little pressure will do the trick. The ones swe can't influence are those the Pointed Tails themselves are duty-bound to protect. We can't hurt one of our own clients for the beneflt of another." "Then tell them frankly what we think the Imaiz is about. Ask for their cooperation. It's in their interests to work with us because if the Imaiz wins, the slave trade dies." "It might work with some," said Catuul dubiously. "But others make much money out of the Imaiz, There will be many who won't want to offend him and who will be suspicious of your motives." VI R en stayed at the window of his... office chambers all that afternoon. Zinder was late arriving. Finally, however, her dark hair and proud bearing made her as apparent in the crowd as a lantern in the darkness. Even the excellence of her flowing gown set her as a woman apart and made her impossible to miss. Attuned as he was to the pattern of undercurrents in the populace, Ren could sense a tension in the market, as though some suspicion of what was to take place had already passed as rumor. Vestevaal frett in a chair behind him. A man of direct action, he had no use for patient observation from behind half-drawn curtains, nor did he accept the principle that feud and harassment were necessary preliminaries to destroying an enemy. Nevertheless he obeyed Ren's insistence that he confine himself indoors at least until after Zinder's arrest. He amused himself by interrogating the spaceport computer complex from Ren's line-fed office terminal and inspecting the agency accounts in the minutest detail. ' When the watchmen arrived Ren saw the tension visibly rise in the market. As they moved in the direction of Zinder the scene became tinged with menace almost to the point of open resistance. But Di irons knew his trade. As the arresting officers moved to take the slave girl a second force of watchmen deployed through the crowd ready to nip in the bud any pockets of disobedience. Even so the resentment was building to crisis proportions and some slight catalyst could easily have tipped the balance into violence. Ren understood now Catuul's insistence that Vestevaal should not be present when the arrest took place. Jt was Zinder herself, however, who averted the dangerous phase. She shrugged amusedly at the watchmen's advance, then turned and addressed herself to the crowd. Ren could not hear what she said, but he was certain from the attention she was receiving that she was completely in control of the situation. She calmed and pacified the group around her and told it something that proved such a huge IF joke that those nearest to her broke away laughing and went to retell it to others Prefect Di Irons thrust his way through and spoke to her. Again she laughed, and even he came out of the encounter with a reluctant smile curling the corners of his determined mouth. Then Zinder allowed herself to be escorted away. None of the watchmen touched her. They formed a double rank and she, obligingly, walked between them, moving off in the direction of the prefecture. The marketplace relaxed, yet returned not to trade but rather to heated and speculative conversation. Di Irons and the watchmen stood stolidly watchful for any hotheads who might try to rekindle hostility. When Catuul Gras came up, Ren met him at the door. "I think it's safe now, friend Tito. I have men enough to cover you to the prefecture. The hearing will take place as soon as Dion-daizan can get a spokesman there. Zinder has predicted to the crowd that the Imaiz will teach the director a great lesson. I must speak with him at once." "He's inside," said Ren. "Good. You go along to the prefecture. I'll follow as soon as I can." Ren buckled on his sword and carefully checked the readiness of the blaster which he wore concealed beneath his shirt. Warily he moved out into the square. Surprisingly, nobody seemed to pay him much attention. This was now the battle of the giants, the Imaiz versus Vestevaal. Ren was merely a bitplayer and not a main participant at all. As he passed out of the square a sudden grip on his arm made Ren swing round. He found himself face to face with the prefect. "Agent Ren, I'm not deceived. I can read your hand behind this little charade. I don't know what you hope to gain by antagonizing the Imaiz, but let me repeat my warning. Dion is more camming than you'll allow. Twist his tail too often and he'll break you into a thousand parts. And if your machinations cause public trouble in Anharitte -- I'll break you myself. I hope I make myself understood?" "Perfectly," said Ren. "But I pay well for the best available advisers and they guarantee we're engaged in nothing contrary to the law. I take it we've a perfect right to request that Zinder be impounded pending a legal enquiry?" "You have that right through a society," agreed Di Irons, "But I would not have thought you well advised to exercise it. The loss of the register entry is in itself suspect. I am now looking for a despoiler of prefecture records -- and Diondaizan will be looking for blood. I suspect that if I delay my inquiries a little my problem will be answered for me. Be very cautious, Ren. You've chosen a daierous adversary." T ' HE prefect moved away. Now that Zinder had actually been removed to the prefecture, the whole area had assumed an atmosphere of disturbed indignation that seemed unlikely to flare more violently. However, it was obvious that only the presence of so many watchmen had prevented a riot and open interference with the arrest. Ren understood how perilously close the incident had been to causing a breach of the peace and he saw that in this the Imaiz had a powerful weapon he" could use against the Pointed Tails. By creating a public outcry at a similar maneuver he could easily throw the blame back on to the society and its employer as the prime sources of public unrest. Ren's rival at the prefecture was just in time for him to witness the lodging of an ofFicial notice contesting the Imaiz s ownership of Zinder by Mallow Rade, a junior scribe of the Pointed Tails. When the paper had been recorded Di Irons, whose mood seemed to be one of thunder, called formally for a spokesman from the House of Magda to pose a rebuttal. For a long time nobody moved. Then, from the back of the crowd, a young slave pushed his way forward and presented his stewardship credentials to Di Irons. "Ah, Barii." Di Irons seemed slightly relieved. "Do you know how Dion-daizan wishes to proceed in this matter?" Barii, Who bore his slave mark, together with the house symbol of Magda, like a proud badge on his naked arms, nodded. Ren was watching the youth intently, noting the same quiet confidence in the boy he had recognized in Zinder. Here was both an intelligence and a competence that had no place in the slave. "May I see the register from which Dion's title is missing?" -- Di Irons brought out the volume and opened it to the disputed page, exposing the rows of names scrawled painfully in a large and almost illegible script. One of the entries had clearly been overwritten at a later date. There was no doubt that the alteration had been deliberate. Barii reached into his pouch and drew out some article the purpose of which was not plain until the electronic flash glared back from IF the yellowing pages. A second flash illuminated the startled face of the register clerk. Barii put his camera back into its pouch and bowed to Di Irons. If his fa held any expression at all it was one of concealed amusement and anticipation. Then Baii spoke. "Dion-daizan has noted the objections to his ownership of Zinder's bond. Everyone in Anharitte knows that Zinder's preeminence is largely due to her association with the House of Magda -- thus there can be no doubt of the true tenure of her bond. However, the Imaiz is immensely concerned about the maintenance of the law on the three hills. In consequence he has directed that, since no clear title to his ownership seems to be recorded in the prefecture, he will renounce his claim to being Zinder's legal bondholder. He requests that the slave in question be put to public auction and that the proceeds of the sale be dedicated to the public funds of the city, as is the custom." Di Irons had listened to this speech with growing disbelief. He seemed about to throw in some crushing protest, but was stopped by something he saw in Barii's face. The prefect's shrug was massive and uncomprehending. "So be it," he said. "It's the considered opinion of the prefecture that th# bondship of Zinder has no clear tenure. The slave woman called Zinder wiB therefore be returned to the market and submitted to public auction. Let it be known that anyone desirous of obtaining this property may attend tomorrow at the preset hour and bid legal coinage for unrestricted bond rights. The matter is now dismissed from these courts." Ren's attentive eyes fell upon the register clerk, whose hands had undoubtedly been responsible for the alteration of the entry. The clerk seemed relieved that Di Irons had so easily acceded to the contesting of the records, yet his nervous glances at Barii showed that he knew retribution was still due. The steward's act of photographing the entry had shaken him badly and his ashen hue was indicative of a deep and mortal fear. Knowing of the clerk's association with the Pointed Tails,, Ren was pleased to note that members of the clan moved protectively nearer to the clerk to guard him against danger. Di Irons was looking at his treacherous clerk with something akin to murder in his eyes. His sword hand convulsively gripped the hilt of his weapon. For a moment Ren thought that Di Irons was going to attack the fellow, but Barii moved between them and a  slight lift of his eyebrows caused the prefect to relax. Ren relaxed too. All Anharitte was watching the outcome of this dispute -- the supposed omnipotence on the Imaiz Was now on public trial. Diondaizan's easy acquiescence to the challenge might mean only that he had chosen the slave market as the quicker route for regaining Zinder's bond, but currently the wizard's public image must have suffered a lowering as a result of Ren's audacious move. Ren had well prepared the ground ahead. It was going to be an interesting battle. R en awoke in the night with a start. A house servant was shaking his arm. "Agent Ren -- wake up, please! The prefect sends for you urgently." Shaking the sleep from his head, Ren roused himself and forced his mind to concentrate. "What did you say?" "The prefect sends watchmen to guide you. The register clerk is dead." "Damn!" said Ren, struggling into his clothes. "What has it to do with me?" He went downstairs to remonstrate with the watchmen who waited in the downstairs office. The sergeant listened to his protest without expression. "The Lord Di Irons is aware of your position. Nonetheless he directs we conduct you to the place of the accident." "Accident?" The sergeant refused to be drawn out. "Come, Agent Ren. Lord Di Irons himself will explain the matter." Ren reached for his cloak, girded on his sword and reluctantly followed the watchmen into the night. The air outside was chill and damp with the clinging mists from the sea. The whole township was in darkness save for the occasional flare of the watch braziers and the torches carried by his escort. The sudden transition from sleep to the cold darkness and the leaping flames of the brands touched the scene with unreality made only more credible by the hardness of the shifting, round cobbles underneath his feet. The route the watchmen chose was unfamiliar to Ren, involving numerous turns down narrow streets and alleys until his whole sense of direction was destroyed. Finally the party halted in front of a mean drinking place and Ren waited impatiehtly while the watchmen knocked on a small aid unfamiliar door. Shortly, bolts IF were drawn and the great bulk of Di Irons himself loomed between the door posts. "Ah, Ren. Come in. You're an astute man, so I'm going to give you an opportunity to exercise your cleverness." The prefect leaned past Ren and instructed the watchmen to continue searching the area. Then he withdrew into the room and beckoned to Ren. The doorway was so small that even Ren had to duck his head as he entered. The ceiling inside was scarcely higher and the room stank of cheap alcohol and the presence of too many bodies. Ten of th Pointed Tails, Catuul Gras among them, sat in a circle around a flickering lamp, looking uneasify at Di Irons. On the far side of the room another door led out to a small bricked courtyard, which two watchmen illuminated with poled lanterns. Across the threshold of this second door lay the register clerk. He had a fatal wound in this throat and blood spread wide across the floor. Di Irons was crushing. "I lay the responsibility for this piece of mischief at your door, Ren." The statement caught Ren completely off guard. "Mine?" "Of course." "But I had nothing whatever to do with his death." "Then you should consider better the consequences of your actions. I know perfectly well that this man overwrote Dion-daizan's title in the register and I know that your money induced him to do it. Now he's dead because of it. If this piece of bloodshed is an example of how you mean to harass the Imaiz you'd be well advised to employ a more competent society." He spat in the general direction of Catuul Gras. "I admit I could have been an interested party," said Ren. But if the man's dead it was the Imaiz, who had him killed. Why don't you tax him with it?" "I would -- if I had a shred of proof. But we've found po trace of an assassin, no sign of any weapon. It's only our suspicion that the Imaiz would want this man destroyed. There's no tangible connection with Dion-daizan. If you can give me proof of his complicity. I'll take the issue to his door. Until then I regard this as the result of your own inept machinations." "You've found no weapon?" Ren was perplexed. He turned to Catuul Gras. "Weren't you here when it happened?" "I was -- we all were." Catuul's gesture encompassed his comrades. "We chose this house because it has only one door connecting with the street -- and that door could be stoutly bolted. The windows have shutters inside and the courtyard leads only to blank walls. Here, at least, we thought we could defend him from the mighty wrath of the Imaiz "Then what happened?" Ren was impatient. "We were drinking moderately and talking and because the roof is low the room soon grew hot. We opened the door to the courtyard to let in air, since we dared not unbar the windows. Even then, for safety's sake, we put three men in the courtyard so that no 'surprise attack could come from there." "And?" "The clerk was badly worried and drank more freely than was wise. Knowing the courtyard was guarded, he felt safe in going to the door to relieve himself into the gully. As he reached the door he seemed to choke and we saw him fall down just where you see him how. His throat was torn and he drowned in his own blood." "Then how did -- ?" "We don't know. Those in the courtyard saw and heard nothing, nor did those of us who stayed inside. Whatever split his throat has not been found, though we've searched the yard and the room a dozen times. No man among us has recent blood on his weapons, so even treachery is ruled out. I personally think that the Imaiz sent an invisible beast to claw out his throat." "You know I can't accept that," said Ren angrily. "There are no such things as invisible beasts." R en bent down to examine the . wound, but realized, with his Fingers and shoes slipping with blood, that he had neither the knowledge nor the stomach to gain much from the examination. H passed on out into the courtyard, inspected its solid walls and tried to scrutinize the higher surroundings, which were obscured by darkness. Finding no solution to the mystery, he climbed back past the body in the doorway and faced Di Irons. "If you'll permit. Prefect, I'd like Dr. Hardun at the spaceport to perform an examination of the body." "Will that help. Agent Ren? The man is dead -- his throat is gone. What more can be learned from him?" "There must be some evidence of whatever broke his throat. We've many facilities on the battle cruiser. A weapon that caused that damage must have left a trace. If it's there we'll find it." The prefect shrugged. "I see no harm in your trying. If you wish you may come and take the body after daybreak. And you, Catuul, will have an accounting to make with his widow. I shall hold the' IF Pointed Tails responsible for the cremation and all expenses. Nobody's lightly going to disturb the peace while I'm prefect on the three hills. "It will be as you direct, Prefect," said Catuul Gras quietly, though a variety of emotions struggled in his voice. The prefect called his watchmen and departed. Ren turned to Catuul in anger. "The fate of the clerk is unfortunate, but I thought your society could have handled a thing like the death of a member with discretion. How did Di Irons come to learn of it?" "I asked myself the same thing," said Catuul. "The watchmen claim they were called here because of complaints of a disturbance. But there was no disturbance. When the man fell dead we were too amazed to cry out -- and thereafter we were too afraid of attracting attention. Yet the watchmen arrived within minutes of the death. Indeed, they must have started on their way while the man was still alive. Whoever complained to them must have done so with a foreknowledge of the death to come." "Di Irons seems reluctant to agree that the Imaiz must have been responsible. Does he have some sympathy for Dion-daizan?" "I think not. Di Irons concerns himself with the peace of the city. If two sides feud he cares little which side goes under -- as long as the fighting is contained. Knowing this, Dion is perhaps using him to harass us like fools. I swear to you one thing, friend Tito -- if Dion-daizan hopes to buy Zinder back at the auction he'll find her the most expensive purchase he has ever attempted." T he slave market was situated on the eastern slopes of Anharitte, in the bowl through which descended the old road leading to the valley and to Secondhill and T' Ampere. The location was said to have been chosen in the days when slaves were leased to merchant vessels entering the shipping lanes to trade their cargoes along the inland rivers and canals. The slaves were used to handle the cargo exchanges and in theory returned to their owners when the ships once again reached the Aprillo en route to the sea. However, so many slaves were lost through misuse by their temporary masters that the system fell into disrepute and slave-leases were abandoned. It was doubtful if a more astute class of man existed on all the three hills than the average slave auctioneer. Operating usually on a percentage basis against the immutable laws of supply and demand, he knew well how to present his wares to the best advantage and how to drive the shrewdest bargain. This afternoon, however, most of the sale rostrums were unattended by clients, no matter how eloquently the vendors phrased their sales address. A curious order had replaced the normal hubbub of the slave market and almost all the onlookers were facing a solitary platform high on the slope. Watchmen were in Abundance, as if to emphasize the weight of the hand of the law, but the crowd was genuinely good humored and interested in the coming spectacle. The atmosphere was one of anticipation rather than resentment. The occasion was the sale of Zinder's bond -- and speculation had it that the Imaiz himself would be coming to the bidding. Ren had arrived early with Catuul Gras and a more than nominal bodyguard of Pointed Tails. They first approached the auctioneer to establish CatnuPs right to bid on behalf of Magno Vestevaal and to offer proof of the considerable funding on which they could draw if necessity arose. Then, under the jovial eyes of the happy auctioneer, they were offered selected seating in front of the rostrum from which to conduct their business. At a few minutes to the preset hour at which the proceedings should have begun there was still no sign of anyone from the House of Magda. Then the crowd divided abruptly and a man strode through alone -- Diondaizan, the wizard of Anharitte. This was the first time that Tito Ren had ever been really close to the Imaiz and he studied Dion carefully as the latter spoke to the auctioneer in the customary mode of introduction. Ren's analysis did not leave him particularly impressed. Of indeterminate age, though probably nearing fifty years, Dion appeared to eschew all forms of shawmanship or affectation.Qad in a simple white gown, without apparent weapons, Dion's face was neither distinguished nor particularly memorable. Only the movement of his hands indicated quiet confidence and competence that warned the agent to be wary. Whether or not the man was a Terran was not discernible from his  unexceptional appearance, but he was obviously skilled in the control both of himself and others. And from the respect with which he was treated it was obvious that he was nearly a god in the eyes of Anharitte. The auctioneer held up his hands for attention, His prologue was IF treated to a quantity of good-natured banter from the onlooking assembly, but this died when Zinder herself was brought out. Ren was stunned. He had seen the work of beauticians on seven prime worlds, but never in all his experience had he seen such exquisite presentation of the female form as Zinder managed on her way to the rostrum. The audience of perhaps a thousand held its breath as she walked on stage in burnished radiance. Only Dio;i himself seemed unimpressed. Even the auctioneer became speechless. Though he had issued instructions that Zinder be readied for the market, he had not anticipated the skill in the hands of several inhabitants of Magda whose task it had somehow become. He started to make his customary appeal to would-be purchasers, but seemed to becoitie awed by the wonder #f it all. Evidently lost for words, he Tinally paid her the ultimate tribute -- he kneeled and kissed her hand. A cheer rose from the assembly. to his feet. "I bid you five barr for the bond," he said. So low a price was a calculated insult. The audience tensed with anticipation. It was going to be an evening to remember. Raised to the second power," said Dion-daizan unhurriedly. "Six barr to the second power," said Catuul Gras. He was playing his hand narrowly. "To the third power," said Diondaizan. "Seven to the third power," Catuul said. Ren, whose mathematical training probably transcended that of any in the Avatching public, lapsed into mental calculation of the true value of the bids, unsettled by the way in which the Imaiz each time multiplied the value of the bid by raising the index. It was absolutely certain that at some point the Imaiz was going to approach a figure he could not possibly afford, and at that point Catull must withdraw. He was relieved to note that, as the values rose, the scribe became more punctilious about, obtaining confirmation before proceeding. Nevertheless, Ren continued disconcerted by the actions of the Imaiz, who seemed determined to drive the price into truly astronomical figures. It said much for the mental constitution of the auctioneer that he was able to continue functioning as evenly as he did in the face of the rapidly mounting values. He was sweating profusely and developed a marked tremor of the limbs when his due commission on the sale would have made him rich beyond all his dreams. Still the contest continued. Ren was now using a pocket calculator to bring out the absolute values of the bids in terms of the galactic credits. The Imaiz used no calculating aids, but Ren had the feeling that Dion-daizan was nevertheless completely aware of the real value of the figures with which they were playing. Only Catuul seemed out of his depth and repeatedly looked at Ren for confirmation that he was intended to continue. "Ten barrs raised to the sixth power, " said Catuul uneasily. This was more money than he had ever heard of. "Ten to the seventh power." Dion-daizan showed slight signs of agitation although Ren suspected the wizard was well within his ample budget. "Eleven to the seventh." The Imaiz faltered and a gasp of anticipation ran through the watching crowd. Ren felt a savage elation at the thought of having placed the Imaiz on public trial. It was a beautiful piece of harassnient. "Eleven barrs to the eighth power," said the Imaiz finally. Somebody in the crowd with some appreciation of the amount involved gave him a round of applause. Ren signaled for Catuul to continue. "Twelve to the eighth," said Catuul grimly. The Imaiz stopped and scanned the crowd, as if trying to estimate the cost of losing face. Then he shrugged resignedly and turned again to the auctioneer. Ren still judged Dion-daizan to be within the limits of his purse, but the wizard was obviously struggling with considerations that evidently weighed as heavily with him as the regainings of Zinder. "Twelve to the ninth," said the master of Magda in a voice that could scarcely heard. Catuul Gras stole a warning look at Ren, but the agent had a reasonable idea of the Imaiz s true flnancial potential, based on the yearly spaceport dues paid to the House of Magda. He knew it was possible to squeeze the Imaiz even drier. "Thirteen to the ninth," said Catuul. "Thirteen to the tenth," said the Imaiz, his voice suddenly sharp with a new resolve. "What's the old fox up to?" asked Catuul anxiously. "Has he really got that much money?" "I think he has. But he's beIF coming uncomfortable. I think just once more must take him to the limit." "Fourteen to the tenth," said Catuul. The auctioneer had long since ceased to comprehend the magnitude of the figures being used and cared only that each bid was higher than the last. On a commission of even one per cent his family would be rich for generations. Dion-daizan sat, his face suddenly bland. The auctioneer looked at him questioningly. "Dion -- don't you wish to raise?" "Of course not." The Imaiz's faice was alive with humor, revealing a richness of personality he had hitherto concealed. "Believe me, it's not through lack of finance, but in observance of a principle." "Prmciple?" The auctioneer was lost. "Yes," said Dion-daizan happily. "Anyone who would bid fourteen to the tenth power barrs for Zinder musit Jiave achieved a true appreciation of her worth. Far be it for me to detr such enlightenment. It's not every day that my progressive policies gain such eminent recognition. Nor is it often in Anharitte that the real worth of a human being is so openly acknowledged. May others soon become as wise as Director Vestevaal." R en watched with mounting  horror as the hammer fell. The auctioneer's voice boomed above the murmur of the crowd. "I hereby declare the slave Zinder to be sold to the Society of Pointed Tails acting on behalf of its client. Director Magno Vestevaal. The agreed price is fourteen barrs raised to the tenth power -- a completely unprecedented sum for any slave at any time in history and a truly magnificent tribute to the slave-training policy of the House of Magda." "Damn!" Ren, ashen of face, staggered to his feet. It was too late to rescind the bid -- the transaction was already complete. He turned appealingly to Catuul Gras. "What the hell's Dion up to?" "Teaching the director a lesson, I should think," said Catuul grimly. "Well he's certainly made his point -- and at our expense. Let's face it, Tito. He's beaten us at our own game." "I don't believe it," said Ren, consumed by his own anger. "A man like Dion isn't going to let Zinder go." Zinder, from the rostrum, had displayed a keen interest in the proceedings. Far from seeming betrayed by Dion-daizan's action, she appeared elated. She saluted her late master who, in turn, approached her to kiss her hand. Then Dion-daizan turned to the crowd and raised his hands in an expansive gesture of triumph. The ensuing cheer was probably the loudest oar of acclamation from human throats that Roget had ever known. The auctioneer took Zinder's halter and led her, a symbol of apparent meekness, to Catuul Gras. The latter took the plaited rope as though it were likely to grow hot and looked somewhat stupidly at Ren. "The sale price is on guarantee from the Galactic Bank," said the auctioneer. "The contract settlement is now between the purchaser and the city administration. Therefore I have no need to detain you, except to remind you of the convention that the title of the bond 'must be registered at the prefecture by within seven hours or the money is forfeit and the bond is returned to the city administration." "I understand," said Catuul Gras. "I assure you the bond will be duly registered within the time." Ren said nothing, not being able to trust himself to speak. Having been tricked into authorizing such an astronomical sum on the acquisition of a single female slave, he knew that the blackest hour of his career was upon him. An error in his judgment had caused this embarrassment to happen. He had been certain above all things that the Imaiz would not allow Zinder to be bought over his head. Now the wizard was standing both pleased and apparently unworried as Zinder was led away by the hands of his sworn enemies. Ren was still not convinced that the Imaiz would allow it to happen, but failed to see how he could, prevent it -- unless by some ambush or deception Dion managed to stop the bond's being registered in time. Catuul's mind was apparently working along the same lines. He signaled members of his clan out from the crowd and ' sent them ahead to see that the roads Zinder and her new owners had to travel were free from possible trouble. With practiced inconspicuousness the little group melted away. "I think," said Catuul, "that we had best pick up the director and get the registration over as soon as possible. That is -- " he glanced uneasily at the radiant Zinder -- "assuming that you wish to go through with it." "For that sort of money," said Ren ruefully, "the deal had better be legally complete. Though the devil knows how it's going to look on the account books." Despite the immensity of his blunder the humor of the situation overwhelmed him and he started to chuckle spasmodically at his own discomfort. IF T he assembled crowd was beginning to disperse with much laughter and amused speculation. Not a few ame to have a closer look at Zinder wearing the customary bondage halter. For a moment Ren felt angered by what he regarded as morbid curiosity. But when he saw the proud and dominant strength in Zinder's face he realized that on the end of the halter was a powerful social catalyst. What he was parading through the streets was the anachronistic shame of Anharitte's slave trade. He and the Pointed Tails were being used to underscore the unfairness and absurdity of the system. While he was agent for the titular master, it was obviously the slave who held command of the situation and the hearts of the onlookers. Thinking deeply in this vein, Ren walked ahead. Catuul followed, leading Zinder on the halter as if she were any common beast. Four of the Pointed Tails armsmen acted as a guard detail and also carried the torches, which were just needing to be lit as the purple dusk closed down. Ren found the journey acutely embarrassing. His civilized instincts prompted him to make conversation with Zinder, whose intellectual talents were probably more than equal to his own. But the halter she wore about her neck made such an action seem incongruous and he could think of no topic of conversation that could span the dual standards that had been thrust upon him. He therefore stalked ahead of the group, growing increasingly angry at his own inability to resolve the conflict within himself. He sensed in the situation the ingenuity of the Imaiz in attacking the slave problem in this particular way and his respect for the wizard increased considerably. The Imaiz was forming a schism not only in society but also deep in the psyches of individual participants -- such as himself. It was a dangerous and powerful game, and Ren knew that if Dion-daizan were not stopped he would ultimately win the bajtle. Magno Vestevaal was waiting in Ren's chambers. The director had been drinking liberally, presumably celebrating a victory that had not been won. Ren roused him from his chair, knowing the worst had best be told without delay. "We have to go immediately to the prefecture to register the bond." "Register?" Vestevaal's eyes refocused on Ren in an instant. "What the hell do you mean?" "I mean that the Imaiz played with us as he might with fools. You now own Zinder." "Own Zinder?" Vestevaal appeared to sober himself by a tremendous effort of wUl. "I see! And how much did this -- ah -- acquisition cost us, Tito?" "Fourteen barrs to the tenth power," said Ren, being deliberately obtuse to soften the shock. "What in hell is that in terms of money?" Ren bent over his office calculator and converted the figures first to duodecimal galactic credits and then to the Terran ten-based notation which the director handled more happily. Vestevaal watched him steadily, sensing in Ren's actions a cerin reticence that foretold of trouble. "WeU?" Ren had finished the calculations and was examining the printout, wondering how to present it in the best light. "You'd better sit down again," he said. "Would you believe about dollars?" For a moment the director appeared in danger of suffering a seizure. At last he swore. "You could buy two battle cruisers for less. Tito -- have you any idea how I'm going to explain that sort of expenditure to the Freetrade Council? What are you trying to do -- ruin me?" "No, but I think it's a reasonable certainty that the Imaiz is. He promised to teach you a lesson. I guess this is it. But I still think we've hit him where it hurts. After all, we've got Zinder." "Where is she?" asked Vestevaal. The color was slowly coming back into his cheeks. "Do you have her?" "She's outside with Catuul and the guard." "Then fetch her in -- fetch her in! Where's your hospitality, Tito? It's not every day you get the chance to entertain somebody who's worth more than all your Company executives rolled into one. Ren called for Zinder. Unlike Ren, Magno Vestevaal was in no doubt as to how she should be treated. He borrowed Ren's sword to cut the halter from her neck, then handed her into a chair as though she were a queen. She took the incident completely unabashed. Already she seemed to have established with Vestevaal a degree of rapport that reached to depths Ren could not envision. She accepted wine and fell into a quiet conversation with the director until Ren was forced to interrupt, fearing that if they further delayed they would become overdue for registering her bond. The remainder of the journey to the prefecture was in marked contrast with that from the slave market. Magno Vestevaal led the way, engaged in earnest conIF versation with the slave girl on his arm, while Ren and Catuul followed disconsolately at their heels. The four armsmen had dispersed themselves fore and aft of the group, swords drawn and ready for trouble, since Catuul still feared an ambush or an interference designed to delay the Registration of the bond. The director, however, ridiculed the idea of potential trouble and refused even to remain consistently within the shield of guards. He was right -- inasmuch as they arrived at the grim portals of the prefecture without any sign of unwanted intervention. T he prefecture was bustling with people. Watchmen were returning or departing on duty -- clerks were fetching and carrying their massive volumes and a small mob around the slave registry was presumably waiting to see the registration of Zinder. Ren was not surprised to sec Barii, the Imaizs slave-caste steward in the group -- and Dion-daizan himself. Everyone turned to watch as the director and his costly prize came across the threshold. Dion-daizan made a bow of courtesy to Magno Vestevaal, which the latter good-humoredly returned. The director seemed in remarkably good spirits, having regained his equilibrium completely after his shock of learning of Ren's transaction. His reaction to Dion-daizan was an acknowledgment of the excellence of his adversary. Dion's respect was no less evident. Both men turned to regard Zinder, who stood peacock-proud watching the register clerk intently as he painstakingly wrote the details of her bondage on a new page of his mammoth book. Di Irons came out of his office and took charge of the proceedings. His manner suggested that it was important for the peace of the city that the registration went smoothly. The prefect inspected the entry carefully, held it up for Dion-diazan to examine, then called for the mark of the auctioneer to authenticate the sale. Catuul went suddenly tense. He had momentarily lost sight of Barii, but finally located him standing behind the Imaiz, who had retired discreetly to the rear. Like Ren, the If you change your address, please mail notification to: Galaxy PuHillmant Deft. # SMatogua Avenue Farmingdale, New York # Allow # to # weeks for your notification to take effect. scribe had the gravest doubts that the Imaiz would permit the registration to be completed, but it was difFicult to see how he could now prevent its finalization. Everyone in the room felt the tension rise and additional watchmen came out from some dark antechamber to stand silent and ready for trouble. After the auctioneer had made his mark several statutory witnesses followed -- Mallow Rade came to sign on behalf of the Pointed Tails. It was then Vestevaal's turn to sign as the ultimate purchaser. Such a succession of names was not usually required, but Di Irons was taking no chances. Necessity demanded that this was one registration that could never be disputed. Vestevaal was aware that he could be altering the course of history on Roget as he took out his pen. He was buying a legend for hard cash, and the implication of the completed deal was that even enlightenment had its price. This was not, he reflected ruefully, the first time nor w.as .Roget the first world on which that lesson had been learned. As he turned from the book he could not resist flashing a look of triumph in the direction of Dion-daizan. In return he recefved a polite smile, which might have signified resignation -- but probably did not. The director turned and held out his hand, indicating that Zinder should walk before him. Then a gasp of amazement from the onlookers diverted his attention back to the register. To his astonishment he saw the lines of ink begin to smoke and spread out, charring the surrounding paper. Some potent chemical reaction caused a glow that quickly became a flame that ran up the angled page -- and though Vestevaal seized another volume and beat upon the burning book, he succeeded only in completely breaking up the fragile ash, which further disintegrated of its own volition. xX Imaiz, then back to Di Irons, wondering hbw the situation was going to be resolved. The prefect, a cloud of smoke still about his startled head, growled in a voice like thunder and savagely pulled the book toward him as he brushed away the burned edges. "Dion-daizan -- I take it this is some work of yours." "Mine?" The Imaiz sounded shocked. "There are ten good people between myself and the book -- and have been all evening. Likewise, my servant Barii has not approached the proceedings. I could have had no more to do with the loss of the entry than -- say -- #  IF Agent Ren had with the loss of the title I once owned." "You make a good point," said Di Irons, glancing sourly at Ren, who had come forward to examine the burned page of the register. "The question is, what's to be done now?" "Who claims the title to Zinder?" asked the Imaiz, His voice, though soft, carried perfectly. "I do, of course," said Vestevaal. "Then I contest your title to the bond. I submit that at this moment you can no more prove your ownership than could I a short while after Zinder was taken from me." "There must have been a thousand witnesses to my purchase tonight." Vestevaal was adamant. "I demand that the registration begin anew." "You have a thousand witnesses, but all Anharitte knew for ten years that Zinder belonged to me. Whose evidence is the stronger?" "Stop this!" thundered Di Irons. "Dion, I shall have many words to say to you concerning your conduct this night. And you. Director, and your puppet Ren, are beginning to tire my patience. In the circumstances -- I can see that the Imaiz has a valid point. Your situation is no different from his a little while ago. If justice is to be done I think the case should be treated in the same way." "What docs that mean?" asked Vestevaal sharply. "If you wish. Director,, your society can contest my decision in tbe supreme court at Gaillen. I advise you now that it would be a waste of time to do so, with the Imaiz so closely attentive to his own claims. But my own ruling is this: its the considered opinion of the prefecture that the bondship of Zinder still has no clear tenure. Under the law it is therefore my duty to impound the slave girl in question and return her to the market for public auction. I have no more to say on the subject." "But I have," said Vestevaal angrily. "I've paid a great sum of money for that girl. Do I not get that back?" "What? You squeal because your agents forced a bad bargain?" Di Irons was cuttingly acid. "Come now! As a merchant you're fully aware that all purchases in Anharitte are on the basis of caveat emptor -- let the purchaser beware. Ren was warned by myself most specifically not to proceed with the gambit. And I'm sure your reputation for trade on this planet would be little helped by your continuing such a claim. Especially -- " he leaned forward heavily -- "since the money was provided by the Freetrade Council for the express purpose of causing civil mischief in Anharitte. Do you care to take that matter to court, Director? I doubt the planetary government would view the proceedings with much favor." Vestevaal appeared on the verge of making a critically harsh reply. Then he looked at Zinder. She met his gaze with level inquiry, as if searching for something she expected to find in him. Vestevaal reacted with sudden resolutions -- a smile of tired humor lit his face. "My apologies. Prefect. I spoke out of turn. Of course I respect your ruling on both counts. Never let it be said that Magno Vestevaal doesn't know how to accept defeat with dignity." Vestevaal turned to Zinder and kissed her hand, then bowed to Dion-daizan. He turned to Ren and Catuul Gras and indicated that they all should leave. "Well, Tito -- how's that for being outclassed?" Vestevaal's voice held a note of genuine appreciation. "I've seen some rank skulduggery among the Freetraders, but believe me, Diondaizan makes the rest of them look like amateurs. Damn it -- I'd love to see him on the council!" "Are we going to take the debt for Zinder without fighting?" asked Ren. "We have no alternative. We dare nqt go to court lest we sour the attitude of the planetary government toward Freetrade. You know how parochial these hickworld governments can be." "This makes me wonder if there's a collusion between the Imaiz and the prefect." "I don't think so. Di Irons is the straightest man I've ever come across. But he's trying to use unsophisticated laws to control a situation with which even sophisticated laws would find it difficult to cope. So he compensates by applying a good measure of rough horse-sense. And why shouldn't he? It's just that sort of approach that keeps Anharitte the place it is. And at least he's helped to cut our losses." "I don't follow that." Vestevaal laughed heartily and clapped Ren on the back. "My dear Tito, you're too damn sober. Don't you realize that without Zinder we've one less mouth to feed and back to clothe. And there's a further problem you haven't even thought of. Suppose we had retained her -- what the hell would we have found to do with her?" The following day Zinder was again put up for sale. The Imaiz took up the bidding and this time nobody opposed him. The hammer fell at the price of one bar. And this was perhaps the final irony. IF He dared to worship deities who did not dare to let him live! The discovery of contemporary gods on other planets occasioned a concerted inquiry into Earth s past that threw new light on the 'legendary gods of old. The Greek and the Asgard pantheons acquired new dimensions and even history at last admitted that, ages ago, Zeus and company had dwelled upon the slopes of Mount Olympus -- and that in times of old, Odin had really sat on the high-seat in Hlidskjalf The provenance of the gods was another matter. The dead ones could not talk and the living ones could be contacted otUy through their worshipers who, quite understandably, dared not risk offending them by voicing impious questions. The present consensus is that they are the scattered remnants of a oncegreat galactic race whose heyday predates the dawn of man. Such an opinion would seem to impugn their divinity. That it does not merely points up the psychological need of the average mortal to stand in awe of beings ostensibly nobler than himself, whether they be true gods, savior-kings or Kennedys, -- Zyre: What is a God?, pp. #-# stallations on Northstar #, Recoh Officer Hale could not find them. True, no one had said definitely that there were -- only that there might be. But it was Hale's job to eliminate mightbe's, which explains his presence in the skies of the polestar's nineteenth planet. But although he found no enemy installations, he found something else: four cities. They stood on the banks of an eccentric river that snaked its way across a verdant plain dominated by a shining mountain -- and all of them were dead. No time limit had been imposed on Hale's Northstar # mission and he certainly was in no hurry to get back to the Earth-Niefi War. So he decided to find out what kind of cities they were, or rather, what kind of cities they had been. He chose the one nearest the mountain (for some reason the mountain fascinated him) and brought his reconcraft down in the middle of its central square. He opened the locks and climbed down to the ground. Stone edifices, some still intact, others with fallen walls and collapsed roofs, stared at him in the midmorning sunlight. Both their size and design indicated they had been built by men like himself. He took a deep breath of the unpurified air, smelled the greenness of trees and grass and the dust of desuetude. He was suddenly glad he had come. He had memorized the city's conformation during his descent and knew that the square was on the crest of a hill. The buildings beyond had been built upon the hillside and stood in a wid band around the base. On the east the city was borIF dered by the river, on the south by a forest and on the west by a park or graveyard. To the north the ruins gradually gave way to grassy lowlands, which once upon a time, no doubt, had known the bite of plowshares. The architecture of the buildings forming the square had a Hellenic flavor. The arch was nowhere in evidence, and columns and entablatures prevailed. One of the buildings brought the Parthenon to mind; although the resemblance was superficial at best. A huge statue stood before the columned entrance. Perhaps it was the way the morning sunlight struck it, turning it to gold, that made Hale's interest leap -- perhaps it was the haughty aspect of the lofty head. In either case, he walked across the square and stood before it. It was the statue of a goddess. Unlike the columns, which were limestone, she had been sculptured of granite. A few faded streaks of dye informed him that her hair was black. It fell to her shoulders, disciplined only by a band worn around her forehead. Breast plates, metallic skirt and thonged sandals completed her attire. He looked up at this comely granite girl, this stone goddess of the long legs, the bursting breasts, the Grecian arms and shoulders. Her face made him think of Byron and Keats. It expressed what they had been trying to say. The quick sweep of nose from high wide forehead to upper lip spoke of strength -- the sensuous yet noble mouth somehow suggested a knowledge of the weakness of men. The girlish chin was godly. Once, no doubt, painted pupils had lent life to her sightless eyes. Time had taken it aay. He brought his own eyes down to the base of the pedestal on which she stood. There was writing there, etched meticulously into the stone. Picture writing. There was a word that looked like a plow, one that looked like a sword. One that looked like a snake probably symbolized the river. There was a word that looked like a tree, three that looked like stars. There was one that suggested the city -- At length he came to her name: Entering the temple -- for such it  proved to be -- he found that with the exception of one feature it was devoted entirely to her. The exception stood just within the entrance -- a great granite statue of Herculean symmetry and grace whose stern countenance, albeit beardless, suggested Zeus. Unquestionably it represented the major deity. Nevertheless, this was not his temple -- it was Statues of her were everywhere -- statues, statuettes and busts. Some were carved of limestone, some of granite -- others . were cast in bronze. The central floor space was given over to two parallel rows of stone inches, an aisle running down between them to a granite altar flanked by two bronze braziers black with age. In a number of places the roof had fallen in and Hale had to pick his way around piles of fallen masonry to reach the altar. He halted before it. A life-size statue of stood just behind it. This one had eyes and wore a dress. The dress half-covered the full breasts and fell but little lower than the hips. The eyes were represented by ice-blue chips of glass. He found them disconcerting. As he stood staring into their cold and glittering depths the conviction overcame him that he himself was being observed. Not from within the temple or even from the adjacent buildings -- but from afar. He tried to rid himself of the feeling, but it would not go away. Before leaving the temple, he looked once more at the towering statue just within the entrance. This time, he examined the pedestal. It, too, was covered with ideographs. At length he found the one that stood for the deity's name: down the hillside to the lower city. Here the broken buildings were fewer, while partly filled-in depressions marked the cellars of wooden dwellings that had long ago either fallen or burned to the ground. Clearly this was the section of the poor. He felt more at home here than on the hill. The conviction that he was being observed intensified, but the feeling now was of being watched from nearby rather than from afar. It was possible, he supposed, that some of the buildings were inhabited. Both the reconcraft's polimeter and its sentience detector were reliable instruments -- but the former responded only to reasonably large groups of structures, while the latter could not detect the presence of intelligent life forms except in reasonably large groups (specifically, the minimum number of structures and the minimum amount of personnel the Niefi would need to establish an effective military installation). Nevertheless, Hale found it hard to believe that anyone abided in the city. It did not IF matter in any case: the Niefi could be discounted altogether (they abhorred human cities), and the high-intensity incandescer strapped to Hale's right wrist would be more than a match for anything a bronzeage semi-savage might throw or thrust at him. He spent the rest of the day poking among the ruins. They fascinated him. He found potteryshards, blackened utensils and bones. Most of the bones seemed to be those of women and children, but as a layman he could not, of course, be certain. Once he caught a blur of movement at the edge of his vision, but although he turned his head quickly he saw nothing. He skipped lunch. For supper he ate a can of synthichicken and half a loaf of canned bread and drank a thermopint of ale. The ale made him drowsy and he partially dozed afterward as he sat in the reconcraft lock, watching the blue mists of evening creep down from the plain. He decided to stay the night and perhaps the morrow too. Why not? The war could get on without him for another day. From what he had learned thus far he felt sure the ruins were remnants of a once-prosperous and powerful city-state on the order of Athens or Lacedaemon. Perhaps, years ago, the four cities had engaged in an internecine "Peloponnesian War" that had left but few survivors. Among the stars man had already found a hundred histories of himself -- here, perhaps, was another. night. Hale closed the locks and climbed up into the little cabin in the reconcraft's nose. He undressed, turned out the light and lay down on his bunk. On the opposite bulkhead an oval porthole looked out upon the crumbling cornices of the higher edifices. He lay helpless in the dark, waiting for Gwendolyn to come into his mind. He and she had met years earlier at a posh beach resort, where he had been employed as a swimming instructor. All summer long they had been lovers and after she had returned to her home in Greater Philadelphia he had traveled more than five hundred miles to pay her a surprise visit. The season had #een late September, hazy-hot, and he had perspired as he walked up the wide shaded walk to the patio-portico that fronted the rambling neorenaissance house. In the columned coolness tall young men and tall young women had lolled, tall cool glasses in their hands. He remembered a flurry of movement, a blur of color as he had come into sight from the shade. A door had opened and slammed shut. He had wanted to turn around and go back, but had been unable. He had had to keep walking until he had come to the marble steps and asked the question whose false answer still burned in his mind. Gwen? One of the tall young men had answered, ice cubes tinkling as he talked. Oh, she got suddenly called away. Away, away, away... Tonight as on other nights he waited and waited, but she did not come and at last he closed his eyes. He could see the ruins. They drifted past his inner vision like gray sheep. He counted them and presently he slept. I, he lay in the darkness searching his mind for the reason sleep had fled. He could not Find it. At last he got up, stepped over to the porthole and looked through the thick glass down into the square. All three of Northstar #'s moons were in the sky. The flagstones were silver in , the multimoonlight and the broken buildings stood like argent ghosts. Shadows played along their feet, making evanescent patterns in the night. At first he thought his mind was projecting an image of Gwen, but he knew instantly that the girl standing in the square was not -- could not be -- she. This was someone else altogether, yet someone he was sure he knew. He saw first of all the blazing blackness of her hair and then he saw the nightflower of her face. Gradually her body took shape in the multiple light -- he saw the shining hillocks of her breasts, the silver pillars of her legs, the pale shadow of her pubic hair. The pillars quivered in the multi-moonlight, subtly faded away. When he searched the shadows for her face it 'was no more -- her black hair blended #)ack into the night. And the square slept in the multi-moonlight, dreamed in the multi-moonlight and all was as it had been before. He stepped back across the little room and dropped down again on his bunk. He lay with his hands clasped behind his head, thinking. Whoever had been in the square was not a ghost. Ghosts did not haunt dead poleis. But sometimes tutelary gods did. T iHE next morning Hale had a look at the building before which his nocturnal visitor .had stood. It told him nothing. The day was golden, the air sparkling with particles of dispersed dew. Beyond the ruins, treetops twinkled in a sporadic morning wind. After a light breakfast, he went back down into the lower city and resumed his unofficial investigation of the ruins. He found more pottery shards. IF more blackened utensils and more bones. He also found a second Temple of  It stood on the southern outskirts, at the feet of the forest that climbed the valley's slope to the plain. It was larger than its sister on the hill and this, together with its location, led him to conclude it had been built expressly for the poor. Going inside, he found it like its sister both within and without. There were more benches and the altar at the end of the aisle was larger. But the altar statue was the same. Down front was a girl, sitting on one of the benches. A girl clad in bronze armor, with a forehead band encircling her black hair. Hale was not surprised. He had never seen a goddess, but he knew he was seeing one now. He also knew, from history, that Athena Polias had haunted ancient Athens long after her true worshipers had turned to dust. If Athena Polias had haunted her dead polis, why couldn't haunt hers? H e walked down the aisle, through slanted columns of sunlight, around piles of fallen stone. She did not turn her head. When he reached the bench she was sitting on he sat down beside her, not because he dared to, but because he didn't know what else to do. She faced him and he saw the quick sweep of nose from high wide forehead to upper lip and the godlike girlish chin. Her eyes surprised him. He had expected to find ice in them -- instead he found the summer skies of Earth. In contrast her hair made him think of the blackness of winter forests -- its disarray of the wind on a winter's night. She said, Vve been waiting for you since dawn. She had spoken into his mind. He found he could speak into hers. You watched me all day yesterday. Why didn't you reveal yourself to me then? I revealed myself to you last night. Yes, he said, but not as you are now. Why did you wait so long? Your mind has a wall around it, like mine,  could not see inside. Can you see inside it now? Only a little -- not enough to tell me where you really came from or who you really are. But I decided to contact you anyway, Vm glad, he said. I've a lot of questions to ask. About you and about your city-state. There were three other poleis like it, as you no doubt know. Many years ago they grew envious of one another and engaged in a long and disastrous war. The final battle was fought upon the plain. The women fought beside the men -- those who had not been murdered along with their children in successive rapes of the four cities.  Were there no survivors? A few. They became shepherds and live far away beyond the mountain and the' plain. They blame the cities for their misfortune -- they regard them as places of evil and will not live in them any more. But as a goddess -- surely you could have ended suih a war. decreed that the gods were not to interfere, h your father? In a way he is, she said. He and his mate world. I have three brothers and three sisters. Afy three sisters were the guardian goddesses of the other city-states. There are other pantheons but they are inferior to ours.  Where do you live? Hale asked. We live high upon the mountain that looks down upon the plain. I thought you knew. I guessed. Hale said, but I didnt know.  saw you from the mountain when you arrived, stood up. Her armor was not new, he noticed. In places it had worn thin.  must go now. One of the thongs of her sandals was broken. He kneeled and knotted the ends together, then stood up beside her. Please dont go yet.  must, ril come back tomorrow -- perhts tonight. Would you like to see the battlefield? Til take you there. You seem inordinately interested in bones and it's not far from here. Take me there now. I cant. Til take you there tomorrow. Perhaps tonight. v She stepped sideways, slipped from sight. He stared at where she had stood. Oddly, her absence brought home to him more forcibly than had her presence the fact that she was a goddess, and momentarily he was overcome by awe. For a while he founckit difficult to believe that he had not dreamed the meetingsBut in the end he knew that it had been real and that he would see her again. H e skipped his midday meal again and went on a tour of the river bank. The Earth-Niefi War seemed to recede with every step he took. It had less reality for him now than the one that had talcen place here on Northstar # -- how many years ago? He felt sus; pended between present and past. Stone wharves protruded into the river. He walked out on one of them, sat down in the sunlight and IF let his legs hang over the water. The current was sluggish, almost imperceptible, and the river, wide at this point, brought to his mind a blue lake. Once the simile became fixed in his mind it was inevitable that he should see the raft. Even so, he found it odd that Gwendolyn should enter his reverie when she was so far backstage from the proscenium of his thoughts. The raft was anchored in the middle of the lake. There were two people on it. Beyond their golden glistening bodies a distant frieze of summer homes showed against a blue terrestrail sky. Hale looked but little different then from how he was now. Tall and spare, almost beautiful in his virile handsomeness. Gwen was a flaming nymph in the sunlight. When they went out together he always had trouble wearing clothes. He worked hard at it and achieved a degree of aptitude -- but the poor look well dressed only to the penniless. and he knew that in her eyes he was a storewindow mannikin on . parade. On the raft it was different. Nearly naked in the sun he was her peer and she accepted him as such. More important -- he accepted himself as such. She had said she loved him as they walked one moonlit night along the shore, the waves fainting at their feet. Her words had been more than a declaration of love -- they had been an invitation. He had. been accustomed to such invitations,'#ut he had found this one disconcerting. Later, in the dark boathouse, he had been . more disconcerted yet -- and hurt as well -- to find he was not the Tirst and possibly not even the second or the third. But his disenchantment had not lasted and by the end of the summer he had been more deeply in love with her than he had been before. Maturely in love... had been the way he had expressed it to himself. What he had felt toward her before had been mere boyish infatuation. It wasn't finding out that the rich were like everybody else that wrecked poor-boy lover -- it was ilAding out that the truth had no effect upon his fascination. T he raft went away and the river came back, and a flock of heronlike birds rose from the rs and flapped across the stream to the opposite bank where the frieze of summer homes had been. Hale liked the river better, found Northstar's warmth more comforting than Sol's. Perhaps here was where he belonged. ternoon wandering over the grassy lowlands and returned to the reconcraft at dusk. He had no appetite, but he forced himself to eat. Then he walked through the ruins to the lower-city temple of . The temple was empty. He walked down the aisle and sat on the bench where they had met. As he sat there in the silence the first moon climbed into the sky and sent her silver footprints down the aisle, then withdrew them to shine down through the crevices in the roof. The second moon arose and she too made obeisance at the altar before looking down from above. He knew that it was growing late, remembered that had said "perhaps" she might be there. But he went on sitting in the silver silence, hoping. She did not come. He stood up at last, dumb with disappointment, and walked out into the night. The third moon was climbing up the star-runged ladder of the east and the light of night was as the light of day. He wandered among the ruins. Passing a megalithic platform, he pictured a politician standing on it, making promises to the poor. Presently he came to a garden, passed through its gate and sat down in the multi-moonlight. A little distance away a waterless fountain stood like a silver centerpiece. Weeds grew riotously around his feet. Suddenly he heard her step and saw her just beyond the garden wall. She came through the garden gate, her armor blazing, her black hair gleaming in the night. You werent in the temple, she said. Then I saw you sitting here. He said, I waited for you for hours. I thought you werent coming. She said, Til take you to the battlefield. He walked with her through the ruins and they climbed the forested slope to the plain. The walked over the plain in the multi-moonlight, the shining mountain rising on their right. Around them herds of wild livestock slept. Ululations sounded from far away. They circumvented a quarry that had become an artesian lake and came at last to a huge circular depression bordered by sprucelike trees. She halted just beyond the fringe of trees and he halted beside her. He looked into her summersky eyes, silvery now -- at the wild blackness of her hair. A trembling began in his hands. He said. Let me count the ways... She looked back at him, puzzled. The wall around your mind has grown higher. What is it you do not wish me to see? Nothing, he said. Is this the battlefield? Yes. The Cwm of the Dead. He saw the bones. They began at his feet, spread outward, littering the entire basin. Interspersed IF among them were battered shields, broken swords, bits and pieces of armor -- all black with age. Oddly, he was reminded of the utensils he had dug up. Surely the gods could have averted such a tragedy. No, ifC said. We could not avert it because we were gods. The people of my polls prayed to me to bring them victory, while the people of my sisters poleis prayed to them to bring them victory. Thustfp decreed as he did. But he could have stopped it. Only at the expense of creating dissension among the gods and this he would not do. Thus he decreed as he did, fully aware of the consequences. Since the war we have become gods without worshipers. The survivors have turned their backs on us and have taken to worshiping savior kings. We no longer know what it is like to be adored. I no longer know what it is like. I adore you. Hale said. She turned toward him. Yes, but in a different way. She stepped closer to him, her gaze warm upon his face. He found her hand in his. It was like the moonlight, light, cool and soft -- and somehow the three qualities passed from her palm through his and became commingled with his blood, apotheosizing him. He found himself kissing her in the multi-moonlight. the women he had known before her transmuting to glass beads on a cheap necklace in his mind, Gwen the gaudiest zircon of them all. And yet it was he who pulled away. We have no right to make love here, he said. Not in the Cwm of the Dead. In the beginning Love met Death in the dark woods of the world and found him to be her twin. I have no right to make love to you in any case. Why? He stared at her. Because -- He saw that she had turned and was pointing across the battlefield. We are about to be attacked. Look. There were five of them. Wolves. Not the kind he was familiar with, but enough like them to justify the term. They were loping across the cwm, spreading outward as they came. 's right arm was already extended -- now she extended her fingers and white fire leaped from their tips. The lead wolf became a gout of flame. But the remaining four did not even slow their pace. 's second thunderbolt missed. Hale extended his own right arm. Two tongues of blue from his fingertips and the two foremost wolves disintegrated. incinerated the fourth -- and the fifth, badly singed, retreated into the night. T hey walked back across the plain in the multi-moonlight holding hands, their shoulders touching now and then, the three moons slipping swiftly down the western slope of night. The moment they entered the forest she unclasped her armor and let it fall to the ground. Then she pulled him into a flower-carpeted arbor and drew him down upon her. Not once, she whispered. Not once, but a thousand times... A golden ladder appeared from somewhere and he climbed it high into the sky. There was a bursting in his brain -- the ladder trembled and he fell. He climbed it again, this time even higher into the sky, only to fall once more, white fires burning in his brain. He did not know how many times he climbed and fell. He did not care. Toward morning they made their way down through the forest and halted before the lower-city temple. I must go now, said. He pulled her tightly against him, tried to imprison her with his arms. No, not yet,  may never see you again! Her body trembled, lost substance. In a moment only the ghost of her remained. And then even the ghost was gone, but not before he heard it whisper. You are the first real god I have ever known! He was thunderstruck. H e stood in the fading moonlight, staring at where she had been. You are the first real god I have ever known ,... She had seen him ride down from heaven on a huge and shining "steed" such as she had never dreamed of. She had seen him unleash "thunderbolts" more powerful than her own. She, who had probably entered hundreds of unsophisticated mortal minds, had encountered a wall when she tried to enter his. She had mistaken him for a god from the beginning. A god, perhaps, from one of the other pantheons. The rosy-fingered dawn had drawn a pink line along the eastern horizon. Hale walked slowly back to the reconcraft, climbed into the control room and sat down. In a way, he was a god. gods like him. But they did not dwell on Northstar # and never would. The first golden fingers of the sun reached through the locks and extended themselves toward his feet. He had always thought his feet were made of clay. He saw now that they were not. He stood up. His shoulders seemed to brush the sky. The fading stars hovered inches from his head. IF The intra-fleet communicator came to life. "Fleet Com to Recon Two. Acknowledge, RC Hale." Hale looked down from his eminence at the picayune reminder of his past. "Repeat: FleetCom to Recon Two. Acknowledge, RC Hale. If unable to acknowledge, then return FleetCom immediately." "I'm not going back," Hale said. "What has gone wrong. Recon Officer Hale? Repeat: What has gone wrong?" "I'm a god," Hale said. "I'm agoing to live among my own kind." He got a pipe wrench out of the tool cabinet and smashed the communicator's face. He closed the locks ahd raised the reconcraft high above the dead city. They wouldn't come looking for him -- he wasn't that important. But even if they did they would never find him. He pointed Pegasus toward the mountain. The mountain came to meet him and high up on its shining slopes he saw the marble columns of the hall of the gods. He guided Pegasus down from the sky, brought her to rest on the slope below and dismounted. He began walking up the slope in the hot sunlight. He started to sweat. Did gods perspire? He wondered. It seemed like an uncouth trait for a god. The hall was huge, he saw as he neared it. Some of its columns had fallen. Its roof had collapsed in places. Clearly the gods were having a hard time shifting for themselves. But he would help them. He would use his technological powers to help them rebuild the hall, remold it into the magnificent structure it had been before. They had come out of the hall and were standing before the columned entrance, waiting to welcome him. He saw tall and mighty . He saw stately . He saw  s handsome brothers and sisters. He saw She had exchanged her armor for a white dress that barely covered her breasts and fell just below her hips. Her blue eyes glittered in the sunlight like shards of glass. He was very close to the hall now. He thought it odd that his fellow gods did not come forth to greet him. Then he saw I  #  raise his right arm, as though in salutation. He was about to raise his own in kind leaped from the deity's fingertips. The bolt passed over Hale's head and a moment later Pegasus vanished in a huge gout of flame. The mountain trembled. A hot wind seared the slope. Hale had halted horrified in his tracks. "You don't understand!" he screamed. He looked desperately at Tell them who I am! Tell them what I am! looked coldly back at him. Kill him she said to lowered his arm, extended fingers now pointed toward Hale's head. Hale flung himself frantically to the left and the bolt passed over his shoulder. Blinded by its brightness, he went rolling and scrambling down the slope. Stones rattled around him. His incandescer was torn from his wrist. When he reached the bottom of the slope he staggered to his feet and ran. A sound like the tinkling of ice cubes came from far above. It was the laughter of the gods. l. returned. He slowed his steps and began walking in the direction of the river. He did not reach it till late afternoon. He threw himself face down on the grassy bank and cupped water into his mouth. A low moan sounded from behind him. Turning, he saw the wolf. He twisted his body into a sitting position. Instinctively he raised his arm. Then he remembered that his incandescer was no longer strapped to his wrist, that it had been irretrievably lost on the slope. He let his arm drop to his side. The wolf did not move. Presently Hale realized that it had not followed him to the river, as he had at first assuhied, but had been there before he arrived. He saw that its right flank was badly burned, and recognized it as the wolf 's final thunderbolt had singed. There was pain in the animal's eyes. Hale raised his arm again. This time, the wolf crept to his side and settled down beside him. He stroked its coarse fur, then lay back exhausted on the grass. There were bound to be survivors living along the river. Eventually he would follow it far enough to find them. However much he might want to, he could not live alone. But he was not yet ready. First he must wait for his wound to heal, for the pain to go away. He closed his eyes and presently he slept. The gods looked down from above. But they did not see him -- they saw only their reflections in the stream. What is a god? A god is a being, mortal or immortal, who can with impunity doff his j her democratic mask the moment the need for it is past. Op. cit., p. #  IF The most terrifying life form in the universe was -- himself! trouble. The outer wall of our reactor had cracked. The thermal sealant had leaked in. It was burned up, gone. We had repaired the fault, policed the area, but in order to keep from exceeding our thermal limit and blowing, every liquid on board the ship had been poured into our tanks. It wasn't good enough. Power was evaporating the liquids. Temperatures on board were in excess of #F and they were building. Crew was down to minimal clothing, almost none. And the temperature was going to erase us. We didn't have any liquid for human consumption. And we were # days from Emergency Base Extender. My ship. Patroller #. My captaincy: Colonel Jack L. Powers, United Earth Patrol Forces. Purpose of journey: normal patrol operation. Special situation: Inspector-passenger, General of Patrol Forces, Eight-star Senoir Commander Rallfeld Ship's state: Emergency #. I had. reported to General Rallfeld. He had made no comment, given no advice. And I had no idea. We simply had no other liquids on board. And without liquids we could either go black and freeze or go on until we fusioned. Temperature rose to #F. And there was no place to head, no place to go. The area was Lacuna G #. Crew working at maximum. All nonessential personnel confined to berths -- minimal activity, attempt to add as little additional heat as possible. Working crew was demanding power. Not verbally, but I could see the demand every time they looked at me. One burst of full power for three minutes would lift our temperature five degrees. Where to use it? A three-minute tbrust toward Extender and maybe bring in a dead ship? A patrol ship was worth a fortune. Or a minute full-burst call to Extender requesting emergency rescue? Or a near search in case of remote possibility there was anything in area? G # was largely uncharted. There might have been something within range. "Weiss. Near search. One minute on full power. Commander, see that everything else is cut off. Quickly as possible, Weiss." "Sir," he said and pushed his power call. I reached over and pushed "confirm" on my console. A twelve-second delay and the shot came through. I watched it on power control, I watched it on the thermometer. I watched it on the clock. The damned second hand just seemed to hang there -- the P # register didn't. It was #F down there and I watched as it sped to #. "How far can we go in P four. Chief?" "Two-eleven, Captain. Maybe. I'm not sure. But maybe to twoeleven." We were three degrees up. Could hardly feel it. Just felt thirsty. No hope for that. "Refrigeration off in J Seven, Captaiq." "Anything for it?" "Nothing, sir. That's directly above P Four. It was just a matter of time. You want perishables transferred, sir?" "Commander? How much heat would we generate moving it to nearest refrigeration? Get the list. See if anything essential is in it." "Power off, sir," the bosun told me. IF "Fine. Weiss. Get that analysis as fast as you can." "We're at one-fourteen, sir." "Bad. Get me General Rallfeld. Advise him of our situation." "Sir." "Weiss. What the hell's happening? You have anything? What's taking so long?" "Sorry, sir. The twenty-nine eighty-seven is slow." "Who the hell gave you consent to use it? You're trained. Eye-read it! We're trying to save power. Mister." "Sir, I don't know how to eyeread." "You don't... Any one of you here trained to eye-read a scan chart? No? Okay, Mister. Use the twenty-nine eighty-seven. Try to use it fast, will you." "Yes, sir. I'm sorry, sir." "Forget it. Just concentrate on what you can do." "Sir." pace. But that would mean more heat. We couldn't afford it. Even thinking was too much of an expenditure. What we needed was stasis. I had always laughed at the experiments on preservation, biosuspensions. At Inter-Planetary Science Confederation Conferences I had voted against grants for such research. I regretted those votes now. I was on the verge of losing my ship, my men. "Major, you been on to General Rallfeld?" "Yes, sir." "Any comment from him?" "No, sir. He just thanked you for the courtesy and wishes you luck, sir." "Yes. Get back to him. No, Let me. How much power is used on full ship auditory?" "In thermals, a tenth of a degree, sir." "What's our bio limit. Doctor?" "We're at one-eighteen. Captain. At one-forty we'll begin to suffer severe impairment. I have the figures if you want them." "Go ahead." "We'll lose fifteen per cent in the next twenty-two degrees, sir. Twenty per cent for every accretion of five beyond that. Chance of utilizable surviving crew nonexistent by a hundred and sixty Fahrenheit." "Thank you. Doctor." "One nineteen, sir." "Thank you, son." I thought for a minute. I'd keep it short. No encouragement. There surely wasn't anything encouraging. I reached over and switched on the auditory. "Captain Powers here. Our situation is deteriorating. We're making every attempt to rectify it. We will keep you informed of any significant developements. I'm speaking to you to ask if any of you have any memory of stories told you about Thermal Accelerate, any classroom studies, private investigations. If you have knowledge, information or ideas please report to Commander Rupler by auditory. Thank you." I turned to Weiss after switching off. "Anything?" "Nothing yet, sir. There's nothing in one or two quadrant." "Go ahead with it. Stay easy, son." "Yes, sir." We were up to #F. "Captain. P Four is beyond human habitation." "Thank you. Doctor. What goes next?" "R Five, sir. We have crew there. Twenty-eight men, four women." "Can we move them?" "It's your command, sir." "Very well. Let me know when they're dead." "Yes, sir, Captain." "Captain?" Weiss asked. "I think I have a radio signal. It's area one-seventeen. Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen -- it's at sixteen hours. Mass. Mass? It's a planet, there are dozens -- there are hundreds of radio transmitters, sir. It's an inhabited planet! An inhabited planet! It has intelligent life!" "Easy, son. Verify, please." "Yes, sir." "Chief. What's our capacity to do sixteen hours?" "We could do it, sir. Cut off everything. We could do it. We'd get there four or five before critical mass. We'd be dry." "Doctor?" "I'm checking it. Captain. Okay. Yes. It would take us up to onefifty Fahrenheit -- say fifty-five per cent mortality. Maybe down to fifty per cent if survivors can get liquids immediately on landing." "Commander. Is there any record of an inhabited planet in this area?" "None, sir." "Captain. General Rallfeld to speak to you, sir." "One minute. Okay. Prepare for full propulsion power. You have a confirm on that, Weiss?" "Yes, sir. It's absolute. It's there. No mistake. Captain." "All right. Prepare to go, gentlemen. We're getting out." I reached up for the phone. To an eight-star I spoke privately. "General. This is Captain Powers." "I'd like to see you in my quarters. Captain." "General. We're in Emergency. We have just found an I planet at sixteen hours. I'm preparing to go for it. I don't feel I can leave my command at this moment, sir." IF "I figured you'd find it. There's no sense in your going toward that planet, Captain. Get down here. Go or don't go on your fire command. It doesn't matter. But get down here. I'll explain when you do. That is an order." "I don't understand, sir. Do you advise against my firing?" "It doesn't matter. Captain. Nothing is going to save this ship. Might as well go for it. But give your command and then get down here." "Yes, sir," I said. "Commander. Fire when you're ready. If you need me I'll be with the general." Ben looked at me. I just shrugged. And I patted Weiss on his shoulder on the way out. I had a lot to live for. If there was any chance of living I was going to make it and my s#iip and my crew would make it with me. Mark," came over the auditory. "Three, two, one." I held on for it. It was a quick burst, minimum added G. I waited for any after kick. There was none. It was damned hot down there in the passageway. I knocked. The general opened the door. His face was grim, taut. He was a lot of years my senior, one of the earliest patrollers, an almost legendary man. But he didn't look old. He also didn't look as if he were feeling the heat. Responsibility of command goes deep. We were probably the only two men aboard still in full uniform, the only two aboard using all our will power to keep our sweat glands from betraying that we felt the heat, too. "General." "Captain. Sit down. This  planet. From here it's fourth quadrant, degree one-seventeen?" he asked, going to hi table and looking down at a chart. "That's correct, sir. May I ask how you know that?" "I've been following your progress. Captain. I would have come up and offered assistance if I'd known anything to help you. To the best of my knowledge and in the light of my experience I recommend that you cut off oxygen. Go black. Captain." "We're still alive, sir," "This planet we are now heading toward. Captain -- I was the first man to make contact with it." "You've been there, sir? But -- " "Easy, Captain. It's not on charts because it was removed from them by command decision. As you approach the planet, you have automatic gear that will signal nine. Condition nine." "Nine means forbidden. Why, sir? And when? Why haven't we gotten the signal by this time?" " Because you're not using enough power to get distant scan. As you near -- on any degree of power -- the nine signal will come up." "But this is Emergency One, sir." "What docs nine mean, Captain?" "Approach forbidden under all circumstance, sir." "Exactly. So what do you propose to do?" "At this moment -- with no alternative? I'll land. General. If we can get there why not try it? It means dying there or here." "I don't think you will land. The planet we are approaching was once briefly list as Rallfeld. I thought I was the discoverer. I first made contact, I thought. I believed I was the first man who landed. The inhabitants are a pretty extraordinary species, Captain. They have no form, none that I know. If they do they've never let us see it. The form they take is the sympathetic. If you were an elephant. Captain, you might find they all were elephants." "They'll wear our form for us?" "Yes. They can assume your form if they choose. Or they can assume the form of this starship or a fleet of starships. They could turn themselves into an army of patrollers. If that happened, in that army the brain duplication would have the imperative of getting home. Captain; getting back to weapons and then all it would take would be the move across space. You'll have on your mind Extender. They'll get to Extender. I think they are indestructable. Captain, and I know their only purpose is to destroy. What men once fantasied Mars was, what Sparta once was... Sir, this is the planet of war. And, Captain, if you land you will be risking the annihilation of Earth and perhaps of half the I planets in the universe." "Butyou say that you landed." ilL#ES. They were quiescent X then. Captain, things were different. I was just storming around, really an explorer, an adventurer more than a patroller. My orders were to go out to my fuel capacity and then turn around and head back. We weren't in trouble. We were in a normal mode. My chief spotted them. He yelled at me. Great excitement. Those days our contacts with other species -- with I planets -- were minimal and tremendously exciting. We were getting radio. We didn't believe it. And it wasnH a simple signal. They were jamming up every one of the bands. "In those days our equipment was primitive, but we had equipIF ment. We tricked in on the signals and da go out to my fuel capacity and then turn around and head back. We weren't in trouble. We were in a normal mode. My chief spotted them. He yelled at me. Great excitement. Those days our contacts with other species -- with I planets -- were minimal and tremendously exciting. We were getting radio. We didn't believe it. And it wasn't a simple signal. They were jamming up the bands. "In those days our equipment was primitive, but we had equipment. We tracked in on the signals and damn if they weren't coming from a planetary body. It was beyond our safe-reserve fuel allotment -- but hell, if we could get to it I wanted to do so. "So we moved for it. And we did a broad scan. You know how close the nearest star is. Captain? This is a true Lacuna. Hell, you can hardly see stars with your naked eye in this black. We searched. How the devil could you have a planet with a riot of radio coming from it -- life on it -- and no star? That didn't make sense. Until that time our every contact had been with similar life forms with similar needs. We really believed we were the dominant species in the universe. Hell, you saw a Zithythin and you hardly could tell him from a Swe. Their planets were like ours, their life forms all were. But we were coming to this planet and what the hell would they be?" He stopped and seemed to be remembering. The cabin was hot. I wondered how much worse jt was than before we had gone on power. It felt worse. "Ships then were slow," he resumed. "We just inchetLacross to. them. Their radio signals strengthened. They weren't signaling out. The sounds wre weird to our ears but we decided they were variations of a home-service radio. Music, entertainment talk shows. We had an early version of the lingual transverter. We put it on the signals. It took a little time but it actually checked out. We were listening to disk jockeys and pop tunes. Just like home. A complex language. A language we would now classify as type N four-fortyone. Closest thing to it was Chinese, perhaps. "We kept probing. First thing we hit was that the Lacuna wasn't always that. At one time they had over four thousand stars around one massive one. Of the four thousand stars, at least fifteen hundred had planetary systems. Everyone of those stars. Captain, was dead. They were cinders, all burned out." "In one area? How? What happened?" "Let me go on. Captain. One hundred and twenty-six hours after our first contact we went into a distant orbit. From there we found no probes, no defenses, no electronic queries. They had radio but they were only using it for entertainment. Through our lingual transverter we sent down a query. We identified and requested per. mission to land. This obviously was a sophisticated planet. We received no response. In the meantime we did standard electronic probing, made quite difficult by the darkness. We found electricity, but no light. We found heat but no fire. We found elaborate cities, quite large cities. There were bodies of water,Ngreat mountains. The planet is twice the size of ours. We later discovered it maintains a popula"After repeated attempts to make contact or sense, we determined -- or more properly I did -- to make our landing. Itvas something very special, Captain. We came down on a field outside one of their largest cities. With no sun there shouldn't have been anything much-"but, Captain, we came down in paradise. Our lights showed flora so lavish and rich in colors so exotic that it exceeded the best we have on Earth. There was -- and this is difficult to describe to a professional -- a peace, a calm. The air was our air. The temperature was balmy. A spring bubbled fifty yards from us and the water was pure. It was what Earth water probably was in the beginning. Beautiful, Captain. "No one came out to greet us. We waited, but no one came. We carried rovers in those days. In violation of standing orders I relieved myself of command and with two of my men and our one semiportable transverter we drove into the city. X All darkness. No windows on great buildings that soared beyond anything we had even imagined on Earth -- architectural forms fabricated of materials so beautiful that we stopped to stare at walls. Paved streets, no street lamps, gutters, drains. Sizes made us feel the natives must be bigger than we were, but not considerably bigger. There were no lamp posts, no other lighting forms or facilities. The darkness, except where our lights probed, was total. "We drove on. There were no vehicles in the streets. The streets were immaculate. Unbelievable place. Captain, absolutely unbelievable. There were no natives on the streets -- we saw no animal life whatever. We kept going. Around every corner we discovered a new wonder. Then we reached the business section. Still no people, J IF which made us guess that it was perhaps their night. The stores had no display windows -- you know what they had instead? They had radio and they had little boxes. The radio advertised -- quietly it offered descriptions and prices. If you put your hands in the boxes you could feel the items or simulations of them. We were a little afraid but tried it. Difficult. If you've ever tried to identify even a familiar object in the darkness in one of those party games, you'll know how difficult it was -- but totally fascinating, Captain. This feel thing -- apparently they had even worked in out to replace movies. Feel a sound. They had no light. We had sensors and I swear to you we came up with zero photons. Nothing. Only our lights, our headlights, our spotlights -- old ruby lasers. "The place was -- or seemed -- deserted, abandoned. There was radio everywhere -- even traffic control, believe it or not -- but we came up with nothing. Equipment primitive by your standards, but not unsophisticated. "And then. Captain, right off a massive central square -- our lights turned as we did and suddenly we had in them an image of me. It wasn't quite perfect to my eyes. It was a slight variation, features copied but just perceptibly modified. But it was me.lVX 'Jesus.' I told hirb to stop. I got out, holding my light on this doppelganger. I walked up to it slowly. It was dressed as I was with modifications, unfrightened as I was, curious as I was. " 'Bring over the transverter -- slowly' I called back to my men. " 'Not necessary, Captain,' it said. It spoke our language even. Mister Powers. It even had that. " 'Who are you?' " 'An official. I'm a guide in this instance. You are a patroller from the planet Earth. Please, would you lower your light to below my eyes. It is the first light I've ever seen. It has beauty but it is painful.' " 'Sorry. We're interested in you -- your planet. We have contact with other species. We -- ' " 'I know. Captain. Let me quickly tell you our story. We are immortal. Yet we have births but maintain our population.' " 'Mass deportations?' " 'No. We are not a very old civilization. I, frankly, am not clear as to the nature or science of our full developmental story. We were primitives on a naked planet at about the same time your species lived in caves. And then one of us discovered... We had waters and naked rock, barren soil. Some visitor must have brought the fishes. We had fishes -- we fished them. One day while this ancestor was Fishing, knowing that his tribe had hunger, he was thinking strongly of fish. Suddenly he saw a fish and by a curious process he became a duplicate of that animal. He flopped to the ground -- another tribesman grabbed him and he was eaten. But one of the tribe who had witnessed the transfiguration decided to investigate. " 'Apparently we had the capacity to adopt any form. However, the capacity was limited to one adoption. Some of us turned ourselves into rocks. When visitors came and taught us of trees and grass and animals on their planets, some of us turned ourselves into those things. But most of us simply lived and grew and learned. I forget, that was in the time of the Great Light. Suns those days there was never darkness. " 'Then it was simple. More and more advanced races came to visit. And suddenly our world exploded with new possibilities. They had radio, we -- some of us -- became transmitters and others receivers. They had images of their cities. Some of us were drawn by those images and turned ourselves into the buildings and streets -- enough. Captain, so that we had cities. Perhaps you chose to be a great building forever -- or if you thought ill of yourself, maybe you became a gutter. Think of it. Everything you see, you have seen, was once one of us.' "'What happened then?' I asked this copy of myself. " 'By copying we assimilated many elements of many civilizations. From primitivism we became advanced. It all happened quickly. Four thousand of you years ago we were peasants. Three thousand six hundred of your years ago we had become the most advanced civilization in the universe. We even visited your planet. Funny stories of that. One day I must tell you.' "'Whatever you want to tell me,' I said. " 'Perhaps I should tell first of a very handsome speicies of very distant visitors who came to us. They were having some difficulty with their population and they considered our planet suitable for their colonial needs. So they came in great numbers, bent on conquest. It was very impressive to us. Prior to this we had had no knowledge of war. Suddenly, Captain, almost all of us wanted to be warriors. We became them. We had no logistic problems as they did, but we had all their knowledge and skills and technology. We quickly defeated them in a bloody battle that only was too short -- and with our warriors' hunger we felt compelled to go on. IF We went off, Captain, to conquer the universe. We were mostly warriors, what else was there to do?' " The universe is vast. Please lower that light. Captain. It pains my eyes -- they are greatly atrophied after three thousand years of darkness. We conquered and conquered -- planet after planet fell to us. We were mighty, powerful, ruthless. Too much so, it seems. The other planets, the ones we had not yet destroyed, for the first time came into a confederation for the specific purpose of acting against us. In one great sweep -- while most of our arriors wefe off at wars -- they came and burned out our stars and destroyed those of us who were weapons and eradicated every source of light. Remember, we can only copy. They destroyed all our sources of light and with no model we had no new capacity to make light, even to make fire. Their purpose was to kill us, of course. How could life exist without some of the products of light? But enough of us had not yet committed ourselves to a modification. We still had our adaptability. We became creatures of darkness -- even those of us who chose to be plants -- food -- soon became indestructible plants -- immortal. Don't ask me how. Immortality is basic to our species -- it is the one thing we have. Our children have the capacity to change as I have changed to copy your image.' " 'You'll always be my image?' " 'Yes.' " 'Can others become you, become my image?' " 'Only from the original. Captain. There is infinite allowance of duplication from the original.' " 'You are no longer a warrior race?' " 'That is difficult to say. It is part of our genetic heritage. Given freedom to move and be and given sight -- who knows what we might be again.' " 'The light went out three thousand years ago?' " 'That is correct, Captain.' " 'And you've just maintained yourselves in this darkness in a relatively quiescent state?' " 'We are noted for our perseverance. We always go on. The stores you have passed, the radio you have heard they go back to the days of light or the period before the lack of light forced modification. For three thousand six hundred years it has been as you see it. We have survived. We have waited.' W We thanked him. He urged us not to rush off. We said that we had to, but we would report and we certainly expected to send back a full Sci-Explor Team. He said that he and his people would look forward to that. And then we left." "They have water there?" I asked the general. "You are being obtuse. Perhaps it's the heat. Yes, of course they have water. But we never went back. No scientiHc team visited them. They are strictly a prohibited planet. They are rated a prime menace. They are just waiting to copy from anyone -- to copy enough so that they can go out and conquer again." "How can you know that, General?" "Restricted File Nine-A-four." "That's an ancient history file." " "Yes. These beings have the capacity to become invincible. For the sake of all I planets inthese galaxies, for the sake of Earth, I am sorry -- but I must forbid you to land."  "We need liquids or we will die. General." "Eight hundred and twenty-seven there? I recommend. Captain, that you shut off oxygen. Death will be swift and painless. I further recommend that you aim your ship at the planet and time it for full fusion impact. These creatures are an abomination." "My responsibility is to this ship and to my crew." "Like hell it is. Captain. Your responsibility is considerably greater than that." "Very well. General. Thank you for telling me this. I'll take it under advisement." "I'll iake command. You are relieved. Captain." "No, General It's my ship. Consider yourself confined to quarters," I told him and stalked out. N othing new to report as I resumed my command. Temperature was #F. Revised estimates indicated ship mortality would be # at #F. Ship proceding on course with minimal power utilization. Crew resting, in position. Command room filled with nudists. The very attractive flight officer Duncan wore only a cache sex. It was largely sweated through and transparent. Duncan was the one beauty on the ship. Every man had hoped from the outset to establish a relationship with her. She had proved stiff, devoid of humor, uninterested in semal pursuits, painfully modest no totally untouchable. I watched bead of perspiration roll down the valley between her high breasts. I found I had not enough juices to be aroused. No other crewman or ofIF ficer on the deck seemed even aware of her nudity. We just sat, too tired and enervated to speak. We waited. We watched the clock. We watched the thermometer slowly inch up. We listened to the brief reports of new compartments reaching Thermal Accelerate Lethal. And we wasted away. Our freeze-dried foods had no liquids in them, there was not even frost to lick. We had no liquids in us -- not any more. We fasted. And every half-hour we got the to the general's planet: Rallfeld: G etting hard to breathe. The nasal passages burn, they feel all wrong, unnatural. We're three from Rallfeld -- call it that. I announced it to the crew as if it meant something. The doctor says it just had to be something for them to hang on to. A number. Our voices croak when we speak. My throat feels as if it's going to hemorrhage. The worst thing is the building headache. No one is sweating any more. That's over. Four crewmen and the .major are down. I've just left them. I don't have the strength to move them -- I doubt that anyone else has. They're just down where they fell, a reproach to me, a reminder of our imminent fate to the others. Temperature is now #. I'm trying to guess at what temperature our instruments will start going out, though I know that most of them will certainly outlast us. I keep wondering whether it isn't worth the risk to open primary or at least secondary approach procedures just to have some reference if the heat does knock essential equipment out of function. But if I use that power now, knowing that I'm obligated to use full power on j-eal approach, how many more men will I kill? God! It's a great ship, an extraordinarily fine entrustment of command. But with the trust I have responsibility. What do I do? Rallfeld has to be judged rational. He seemed rational when he told the story. I believed his experience. But belief isn't enough, not with command. The override gauge, the supreme command center counter, even without power is reading Condition #. That means they must have a satellitp'system and their transmitters must have max power. # means off limits. Going into the mushrooms of a nuclear war they only send out a #. Nine means it. If I land and get away with it -- if I save the ship and my crew -- if I get back alive with no damage done they will still lock me up for life. The penalty is automatic. There are no exceptions. But how could they know? If I pull it off, how would they know? If the planet is twice the size of our Earth with only a fraction of Earth's population certainly there has to be one place sparsely populated. It's dark perpetually. We could go in, get the water in fast and get the hell off. And then I could claim I didn't know anything, didn't know where the hell I was, was too irrational in a heat stroke to even be aware of #. Temperature is #. We're now # down -- we've stopped counting cortex burnouts. It's bad. I don't understand how I'm still making it. Eighty-two minutes from the planet. Difficult to swallow the stimulants -- effects are erratic and lunatic. As long as they are blind or almost blind, as long as all is darkness below -- as long as they don't have light we have to be fairly safe. If we actually encountered them, how many would there be? We could go out fully armed, kill everything. The only real danger would be if they captured one of us. Say one sees us, or a dozen, or a hundred, or a thousand. As long as they can't hold us for endless replications, what can they do? They can't take" reproductions from each other. With maximum urgency, with every facility at our command, we can get the water and get out. Even if they somehow took ten thousand of us- -- what would ten thousand mean against all the power of the Patrollers? No threat, no serious threat. Speed is the only issue, the single issue.  Seventy-five minutes. I'll turn on approach at fifteen, not before. And even that is premature and very late. The doctor just fell. He was a good friend. Do I explain again chain of command? No. They know. If I don't make it they'll handle it. They're a fine crew. "We're at two hundred and five degrees Fahrenheit, Captain," the chief said. he was talking about P #. We had six degrees before we blew up. I made my mind stop thinking of what was happening in the reactor, getting ready to burst out of it. Twenty-eight minutes. Question is whether to wait on approach power. I tried to think. "We'll go into approach at four minutes. Power at four and a half. Can you handle it that quickly?" "Yes, sir." "All right. Now listen. We're going to have damn little chance to pick and choose our site. We want IF water and we want to be as far from any habitation as possible. No contact. When we get in: full armed section, manual total annihilate. The men must keep together. Hoses and fast-as-possible loading." "It'll take us time to cool." "Okay. Then land, sit tight, buttoned up. We wait, then out and fast load." "Life support?" "Not necessary. There is oxygen compatible atmosphere." If we're battened down and just sit on the surface, even with time, what the hell can they do to us? They might duplicate our ship but what about our interior? What good would the ship be without our interior, without us, without our operating knowledge? No. They won't be able to touch us. Temperature fierce. It's difficult to think, to move. Twelve minutes. Maybe I'll go down in history as the greatest traitor, but I'm not going to sit here and die. I'm not going to surrender my command to death. I'm even thinking in a whisper. "So you're going ahead. Captain," a strong, natural voice. I turned painfully, slowly. It was the general. He was fully uniformed. He wasn't sweating. He didn't look weakened. He stood there. "I ordered you confined to your quarters, General." "Poor Captain Powers. You have decided to go in, haven't you?" "Yes, General. It's a risk that I must take." "Very well. Just do not forget that I did my best to warn you. I tried to stop you." "Yes. I understand. When we get back to Extender, I'll place myself under arrest, sir." "Do you mind if I stay up and watch the landing? It's sort of coming home, you know?" "Do what you please. Just don't interfere, sir." "Tell me this. Captain. As I understand the new propulsion technology, a simple weld and a viscuous fluid would fix up your ship to perfection. Is that correct?" "That's all. General. Just that." "Good. I'll just get out of your way, unless you should want me to help." "How is it you still have your voice, your strength?" "Constitution, I suppose. Captain." He smiled. Temperature up to #F. Onehalf minute to power. In a great flash the screen lit. We had U-V on, dark probe. It is wrong! Lights. They have lights down there! Water. One, there. Another body of water. Yes. Looks sparsely populated. Good. No roads, nothing. Looks safe. Going for it. Those are lights. Where did they get them? How? Going in fast. Strong gravity pull. Three minutes. Nothing else left Abort attempt now would take us into fusion. Up to #F in P #. Our temperature is #. Just coming in now. Nothing to it. Just steady in. "Where the hell did they get those lights?" X Captain. The rover. I guess they must have replicated that like crazy. That laser spot, those headlights." "Coming in. Captain. Thirty-five seconds." We're going to make it. "Down! Down! We're down!" "Shut off -- everything off!" "Well, you made it. Captain. Congratulations." "Yes. Why didn't you tell me that you'd left them light?" "Call it dual loyalties. I'm taking over command of this ship, now. Captain." "Why now?" "We're here is why. You and your crew may consider yourselves prisoners of war. If I have any influence I'll try to persuade my people to treat you according to the Interplanetary Convention." "You are -- " I tried to get it out, couldn't. My tongue was swollen. "Sabotage?" "The heat really slowed up your thinking. Captain. The story about the first visit to the planet is quite true. Just the one now obvious slight omission. Come with me. Captain. Here. I'll help you." "No." "Oh, yes. I tried to save you. I've admired your species. But I do have my loyalties, you know." "No." "Yes, Captain. You needn't be worried about your life, not for a good long time." He walked over to me and just lifted me in his arms. I wanted to fight but I was too feeble. He was an old man but he just picked me up and carried me. We went down ship, my ship. I desperately wanted to fight him, kill him, get to the controls. I had to get us to fusion. But I couldn't even lift my arms. Crew fallen away, dead littering the passageways. We reached the hatch. I knew what awaited me even before it opened. They were there in the light -- thousands of them, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands. Silent, disciplined, menacing. They were all Rallfeld. It's # days to Extender; # days to Forward Seven; #I days to Pluto Area Base. In # days, I -- a home.  IF a long low hill. The slope to her anterior portion was almost identical to that of her posterior -- gradual and not at all precipitous. Her mouth, an efficient grazer's mouth, was hidden by the anterior part of her body and pointed straight down over the vegetation that formed her diet. Armored over her entire length, she normally had nothing to fear at this latitude. Occasionally the vespertosauri would get this far, but they were a minor hazard at worst. No projection thrust itself from her profile -- even her eyes were sunk beneath several layers of armor, massive eyelids that opened only when vibration gave a warning -- for even to a teratohippus the powerful winds of the region were a danger. She was well adapted to her environment. A masterpiece of Betulian evolution. As the official guidebook put it: Teratohippus ectostia -- one of the wonders of Betul's fauna, this huge beast is a harmless grazer inhabiting the polar reaches of the planet and surviving on otherwise inedible plant life there. Little is known of its physiology or behavior because of the difficulties of conducting research in the barren reaches of its habitat. Although the creature is comparatively rare, you may be able to observe one grazing as you pass over the northern tundras on your way to the Ferris Observatory... Jl, perhaps the thousandth frozen rill -- this one looking exactly to her guidebook (itself not very trip over the desolation would end. She had been told the journey to the Betulian pole would last "all day" and had been unable to imagine what the term could mean on a planet with a much longer day than Earth's -- and on a course that followed the sun on its journey. It was still broad daylight. Eight hours had passed and the pilot -- Captain Chamberlan -- had just announced they were six hours away from Ferris. Only five passengers were on board. The others were her Project Chief Dr. Jens Hiacint and the team's documentarian, Henry Dalmat, plus two astrohistorians from the Grand University of Tufts, Earth's leading institute for interplanetary archivalism. She had not caught the names of the last two (she thought one was named Smith) and they hadn't tried hard to get acquainted. IF anui. Latest U.S. Government tests of all cigarettes show True is lower in both tar and nicotine than # of all cigarettes sold. Think about it. Shouldn't your next cigarette be True? Regular and Menthol: I # mg. "tar',' # mg. nicotine, Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined That Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health. Lorillard # Latest U.S. Government tests of all menthol cigarettes show True is lower in both tar and nicotine than # o all other menthols sold Think about it. Shouldn't your next cigarette be True? Archivalists generally looked down on the sciences she and her two colleagues represented. Alien biology was still a fairly new field and only a few schools, such as their University of Wayland, dabbled in it. Earth was still hung up on history, she thought, because of its economic value in settling legal claims of possession. She supposed interplanetary law -- with its attendant fields, archivalism and power theory -- was important. (Earth was of value now only as a receptacle of documents and as an arbiter of dispute.) But she wished they would recognize the importance of other -- less pragmatic -- sciences as well. None of the passengers were "tourists," of course, because no ordinary citizen could afford the immense costs of visiting another solar system and its developing planet. They were, like most visitors to Betul, Earthling scientists sponsored by wealthy universities on a mission intended to add to that vast repository of information that was the parent planet. object on the horizon she immediately remembered the item in her guidebook. She turned back a few pages and read the meager information on teratohippus. She nudged Dr. Hiacint and pointed out the beast. He had been dozing but became instantly alert. Hiacint was a leading alien biologist, head of her department. He grabbed his binoculars and leaned against the porthole as he examined the strange beast. "God, what I'd give to be able to look at it up close." His gray head was quivering with excitement. "May I use your glasses a minthis animal was a classic example in her specialty. He handed over the binoculars with overt reluctance. She looked closely at the mountainous creature and marveled at how it could get enough sustenance in these barren wastes. Her excitement was perhaps greater than his. "I wonder if we could manage an opportunity to study it while we are here?" She looked questioningly at Hiacint. Behind her she heard a snicker. One of the astrohistorians (the one named Smith?) had his head buried in a vital statistics record from Ferris -- he was deliberately ignoring the beast on the tundra. "You could never last out there. Miss Verd," he said. "I understand the temperature approaches absolute zero when darkness falls." "And how do you know so much?" He gestured at his book. "I've been reading about attempts to reach and study that creature. Survival down there is almost impossible for humans. No one has ever lived through an attempt to travel the tundra on the surface. A team of three biologists died a few years ago near here while trying to observe a teratohippus or whatever you call them. It says here that -- " "Oh, be quiet," she snapped. "I don't have time to waste right now." She looked back at the animal, was alarmed to see that the skimmer was almost directly above it. She pressed her face against the port. "Does it seem to be moving?" she asked Dr. Hiacint. "I can't see anything resembling movement. But we don't know yet what is under all that armor. It could be feeding -- or doing any number of things down there." "Professor, isn't there equipment for survival in that type of environment?" "Of course there's equipment," the astrohistorian butted in. "But it has limitations, mainly on the length of time you can stay out there, but also on the size and sophistication required for your type of studies." She told him petulantly, "I didn't ask you, Mr. Smith." It was then that she felt the barely perceptible, but different, vibration in the skimmer. The others sensed it, too, to judge by their expressions. She looked out through the porthole and saw the surface approaching. "My God. We're going down."  tain in the Visitor's Transportation Section, had been cursing his boredom and wondering why he had volunteered for the job. The Exploratory Corps needed the money brought in by visitors, of course, and someone had to tend to them... but, he thought, why me? He always reached this stage about halfway across these barren deserts between Base and Ferris. The ship nearly flew itself and he could hardly keep from dozing. But he couldn't afford to give in. His passengers might be looking at him -- their entire crew -- and lose faith. But he was yawning when it happened. The shudder was caused by a lack of power. He quickly switched off the reactor, which showed an unaccountable and dangerous temperature. Auxiliary power came on immediately and automatically, but the shuddering did not cease. He glanced at the gauge and realized there was simply not enough energy on board to keep the craft flying. The ship gave a series of violent jerks. The engines deprived of IF their customary load, were straining. He switched all he had into the landing mode and the skinmer calmed down a bit. He programed immediate touchdown procedures and punched the Mayday indicator. Another serious shockwave shook the small ship and he switched off the signal. There was just enough energy now, to keep the ship in landing mode. It was settling slowly to the surface, shuddering slightly. "Crash positions," he yelled to his passengers, afraid even to use the intercom. Over his shoulder he saw his charges folding their seats back to reclining position. Then the shudder became a gasp. He manually overrode the landing mode and speeded up the descent. At about fifteen meters the power went out completely. The frozen, powdery, mold-like life on the tundra -- the basic food of the teratohippus -- saved their lives as the ship plummeted to the surface. -- which felt something like a vespertosaur mounting its attacking dive -- she started to close up all her defenses and prepare for an attack. But being the slow, deliberate creature she was, she elected to wait and analyze the. vibrations a little longer. They were coming from almost overhead and they seemed to her more like the stragglings of some small dying creature than the threatening dive of a predator. She felt the shock of the craft crashing somewhere behind her and her multiple olfactors recognized the slight scent of a plentitude of food at the point of impact. The silence following the shock convinced her that no danger dwelt in the little creature that just died. The rich odor of food was tempting, but she could not afford to turn about for it. Ahead, many days ahead, was her nest with her young -- now in hibernation -- who would require her milk soon. She was two-thirds of the way through her circle. She could not stop now. Her brain blotted out the memory of the strange dying creature that flew and programed itself for the critical days ahead when time -- she thought -- would be her greatest enemy. (he must have been unconscious only a minute or two) he was amazed they were all still alive. The skimmer had not been designed to take that hard a fall and -- with total loss of power -- the life-support systems should have failed, too. He checked over the systems before he even checked on the passengers. Life support was functioning -- partially -- on stored power sources that were independent of all other systems. They had perhaps eight hours to go. Communications systems were dead, destroyed on impact. All locomotive systems were out. What he had left were a few scanning systems. It didn't look good. He made his way back through the debris to check on the passengers. "Everyone okay?" "Yes, I think so." The speaker was Hiacint, who had pretty well taken over direction of the party. "What I don't understand is -- with the damage to all the equipment -- why weren't we all injured?" "That's easy to explain, sir," Chambelan said after a minute's thought. "Those cabin seats were salvaged from the interplanetary ship that brought our first team to Betul. They were designed to protect passengers from much greater impacts than this. What really surprises me is why the shell to this skimmer didn't fracture. With no breathable oxygen and as flimsily dressed as we are, we could have had no injuries and could still have died in seconds." Dr. Hiacint had a small instrument in his hands. "While you were busy up front I was examining the powdery substance that we landed in. We seem to have hit a colony of a supercold one-celled life. It seems to have a depth of several meters. The ship's fall was broken by the colony's bulk. Now we have 'floated' to the top of the mass -- probably a group rejection of an alien substance." "What is that gadget?" "It's a bioscanner. I took my reading through the porthole and analyzed it with my portable Prolyzer, The colony seems to be moldlike -- " "Mold?" "Yes, you might say a giant supercold mushroom saved our lives." "That's all very interesting, but when are we going to be rescued?" The speaker was Michael Peripet, leader of the Initial Archivalist Documentation Team. Chambelan took a deep breath. "I don't really know if we are going to be rescued. I was only able to broadcast Mayday for a few seconds. I had a choice of broadcasting or crashing. I chose to land safely. It is doubtful that anyone heard our Mayday." "Why aren't you sending out a message now?" "Because our communications are shot. Besides, we don't have the power even if we could repair the equipment." IF "We have power to keep this ship warm. Why don't we have enough to send out a message?" "You don't seem to appreciate the tremendous energy required for communication on a planet this size. We are somewhere in the middle of a vast area that comprises one-third of Betul. Betul is about three-fifths the size of the planet Jupiter. Line-of-sight communications -- the most economical -- are impossible. Our only means of reaching either Base or Ferris Observatory is by planetary modulation and this requires a great deal more than we have available." "Surely they'll miss our flight and come looking for us," Dr. Verd asked, "won't they?" "I'm sure they will. But by the time we're missed at Ferris -- about six hours from now -- our present power supplies will be almost exhausted. As I said earlier, we won't last more than a few seconds once our life-support system fails." Peripet was looking through the porthole at the bleak tundra of Betul. "What a place to die." Chambelan felt a little embarrassed. He was responsible for the safety of these people, but there really wasn't anything he could do. "I think I'll go up front and see if I can salvage some communications gear. It's our only hope. Maybe a scout ship will be in the area for normal, IjNifi-of-sight communications." As he turned to leave he knew there was no hope of the last. Scout ships seldom came to this area. All personnel were busy building the new closed city at Estrodome, on the far side of Betul. But he had to keep up a good front. The rest stared with Peripet through the ports at the forbidding spot that would probably become their tomb. II T he captain had been busy for more than a hour in the cabin up front. He didn't seem to be having much luck. The archivalists had withdrawn inco themselves and were still staring out. Good old Dalmat was busy recording everything -- particularly the evidence on the mold culture that had broken their fall -- for future generations. Dr. Hiacint was running more tests and feeding them to Dalmat. They were both good shame to see them die like this. She was still thinking about the teratohippus, about survival, about things that were and ought to be. "Professor," she said Tinally, "I've been wondering about something. Our biggest problem now is centered around the need for heat." "Yes, I've had that on my mind, too. We seem to have food supplies and oxygen for several days, but a source of energy great enough to protect us from the intense cold here is our greatest need." "Is there any way of searching this area for a source of heat? I was thinking of the teratohippus. If it survives and is able to move that huge bulk -- musn't it generate large amounts of heat?" "It should." Professor Hiacint was thinking. He turned toward the cabin where the captain was working. "Chambelan," he called, "do you have a functioning infrared scanner?" "Yes, among other scanning equipment. But I have no equipment for analysis." "We can use my Prolyzer, which is still operative. Let's scan the area for heat sources." "What good will that do us?" "Perhaps none. But what harm will it do?" and was moving toward the cabin. Hiacint gathered up some materials and followed her. He connected his data-plotter onto the ship's infrared scanner and Chambelan started a sweep. His first effort revealed no heat sources at all, nothing within sight even near survival levels for human beings. told them. "Bring it in on the' Teratohippus itself. If there's any heat source out there capable of being of value to us it must be in a creature the size of that thing." Chambelan tuned the instrument to tight scan and manually aimed the fountenna at the crealeaned over the Prolyzer -- which Hiacint had programed for direct image response on the screen. At first nothing appeared. The professor punched in a more sensitive response and slowly an image came on the screen -- a bluish tinge showed on a field of gray. "The heat level on the creature's dermis is far belqw survival level for us, about forty degrees below freezing."" A frown and a shrug showrf Hiacint's disappointment. looking closely at the screen, where a tiny green speck appeared. "Look there." Then: "Captain, would you try to take the scan in even closer -- onto that spot?" Chambelan tightened the scan even more and guided the external fountenna as best as he could. As he gingerly inched the level forward the green dot became a large field. Hiacint punched madly onto the IF found it. There seems to be . an aperture in this creature with temperatures suitable for the support of human life. The aperture itself is barely large enough for a human, but -- "  "But it could lead to something "But whydo you think so? asked Chambelan. "Ah, that's Miss Verd's specialty," Hiacint replied. "She pioneered the field of teracial biology by finding similar types of creature on other planets. She can probably explain better than I." "This life-form undoubtedly belongs to the class known as Teraciae. They are all large animals, exoskeletal and usually warm-blooded, which have adapted to extremely cold environments on once-warm worlds. The external skeleton is a primary evolutionary tool for their survival and generally includes a cavity of varying size for the purpose of air intake -- a breathing chamber, US it were." "But why a cavity?" "Because the creature's breathing apparatus is still attuned to its warmer existence. The cavity allows the external air to be warmed up before it enters the animal's lungs. I was only guessing, but I supposed this creature to be like others I've studied." Professor to Chambelan. "Do any means of leaving this shipt" "Yes, there are suits aboard for limited use outside. They contain enough fuel to provide warmth for about an hour -- but certainly not enough for a trip to the creature and back." reach the teratohippus?" "I think so." "Then one of us must go out and see if we can use it for survival." Chambelan got up. "I guess Vd better go. There's a good chance that whoever goes won't come back." "But you wouldn't know what to professor. "Would he?" Hiacint started to open his mouth, but Captain, I really must be the one to go." "But you're the only wo -- " Hiacint's warning glance directed Chambelan's attention to the He felt a little foolish, but he nodded reluctantly. "Yes." ii "V#OU know, my name really X isn't Smith." EV suit and looked up in surprise. "Did I ever say it was?" "Yes, just before the accident or whatever it was. I believe I was teasing you a bit and -- " "Teasing? You were being downright nasty." "I suppose I was. I'd like vto apologize." She finished inserting herself into the rather flimsy suit and was testing the bulky heating unit she would wear on her back. "That's all right. I'd really forgotten about it." He seemed a little embarrassed. "By the way, what is your name?" "It's Smirg, Evan Smirg. I'm the vivistorian with the team." She looked a little puzzled. The word was new to her. You never knew what gimmick the archivalists would come up with in order to grab more responsibility in interspace affairs. She started to set on her helmet when he caught her hand. "Wait. What I really want to say is that I think I should take your place and go out there." She lowered the helmet. "Why?" "Well -- first, I'm probably the least capable of aiding the group in a survival situation. And second, I don't think a woman should take such a risk. I think -- " When the rest of the group got there, Smirg was nursing a sore eye, trying to stop the flow of blood from his nose and choking back a lock's inner door and was grinning triumphantly through the viewport. In another instant she was outside, alone in the forbidding atmosphere of Betul. teratohippus is of only minor importance, but it does contribute. It is one (certainly the largest) of a number of grazers descended from sea dwellers of eons ago when Betul was a planet of tropical waters. The lowest order of life in these reaches is the moldlike mycoplankton. This is composed of unicellular life, most of it capable of converting the frozen water and carbon dioxide and suspended minerals into proteoids. Other members of the plankton live off the majority and are called simply proteophages. As the mycoplankton migrate through and over the glacistrata in search of minerals they provide food for the grazers. The grazers in turn are food for the teeming populations of the moderate zones, which invade the tundras during the brief "summer" period. The circle is completed when the wastes and decaying bodies of the teratohippus, and of the hunters who die during summer forages, supply a continuous source of minerals for the mycoplankton. The teratohippus thus is only ope link in the vast food chain of IF the northern tundras which is so important in maintaining the seemingly overpopulated animal and plant existence of the Betulian equatorial regions. Or rather, a portion of a link -- expendable from a purely systems viewpoint. Xcan you hear me?" "Yes, Dr. Verd, Your transmission is coming in clearly. Where are you now?" "I'm in the cavity. It's extraordinarily large. Larger than any such we've seen before. Big enough to shelter all of us." she looked around. Her knuckles were slightly tender from hitting the impertinent Dr. Smirg. Maybe I shouldn't have, she thought, but he deserved it. The chamber was arched, about forty meters high in the center. It widened abruptly as one came in through the tiny aperture and extended about twelve or thirteen meters along the creature's dorsum until it narrowed again into a series of pulsating holds that she took to be air-intake pipes -- nostrils. The material of the walls and bottom seemed to be similar to the skeletal armor outside. It was hard and only porous enough for heat transfer. Where the sides sloped down and met the "floor" lay a strange phenomenon, something she had not seen in any other teraciae. The hard skeletal material gave way almost at the corner and became gray, fleshy. With her light she was able to make out several pools of liquid there. She decided not to explore further until she received assistance. The radio interrupted her observations. "Dr. Verd, would you give us an atmosphere reading, please?" "Certainly, I'm sorry." She plugged the small scanning device into her transmitter, pressed the switch. "I'm scanning now. What's the good word?" Dr. Haicint's voice came through the speaker: "Temperature reading -- eighteen degrees." She heard a voice in the background pipe in: "eighteen, that's almost room temperature -- " "Atmosphere, nontoxic," Dr. Hiacint continued. "Oxygen reading is too low to maintain life but high enough so our nasalators will be sufficient. Dr. Verd, you may disconnect your climatization unit but continue using oxygen until we get there' with a supply of nasalators." "Fine. Will we have enough oxygen supplies?" "At those levels we could last several months. Food could get to be a problem. We'll abandon the ship now and join you. We'll take along all the oxygen and food supplies we have. How difficult is entry?" "It's an easy slope, no worse than some of the hills out on the tundra. The creature is moving away from the ship, but very slowly." "Fine, we'll join you there shortly." F or just a moment she had the peculiar sensation that her young were inside her again, but the great squirming and moving around were missing and none of her milk had been touched. The single sensation was there, but it was not substantiated by other sensations, so it must have been in error. This was not a usual occurrence for a teratohippus, but her survival will was strong. She decided to move more rapidly. The strange sensation made her think of the young ones waiting for her back in the nest. They would need the milk she had been manufacturing throughout her circular eating journey. ' She must reach them before they came out. Or they would die. Her head turned a little more toward the nest and her motile muscles speeded up their cycle of contractions. She was going home. or heard the movement above. She flashed her light upon the forward wall (opposite the cavity entrance) and saw high above a row of throbbing tendons -- wirelike strands -- lying close to the wall and interwoven upon themselves. There were far too many to count. They stretched about two meters from a point ;at the highest peak of the ceiling to a long, narrow opening just above the creature's nostrils. The throbbing seemed to be irregularly paced. When her light flashed across the weird assembly of strands, those on the right side seemed to be throbbing wildly. She started to step closer to explore the phenomenon, then thought better of it. Perhaps she should wait until the Dr. Hiacint arrived. The function of the tendons made three mysteries about this beast. She had some ideas, but they seemed farfetched. Dr. Hiacint would corroborate her theories or clear up the uncertainties. She went through the problems again in her mind. Why was this chamber so much larger than other similar ones she knew of? IF What was the purpose of the pools of fluid on the edge of the chamber? And what were those piano wires against the anterior wall? She unstrapped the heating unit from her back, placed it on the floor and sat down upon it. She had a while to wait. Ill they were heavily loaded with equipment. They had enough oxygen for several months, thanks to the nasalators -- the type that strapped around the neck. The flattened tube that curved across the cheekbone and fed oxygen into the left nostril would be uncomfortable but necessary. Emergency rations they had for quite a few days, but the only communications equipment consisted of small transceivers in the EV suits, plus one small transmitter Stef Chambelan had salvaged from the ship. He hoped to make use of the unused power cells in the EV suits to get it operating at least on a line-of-sight basis. Dr. Hiacint had his Prolyzer, of course, and Dr. Dalmat had scrounged up every scanning device he could find and carry. Dalmat's concern was less for survival than for the gathering of knowledge. As a documentarian. he lived in a worldf-a. Immortality lay for him' #ifhin a vast and well-arranged array of facts that would be used and appreciated by' future scientists. Compared with that, what had mere life to offer? The archivalists were quite meek by now. The shock of approaching death had knocked all the pomposity out of them. Their work rewarded them well -- but only during their lifetimes. They were frightened and carried their share of supplies from the ship. They also carried an unbelievable number of legal documents related to Betul. If they had any real dedication it was to the furtherance of Earth's supremacy in interspace law -- documents were proof and proof was essential to law. Chambelan mounted a simple video-scanner on the surface armor of the teratohippus, then settled down to his transmitter. The three astrobiologists began a systematic exploration of their new home. W do you think of it?" they ate their first day's rations. It had been a hard day and much was still unanswered. While the biologists had been examining the cavity little had been spoken. Hiacint thought a moment before he answered. "I'm sure my conclusions will be the same as yours, Dr. Verd. I would say that the size of the cavity and the pools of fluid are related to each other. But the 'pihno wires' as you call them are another thing entirely. Don'i you agree?" think I know what the first two mean, but the third has me stumped." "All right, you tell me what the first two are and I'll tell you what the third is." "You know?" "I think I know. But first things first." her mind before she uttered them, then spoke carefully. "I'd say that the large size of the cavity means that it is used for some other purpose besides breathing -- though it certainly serves as a breathing chamber, too. The pools of fluid provide a clue to that purpose. They seem to me to have only one possible use -- to feed the young of the creature." Smirg cut in; "You mean that stuff is milk?" "Just as in terrestrial mammals, except there are no mammae. I would guess that the fluid is created and stored here during a feeding cycle and the young feed on it during a nursing cycle that comes next." "This place we're in is a kind of womb?" Smirg again. He was looking around in awe. "Yes, a womb or a nursing chamber. She probably carries the young here during the next cycle, as I said, while she feeds. That would explain the extraordinarily high temperature. This cavity would also serve as protection for the young -- both from predators and from the cold. They probably stay in here until they develop considerable size and are equipped with armor sufficient for life outside." Smirg was looking at the tiny aperture. "If they get very large how in the world to they get out through that opening?" Hiacint said, "There are two possible answers. First, the opening-just like the human vagina -- might expand enough to let the young escape. The second, and I think the more plausible, answer is that the opening doesn't expand, but that the parent teratohippus is gradually consumed in the process of nursing and the young merely break their way out of the parent's carcass when the process is completed. Wouldn't you agree. Dr. Verd?" , IF hadn't thought about it, but I believe you must be right. She probably is destroyed in the process of 'giving birth.'" Smirg looked a little upset at the thought. "But what about the male, does he krap on living while the female dies?" were smiling. "I don't think we'll find that there is a male," Hiacint said. "But you call this creature 'she.' " "Merely a euphemism, a term we've carried over from our terrestrial experience. I believe these creatures are asexual. The young are exact copies of the parents. But the functions we are describing here more closely resembles that of the Earth female than of the male, so I think we're justified in referring to the animal as a female." how many young do you estimate there are?" "Judging by the number of pools. I'd say no more than four. There could be only one, of course, but I doubt it. The species would not last long on a one-to-one natal basis with the parent dying at childbirth." "But what about the third phenomenon, the 'piano wires'? You said you had the solution to that." "I believe I do." Dr. Hiacint said. "This creatnriital. If it originally were a ture, as I think it was, it prpbab had an endoskeletal structure to begin with. I'm guessing that with the genetic change -- due not only to exigency but to massive gamma radiation from the dying star (this planet's sun) that caused the change in the planet -- the central motor elements of the creature were trapped in a middle position. Because they controlled movement they could not exist completely externally, but with the eons-long shift to an external skeleton they could not remain within the animal. I believe those wires up there are the mechanical motor control elements of teratohippus. They link' the brain with the muscular structure." "This means," Dalmat said, "that the teratohippus can be controlled by any person who could discover the meaning and function of each of those strands." "Like a puppet, you mean?" asked Smirg. "Not like a puppet -- but as animate beings are controlled -- " "That program you wel'e working on, Dalmat, did you complete it?" Hiacint and Dalmat had worked together for many years and they almost read each other's minds. "Yes. Using the information Dr. Vcrd gave us on the movement of the tendons when the teratohippus changed directions -- and feeding in all the available data on the anatomy of the animal -- I have been able to identify at least those strands that control direction. We should now be able to divert the animal from its present course and direct it toward the temperate zone." Silence fell -- the silence of immense relief -- as Dalmat continued: "From my calculations -- bas on Dr. Hiacint's data, of course -- I estimate it will take about two and a hlf Earth months to reach a sufficiently southern position for a Mayday message to get through to Betulbase with lineof-sight broadcast." Chambelan broke in. "But what about food? I don't think our present supply will last even with the strictest rationing." "We should be able to use the teratohippus not only for transportation but also for sustenance," Hiacint said. "We'll be able to supplement our present rations with the 'milk' of the creature. My tests show it to be nontoxic. It probably won't taste very good, but I think it will keep us alive." "But will the food be digestible? After all, we're dealing with an alien biological system." "True, the substance contains proteoids not normally used by humans, but Dr. Verd and I have had a great deal of experience with this type of thing. I think we should be able shortly to produce enough artificial enzymes to allow us all to get the food we need. Here again the taste of the enzymes may not be the best, but survival itselfis at stake." No one spoke for a while. The very concept was strange. To ride a living mountain to safety. To use the feeble strength of one human hand to turn and direct a creature as long as a football field. Finally Dalmat stood up. He took a sketch he had drawn and some wire and walked to the front of the creature. The others followed self-consciously, Hiacint holding a light for Dalmat. Using Chambelan's shoulders, Dalmat clambered to a point where he could reach the left side of the field of strands. "These motor control elements seem to be, reversed. The left group controls the right side of the animal and vice versa." He picked out a group of about ten or twelve and tied the wire around them. Drawing it tight, he threw the end to Hiacint, who anchored it firmly to the "floor" with a small spike. "This should make the animal bin a slow turn to the right, back toward the south. In a few days we'll alter the wire to straighten IF out her course. Then we'll be headed to safety. With our data plotter we'll be able to keep a running record of general position and make changes as they are needed." He brushed off his hands and looked at his work. "Not a bad job for a documentarian." S HE felt her muscles tense involuntarily and then she realized she was moving toward the right. This could not be. She was moving away from her young. She could not do that. She must turn back. She flexed her muscles as best as she could, but she continued to move to the right. Her young. What would happen to her young? But then the sensation that her young were already within her womb was stronger now. Could it be? But no -- she still should not be moving toward the right. She had turned right on her first two cycles, as was proper. For this and for the nursing cycles, she must move to the left. Something was wrong, but there was nothing she could do about it. She continued grazing -- as she must. She continued trying to turn to the left, as she must. She continued her steady pace, as she must. But the parental instinct cried within her with all the anguish of a species' need. humans sat in the middle of the chamber, weary and impatient. Chambelan was twisting the dials on his transmitter, making another futile effort to reach someone with a Mayday. Smirg poured a vial of black liquid over a bowl of grayish paste and ate it with a spoon. It was peculiarly sweet -- something, he thought, like a rotten mango. It was night and the creature -- as was its wont -- had stopped its feeding until daybreak. The temperature outside was infinitely colder than anything on Earth but the inside temperature had dropped imperceptibly. to the rest, looking at the gasping nostrils lit up by the shadowy light of the group's single functioning lattern. Finally she could stand it no more. "Don't you feel the weeping?" she asked. "Weeping?" It was Parapet. "What weeping?" "The subtle shudder that she makes these days, a shudder that wasn't there when we first found her. I think she's weeping for her children that will probably die." Parapet turned to Dr. Hiacint. "I think she's cracking under the strain. Don't you have any medicine to give her?" The professor's glance at Parapet showed pure contempt. "She's not cracking up. She's right, you know. My instruments show a definite change in the teratohippus. 'Weeping' may not be the right word, but it's pretty close. We have warped this creature's existence, slain her children and now, perhaps, we are leading her to a certain death." "But is it right. Professor?" for us to do this terrible thing? Wt are destroying not only a generation of these beings, we are leading this one -- the creature that has been our salvation -- into an environment that must kill her, to predators that will rip her to shreds, to a place where there will be no more food for her to eat. How can we justify our own existence with that crime over our heads?" "Survival." Parapet's face writhed with emotion. "Survival -- in this situation, we are the conquerors. For all time, on every planet and between planets, the conquerors -- the strongest, the most intelligent, the craftiest -- were the survivors and the weak paid with their own destruction. Whether it be tribe or species or man-to-man, it is right and just for the strong to destroy." "My God, man, your vicarious experience of interplanetary power has made you absolutely insane." The speaker was Smirg. His attack on a fellow archivalist brought astonishment to every face. "The strong have not always destroyed the weak -- not when strength was coupled with  intelligence, for strength can by augmented by the aid of the weak. The butchers of all time -- the Huns of our Earth and the Achobests of space, for example -- have conquered only to a point and then in turn been destroyed by the civilizations that utilized all elements, strong and weak, to form strength by unity. What Miss Verd is trying to ask is: is there another way? Can we save both ourselves and this creature?" sor. "Isn't there a way?" He shook his head. "Both Dalmat and I have tried to find a solution. We've worked out model after model. But every way we look at it, either we must die or the teratohippus and its brood must die. There is no way to save all." She turned her face again to the semidarkness. She spoke softly and as if by rote, as if she had rehearsed each word: "Then we must go on for another month, feeling the intense sorrow of a parent for its children? We must sit here and do nothing while this great creature slowly dies? We must try to wipe out from our minds and our conIF sciences the thought of the teratohippids out there somewhere dying?" "I guess we must." Smirg walked over and took her hand. She did not object. And the shuddering seemed to each of them to become more intense. reaches of the tundra, within a neat cavern dug into the side of a frozen rill, lay three neat round shells. Giant cocoon in which young life was stiring. The time had come. Genetics willed that they must come out, to creep into the warm womb of their parent. The shells shook with the struggle to escape. A crack in each in turn let in the frozen atmosphere and movement stopped. The mouth of the cavern, normally covered by thje warm body of the parent teratohippus was open to the chill world. There were no further struggles and no cries. The strong had won. The weak were dead. Somewhere far away a weeping mountain knew the time had come and passed. And continued its involuntary way toward the land where vespertosauri and sciuropteroids would soon feast on its remains. # COiy. At Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Principal Speaker: John Brunner. For information: Sanford Meschkow, # Larchwood Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. bassador Hotel, Los Angeles, California. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. Featured speakers: Gene Roddenberry, creator of Star Trek; Ray Bradbury, author of Fahrenheit #, The Illustrated Man, The Martian Chronicles; Robert Bloch, author of Psycho, The House That Dripped Blood; Kirk Alyn, the "Superman" of movie serials and Forrest J. Ackerman, editor Famous Monsters of Filmland. Highlights: screenings of film classics, exhibits, panels, banquet. For information: Fantasy Film Fans International, Box #, Los Angeles, California #. The alien gave him a game to play -- and one chance to win! T he Terrans have poker and horses and wheels. The Kalidar have shausta. That would be fine, except that on Kalidar home territory you only play shausta, period. Poker? With the Kalidar? You might as well spit on their flag. So there's half of the basics of interplanetary gambling. The other half comes later. Now, I take my living from Sanka Maru, a Japanese ship on the Kalidar run, but times have changed and a merchant doesn't sign on cutthroats any more. I'm a junior navigator and have been for five years. Promotion is slow on an Asian ship, especially for Caucasians. It's one of those things you learn to put up with and cheerfully, too, all things considered. The pay level's good -- I might get promoted -- and twice a year I see the Kalidar. Forget about shausta, and the Kals are great people to know. Their physical appearance helps, of course. Any one of them could visit Earth and pass himself off as a Terran if he really wished to. There are enough odd Terrans around to make almost any Kal look nearly normal. As a people they average a half-head shorter than the average human, have higher, flatter cheekbones and beakish noses. As I recall, there was some chortling about their low foreheads when pictures first reached our enlightened world, but something the pictures didn't show was how far back the Kalidar skull goes. I don't enjoy deflating egos, but their actual cranial cavity is somewhere around a quarter again larger than ours. That's something worth our thinking about. What really wins us to the Kals, though, is pity. Imagine how you would take to being packed into some glorified refrigerator on board an unproven settlement ship and having yourself fired at some obscure dot on the edge of the intergalactic abyss. Furthermore, picture yourself arriving at your new Eden after a hundred years or so, only to find it aswarm with ratty humanoids busy calling themselves the only intelligent race in the universe. Yes, pity. The Kalidar situation is pathetic, and humanity goes wild over things like that. That's why we're so wonderful and that's why we let them have Mars. So there are two big pluses for the Kalidar -- they look like us and are pitiful. Other than that, one can put away a sizable fortune selling Kalidar merchandise back home, which helps us like each other economywise, too. That leaves only one more good reason for interracial amity between us and the Kals -- or it seems good to me. The Kalidar aren't perfect. I know that doesn't sound like much, but after years of comicbook indoctrination, humanity had been expecting First contact with some wildly Superior beings who would make us feel that the plug had been pulled on our lappy little world. It didn't work oit that way. T here are enough things morally, socially and technologically wrong with the Kalidar to leave us feeling smugly superior as long as we ignore things morally, socially and technologically wrong with humanity. For instance, the Kals have narcotics, violence and thieves. Beyond that, they have been known to cheat in business deals and, most importantly for me, they have a penchant for games of chance. Now what could be much more human than that? So you see. I'm back to shausta already. Shausta is the Kalidar game of chance. It is largely mathematical. It is easy to learn, harder to play, easiest to lose at. It is also well worth one's trying and it deserves some explanation, seeing that I'm writing about it. For the best that I can offer we have to go back some five years. That was when I was on my first run, had laid foot on Martian soil for the first time ever and was as green a novice as Sanka Maru had ever seen. I was also as green a novice as Nathaniel Sanderson, Caucasian and mere cargo lugger for fifteen years, had ever seen or wished to. Sanderson was a veteran of the Kalidar run. He had signed on the first ship out and as a result of his lengthy experience he knew as much about the Kalidar as any man alive when he retired. And before that golden day arrived he passed on to me much of what he had learned. He started the night we grounded -- with shausta. "You might as well start learning the ropes now," he said. "It'll take a long time." "Sure," I answered. "Whatever you say." We had become friends on the journey out on a basis of one-sided respect. "We'll start with shausta," he said. "It'll do you the most good in the least time and it isn't hard. If you're the average crewman and want some port life once you've grounded you play shausta until you've made some friends among the Kals. Furthermore, if youHe an offworlder and want to make some friends shausta's the only way to fly. Got that?" "Yes," I said, wondering what this thing was. "Shausta is Kalidar poker," IF continued Sanderson, answering my question by chance. "It's different, of course,-but it's a game of chance -- like rolling dice. "The only thing is that shausta's mathematical. Here's the setup. "To start with you've got the First Caller. When a round opens this character spouts a number -- let's say ten. Then his assistant, the Action Determiner, pulls an action card from a pile on the floor in front of him. In shausta you sit on the floor, see? Now, the action card has a mathematical process on it -- addition, subtraction, etcetera, on up to cubing. And here's the gamble part of it. You, the player, don't get to see the action card. That's a privilege reserved for the Determiner. "Okay. Once you've got your first number and a card has been pulled, the Second Caller gives you another number. It can be anything as long as it's rational. The First Caller can give you an irrational if he feels like it. You following me?" "Good. Now here's the game. You make a stab at what action was pulled for you and work it out in your head. The First Caller gave you ten. The Second Caller gives you thirteen. What do you say?" I thought for a moment. "Twenty-three," I said. "You lose." Sanderson grinned. "Your action card was multiplication. What's more, cvcaif you get the right action but don't come up with the exact answer of, say, the square root of thirteen divided by nine-eighteenths, you lose. That means your figuring had better be on the beam -- you've only got two minutes. Overstep the time limit and you lose. In the beginning the numbers are simple -- you don't hit irrationals and stuff until the stakes start getting high. Stakes always start ojut low and it's in incredibly bad taste to wager more than a hundred. If by some chance your action card is squaring or cubing the Action Determiner holds up a clenched fist. That's to tell the Second Caller not to give you another number and you square or cube the one you already have. That's the game -- except for one more official, usually a computer that works out the problem you've been given. His -- its -- word is law. If your answers don't match you lose. Simple as that. All you need to do is keep your head and think clearly. It's errors in figuring that usually show who comes out on top. The drawing business is all chance and players average about the same number of right or wrong guesses, usually wrong. "You ready to play?" "No," I said, too quickly. "Didn't think so," he agreed. "But come along and watch. Maybe you'll think differently by the time we leave." "Maybe," I echoed. So we went. things about shausta and the Kalidar that Sanderson had neglected to tell me. For one, shausta could not have been a worse game for the Kalidar to play. Can you imagine any Earthside gambler with enough faith in his own intelligence to add figuring out equations in two minutes flat to the already risky element of chance in a game? I can't -- and that's why I was worried about shausta. I felt that any race crazy enough to invent such a gamble must be a race of mathematical wizards. And I couldn't have been more wrong. The Kalidar I met that night were more like mathematical slugs, so much so that by the time we left I was sure an unhampered Terran could run rings around most any one of them. But I suppose you caught that modifier -- "unhampered." The Kalidar played dirty. The Kalidar played background music. Such background music you have never heard. Maybe you think that some oriental tunes sound alien to the Caucasian ear and vice versa. I do and I have evidence from the other side. It's taken me five years to get used to what Sanka Manias captain pipes over the intercoms at night -- for me it's one of those things that you learn to live with, like slow promotions. But the stuff that the Kalidar play is alien to where you can feel it like a brick. Considering the importance of the tachika style to interplanetary gambling. I'll go into some detail. First of all, the music is always played in shausta houses nd it's always played live by a husband-andwife team. These two characters are extraordinary in themselves, fanatically devoted to their .music and generally semistarved. They double on the instruments -- two large recorders, one small one and a snaredrum-proportioned percussion piece -- but at least one of the the big recorders is always in use, giving what is best described as the melody line. The music starts. Every piece opens the same way, with the man taking a shuddering breath and blowing the lowest possible note for the longest possible time. Then, eyes bulging, he nips a quick breath and shoots chromatically up and down his range in maybe ten seconds, which isn't to say that his range is short but that he's playing somewhat faster than sixty-fourth notes. Then you know the concert has begun. The man gives another no IF long low note, this one accompanied by wife on percussion -- and next the world between your ears erupts in a burst of what I understand is sheer improvisation along standard themes that will last anywhere from a quarter to a halfhour, whereupon both musicians collapse, clawing for air and water, only to start up again immediately after. If you were a lover of music I suppose you could learn to love this. I don't mind it myself as long as I'm not doing anything, since strange as it seems, tachika is a superb tranquilizer. The only problem is, they always play it during rounds of shausta and if you're doing the gaming youll soon find that you can't think clearly, that numbers get lost somewhere below your cranium and over your eyes and that you lose whatever bet you made. That's what I mean by the Kalidar's playing dirty. Tachika brings you down to the same mathematical plane they inhabit and maybe below it. When Sanderson and I left the action that night I was positive I could play the game, but I was equally sure that tachika would give me hell when I tried. Of course, there's more to this tachika than I've mentioned -- one more important thing must be covered. Kalidar music is partly built around silence. For a climax they don't always use a crescendo -- sometimes they use nothing, There you are, listening, as the scales wail up and sob down and suddenly -- nothing. Dead silence. Except that if the prelude has been handled well your mind is still hearing the rhythm and abandons everything. It closes in on that mental pounding, since you are in a shocking pool of silence and there's nothing else to grab hold of. The pounding in your head gets louder and louder until it threatens to split your skull like an overblown balloon. You feel the tension straining every bone and muscle and when the recorders suddenly howl out again in the middle of a phrase at ten times the volume they started out with you don't even notice thent -- they are quieter than what your mind has been giving you and you know the climax came in that silence you could taste like a scum in your mouth. A tachika piece usually onds pretty quickly after that bubble breaks. Like I said, it's alien. B ut as I was also saying, I was  worried about how tachika would effect my playing and I was doubly worried since I had just seen it affect Sanderson's. I knew that a genius he was not, but I also knew that he should have done better than he did and I couldn't understand why he hadn't asked for silence while he played, so I asked him. "Grissom," he said heavily, "there's something you had better learn and quickly. It's a sort of Golden Rule and I hoped you'd learn it while serving on a Japanese ship. But I guess hot. So here it is. Don't question an alien custom. Tolerate it. You don't need to like it, but you have no business attacking it. You had just better learn to live with it. You understand that?" "Yes," I said stubbornly. "But suppose it's not a custom. What if the Kals mixed tachika and shausta after they found tachika puts us into a coma? They must know it does that." Sanderson nodded. "Maybe, but ours not to question why -- ours but to do or die. They say it's custom so we take their word forjt. Period." And that was that. We didn't talk anymore that night since custom had skinned one Nathaniel Sanderson and had really skinned him bad. And so here I am, five years later and getting pretty good at shausta myself and with a bit of evidence to back up my old friend's beliefs. That bit of evidence constitutes the second half of necessary interplanetary gambling knowledge. I learned it the hard way, but I think I'll spare you the pains. This is what happened three years ago on Sanderson's last run and my fourth. Sanderson knew it was his last run and had decided to spend his last evening before we spaced with old friends. This left me on my own. So I went to a shausta house and put myself into the running. "Greetings," welcomed Tarran, the proprietor. "It is good to see Grissom. Sanka Maru spaces tomorrow and we will not see Grissom for many months. Enjoy this evening for us." "I'Jl do my best," I answered as I paid the entrance fee. "Pm sorry I haven't been in more often." "This way, Grissom," he said without other comment -- pleasantries had been dispensed with at the door. "Will please you to follow?" In a shausta house the proprietor is god. I followed. He led me to the gaming room and held open heavy, cast doors. He followed me in and the tongue of light our entrance had made disappeared. My sight went black and I struggled to adjust. I had no trouble picking out the red smudge pots hanging over every gaming post, but the fades below them remained tinted smears in the dark. Only the tachika players could be seen clearly, the twin white candles they IF played by providing the needed light. "There is one here who would play you, Grissom," whispered Tarran. "Have you objections?" "No," I whispered back, still trying to pick out details. It couldn't hurt. I knew no one here and if someone knew me, fine. Besides, Kalidar custom says that you accept a seating request. With a surety that my own confounded eyes found amazing, Tarran picked his way through the floor-seated throng and brought me to one of the red smudge pots. Only one shadowed figure sat at this one, not counting the gaming officials, but there was an unoccupied cushioi. I sat down. "Welcome, Grissom," whispered my opposite. "I am happy to see you tfore you space." T hat voice was the first really pleasant surprise of the whole three-month run. It belonged to the one Kalidar on Mars I could almost consider a friend. He had a small mine in the outback and since I hadn't met him portside I had assumed he was out working it. It seemed that I was wrong. "Lyrr," I said, too loudly for the heavy atmosphere. "This is a good meeting! When did you get in?" A toothy grin flashed in the dark. "Today, Grissom. I hear the Maru has grounded and hurry -- but the desert is wide and my crawler breaks down. I have to walk!" I returned the grin. Pleasant surprise number two: he had come all the way in from his claim to see me. Sanderson's circle of acquaintances had stirred my envy, but maybe, if my luck held, I might have one of my own. I started to speak, but as fate or whatever would have it, I didn't finish. A rich bass wail cut i. through the murk and a tachika piece began. "Players," hissed the First Caller. "The placing of bets. You will decide who begins." I looked at Lyrr. I could make out his face after a fashion, but his eyes still hid in pockets of shadow. I motioned for him to take the first round. He nodded and pulled out his credit sack. I matched him with my wallet. "Three darro, Grissom?" he whispered. Three darro. About a dollar. I nodded. He smiled. "The first number?" he asked and, as if in answer, the tachika recorder scuttled over its full range and the piece began in earnest. Tension made its first appearance. "Four," said the First Caller. The Action Determiner pulled a card. "Six," said the Second Caller. Lyrr thought for a moment, then grinned at me. "Twenty-four," he said. The computer, accepting card and punched-in numbers, clicked once. The screen went green and formed a ten. Lyrr gave me three darro credits and it was my turn. When the computer dispensed its answer I returned the notes. That set the pace for the evening. One tachika piece ended; another began. The second ran down and a third filled the void. The bets became higher, the problems harder. I made my first calculating mistake, Lyrr his second. At no point did we stay more than ten darro richer or poorer than when we began. The tachika made me stumble on simple irrationals and before I knew it the irrationals were complex, with bets pushing two hundred and forty, two hundr and fifty, two hundred and sixty darro. I began to sweat. I began to sweat badly. Heck, I began to drip! "The quantity three times the square root of one hundred and seventy-one over twenty-three," said the First Caller and I got out a twohundred seventy note. "The square root of eighteen over the square root of twenty-three," said the First Caller and I got it back.  had been playing some two and a half hours. If I could get the next one right I would be up some ninety dollars. If I lost -- well, Lyrr would be happy. With a shock I remembered that I had never pushed over eighty before. "The quantity five times the square root of twenty-seven over the quantity the square root of three," proposed the First Caller. "Thirteen," said the second. I breathed in. It didn't sound too hard, not hard at all provided I guessed the right action. I breathed oiit. It was multiplication. Believe me, I knew! I started figuring. The square root of twenty-seven breaks down into three times the square root of threcr -- three times five is fifteen -- clear the bottom root by squaring and multiply the numerator by the square root of three. Fifteen times three over three -- forty-five over three -- fifteen! I had it! I was invincible! And then, suddenly, the tachika music stopped. But it was really only the sound that had stopped. It was a silent crescendo -- one of the silent crescendos. I thought I hadn't been listening closely enough -- I had willed myself not to -- but it was a vain hope. The tachika rhythm began sounding in my head, and with infuriating speed my mind closed in on it. Up and down, over and around, up and IF thirteen times fifteen is up and down and the first beat of silence washed into me, turning my spine into ice and the up and down and beat number two sent my skeleton freezing clear out to the nerves and the down and around and the third squashed my mind into jelly and so help me God, I couldn't think! Forty seconds left and I couldn't think! The fourth beat crested, worse than before. I felt myself explode. "Stop that damned music," I shouted. It stopped. Dead. I hdd just about twenty seconds to spare. Forty-five plus one hundred and fifty, I figured. "One-hundred and ninety-five," I said, and the computer confirmed it. Lyrr passed me two-hundred and seventy darro credits. I smiled., I was alone in that. The First Caller watched from behind his red-mask face. He motioned toward the tachika players. "No," I said and their instruments stopped halfway. , "Grissom," whispered Lyrr. "No," I repeated. "No music." I was ninety dollars in the black. I was going to stay there. To youknow-where with Sanderson's rule. No Kal connivers were, going to skin me that night. Even  Lyrr, friendly, grinning, deceitful Lyrr, finally had turned against me. Ever hear of gold fever? T HE First Caller regarded me solemnly. He rose and spoke to the players. The hiss of the Kalidar tongue drifted back across the room. The two gaunt musicians laid their recorders aside. Thty extinguished their candles and came to stand in the darkness around us. I became aware of a shifting center of attention. Our gaming post was collecting an audience. Fine, I thought. They deserve to watch. "Two hundred and eighty-five dapro, Lyrr?" I suggested...he mask of his face let no emotion slip. "Yes," he whispered. "Two hundred and eighty-five" The tension began to build. Ninety-five dollars. Couldn't get much higher. "Seventy-three and fifty-six hundredths," said the First Caller. The Action Determiner pulled his card. He raised a clenched fist and Lyrr had his first power probleni. My mind raced, no longer restrained by tachika. Lyrr was good, but he wasn't a genius. He would probably square his number and hope. That was what I would have done. I don't know if the Kalidar pray. "Three hundred and ninety-eight thousand thirty-ight and five hundred seventy-four thousand I gaped. I was only part way through figuring it out for myself, but I could already see he had cubed it. My jaw swayed a little farther then. Only twenty seconds had flown. The computer agreed with him -- #. I paid up uneasily. It was graphically clear that Lyrr was a genius with squares and cubes. This was his first such problem for the evening and now I was five in the red. In the next round I would probably slap myself further. "Grissom," whispered Lyrr. "Two hundred and eighty-five darro?" He wasn't increasing the bet. That suited me fine and I nodded. "Negative sixty-three and seventy-two hundredths," said the First Caller. I went a hundred in the red. But averages cut both ways. Lyrr would pull me out. I raised the bet by three darro and he agreed reluctantly. He had no choice. When the shock waves died down I owed him one hundred and ninetysix dollars. I had to write an I.O.U. "Two hundred and eighty-eight darro?" he suggested slowly. I think he would have reduced it if custom hadn't stood in the way. I accepted. Then divine providence stepped in. I got out the right answer with seconds to spare. The debt became smaller and. the averages were overwhelmingly bad for Lyrr. "Three hundred darro," I hissed and we hit the highest ceiling. There was no grin from the other side. "Ninety-two and twenty-nine thousandths," whispered the First Caller. "Twenty-seven and one hundred and three thousandths," breathed the Second. A general inhalation rose from the shadows around us. The whole house was watching. Lyrr sat in silence, his eyes still hidden in black pockets, but the red mask was creased and damp. My foot was falling asleep with nettle-like tingles. "Two thousand four hundred and ninety-four and two hundred sixtyone thousand nine hundred and not looking up. The computer verified his figure -- # -- and the game ended in bedlam.  I.O.U. and made my way out of Somehow I remembered how the low-pressure air-lock worked and remembered to turn on my respirator before breathing the nearIF vacuum outside. Then I was walking away from the shausta house, moving numbly toward the port, where floodlights lent a carnival air to the loading of Sanka Afaru. "Grissom," said a voice. Lyrr, of course. I stumbled on without looking up. I could barely hear his feet hitting the sand beside me. "Grissom." He sighed, accepting a bad loser. "I wish to return your money." "No," I growled. "Yes," he said. "Money gained by cheating is not worth one's keeping. I return it." The bills pressed into my fist. ! took them automatically. "Grissom," continued Lyrr, "is not surprising you think we are cheaters. Tachika dulls you and because you see us figure badly you think we are trying to gain an advantage. But you are wrong. Tachika came to the shausta house long before the Kalidar came to Mars. It is only to make things fair." I was listening uncomfortably. "Sanderson, he got angry one time, too. I was not there, but the story stays. He stopped the tachika and was beaten as you were. Then we Kalidar thought it fun, but we have since learned differently. It is cheating to use something another has not, even if you are born with it. "Grissom, we Kalidar are good with numbers, as you can see, but there is something more. Among ourselves we are also telepaths. We can try to shut out errant thoughts, but even so, when the Action Determiner looks at a card, in my head I know what action he sees. That is why we have tachika. It dulfs you, but it dulls us even more and it screens out telepathy to make shausta a game instead of an exercise. It is not to dull humans, but to dull the Kalidar." I stopped and looked at him. "You know, Lyrr?" I said. "I've been a fool. What Sanderson said wasn't drivel." He couldn't understand me, but he grinned regardless. I could see his eyes now in the glare from the port and they certainly weren't grim. "Grissom," he said, "when does Sanka Afaru space? Early or late in the morning?" "Neither," I told him. "Middle of the afternoon." "Then come," he said abruptly. "Rest at my home this evening. There is time in the morning for you to get back and there is much I need to know of Earth -- what customs not to break in chanceplaying!" So I went home with him and taught him poker.  I "Earn your daily bonus and commission or etee." Fisk Centers rolled over groggily. "Else what?"  "This." An avalanche of icy foam descended on his head. He struggled up, gasping for breath, suddenly wide awake. "What was that for?" "Well, I did warn you," she said contritely. "You look like a walrus surfacing." "Nonsense. I don't have tusks." "A toothless walrus, then. Fat, wet, stupid -- " "You're about to look like a spanked brat." "No time," she said. "Bolt your food, Fisky. Today you go to work for your living." "What makes you so sure I'll have any better luck today than I've had all week?" "Because you handled the week. I set up today. While you snored." "I should have stayed single," Fisk muttered as he stumbled to the suiter and let it dry and dress him. "Or at least gotten married. The last thing any sane man would do is become an adoptive father to a pre-teen hellion." "Right," she agreed. "Especially when he has to live off her money." "That's my money! Twenty per cent Coitmrlision just for -- " the Uack mar-" "S#it up." He stepped out of the suiter, resplendent in blue jeans, checkered shirt and goggles. "What did you do to the setting?" he roared. "You look just right for your job," she said. "Hurry up." He tore off the goggles. "My job-oihg what?" "Selling cars, of course." "Cars? I'm no mechanic -- " "That's all you know. Dad. Salesmen don't have to know anything about the workings. Just believe in your product and sell, sell, seU!" Fisk punched a soy omelet. "Believe in my product? I haven't even driven a car for five years." He took a bite, but paused before masticating it. "What car am I supposed to sell?" "Fusion. They've got a real nice commission deal -- " The mouthful of omelet sprayed over the table. "The atomic racer? The radioactive juggernaut that makes the obituary headlines every other week? The -- " "The same. They're making a play for the middle-class market and they need middle-class salesmen. Hot chance for you." "Hot? Listen, Yola -- do you realize that my annuities don't IF mature for another twenty-five years and are voided in the event of deliberate suicide? If I die tomorrow in a Fusion you inherit nothing." "Term life insurance," she answered. "That's their bonus. Life and commissions. You live off the commissions, of course. But if you die -- " "Enough, child. The longer I listen to you the worse I feel. I'm not going near any -- " "Suit yourself," she said. "We'll run out of money tomorrow." "Tomorrow? There's enough for at least another week." "You forget you have a family to support. Two don't live as cheaply as one, you know." She paused, serious and for the moment rather pretty in her brown-faced way. "Fisk, it's a good chance for you. I thought you'd really go for a decent income -- " Fisk sighed. "I'll talk to the man. But it had better be strictly salesroom. If I hhve to go near a living Fusion I'll resign on the spot." "Sure," she said. "Come on -- you're due to report in twenty minutes." the executive at Fusion Motors said briskly as Fisk introduced himself. "Your daughter here set it up. Glad to have a man of your experience with us." "Experience? I haven't -- " Yola tromped his toe and Fisk realized that she had invented suitable qualifications for him. Time to set that straight right now...He took a breath. "You're in the weekly Hurdle, starting at ten today," the man said. Fisk's breath wooshed out. "I beg your -- " The man guided him out through a service eit, led him into a massive garage filled with menacing machinery. "Bill, he's here." Fisk tried again. "Look, I don't know what she told you, but I'm not -- " "Here's your co-pilot. Bill. Bill, this is Fisk. Used to be with Ferrari before the antipolluters closed down their commercial branch. Drove in the antarctic crosscountry a couple times, maybe twenty years ago. Going to sell for us. I want him to get a real feel for the Fusion, but you'll have to carry the burden this time." "Great," Bill said, shaking Fisk's hand with a grip of steel and rubber. "Come on, Fisk. We've got just thirty-five minutes to blastoff and you'll need briefing." "But I -- " "Don't get me wrong," Bill said, hustling him along while Yola trotted excitedly behind. "I'm not putting down your experience. But there's been a lot of development in the past two decades and most of it has been led by Fusion. And the Hurdle is a real workout. If anything happens to me you'll have to take over -- because the finish line's the only safe exifc Ever drive over five hundred before?" "Well, I -- " Then it occurred to Fisk that BiU wasn't talking about distance and certainly not about regular highway travel. Stunned, he fumbled for a suitable way to set things straightjmmediately. Yola caught up. She smiled sweetly at Bill. "Can I come, too? I love racing -- " Bill looked at her with leathery compassion. "Sorry, kid No juniors allowed. This is a rough course and it changes every week. You'll have to watch it on the customer screen. Mine's the purple Eight." "Oh." She looked dangerously sullen, but fell back. "Bill, there's been a misunderstanding," Fisk said, already out of breath because of the pace Bill was setting through the monstrous garage. "I can't -- I never -- " "Here she is," Bill said proudly, puUing up at a tremendous sculptured vehicle with eight massive wheels. "Hop in. We'll get strapped while the tug takes her there. I'll brief you while we're-moving." He gave Fisk h powerful boost into the open cockpit. The moment the twp men landed in the firm molded seats, the tug started hauling the car out of its niche and down a ramp. Bill saw to Fisk's complex protective harness before attending to his own. "But I'm only supposed to be a salesman," Fisk protested. "I can't get involved in a race. I have absolutely no -- " "No problem. Boss always breaks in the new men like this. Idea is you don't need to know every detail about the car -- jfou just have to believe in it absolutely, and the details will take care of themselves. So we don't load you down with statistics and all that junk -- we just show you. Once you've raced the Fusion Special you're a believer." "But I'm trying to tell you that I don't know the first thing about -- " "Sure. The boss explained. You've never touched the Fusion before. And twenty years is a long, long time in racing. We'd have let you sit it out this week, but my regular co-pilot isn't out of the hospital yet. But I know you've got the stuff. I used to watch that antarctic cross-country when I was a kid. Those glaciers, those ice crevasses -- " He shook his head. "Hell, the hurdle isn't rougher than IF that. But it is different -- and you've got to ride it several times before you get the feel. So I'll drive and you just handle the map -- okay? Nobody tackles a new race in a new car cold." XXnod. At this point it almost seemed better to take the horrible ride and keep his mouth shut. At least the driver was competent and it would be a one-time experience. "Actually, that map is important," Bill said consolingly. "I can't take my eyes off the track when I'm at speed. They do it that way to make sure the race stays fair. New track for each run -- nobody knows the specific layout until the race starts and then he has to figure his strategy from the map. Yours is a necessary job and don't you doubt it for a moment. One misreading and we're dead." Fisk came to an abrupt decision -- he would blurt out the truth and get released from this race right now. "Bill, I -- " "I wouldn't drive without a mapman. My co-pilot tried that a couple weeks ago, when I was out at the last minute with intestinal grippe. You know -- bathroom every ten minutes, ready or not. Didn't dare drive. So he took it alone, because you can't get a replacement at the last moment and we didn't want our entry scratched. That' why he cradled up -- trying to read the map before he got of the tunnel -- " Bill shook his head. "Fifteen hours in surgery and he'll have to drive next time with a prosthetic hand and a plate ii) his skull. Ran over his insurance and he's got a family to support. That's why I have to rim a good race this time. Got to help him out." Fisk realized that if he spoke out now Bill would have no co-pilot. Then he would have either to take it alone, risking the same fate that had wiped out his partner, or drop out of the race entirely. Then his friend's medical bills would ruin his family. Fisk well understood the problems of financial ruin. He had been a moderately wealthy man not so long ago. Being broke was not a fate he would wish on anyone. "... true dual-purpose car,"'Bill was saying. He evidently liked to talk. "Motor's always at full power, of course, so the clutch guides it. Not the kind of clutch you knew, eh? No gearing. Just engage for the percentage of power you want. Depress gently and you've got a gentle touring car. Goose it and you've got a real racer. I use a model just like this for city traffic -- " What could Fisk do but stick with it? Racing terrified him and not just because of his health -- but more was riding on this race than his preferences... duplicate controls, but yours will be inactive. Except for the indicators -- you need to watch them in case of emergency. Regular steering wheel, you see; nothing complicated. Fusion's designed for the simple-minded -- that's why I like it. And over here -- " The tug was maneuvering the car into the starting stall. A giant chronometer above was ticking off the last seconds before the start. Fisk squitmed in his harness, feeling cold sweat on his palms, face and underarms. He hoped that the term insurance was for a large amount. "The map will fall into the fax hopper there as the gun goes off," Bill said. "Grab it and -- " . armored hull. Paper dropped. And the car ground forward with such authority that it was all Fisk could do to breathe. There was very little noise. Pollution-control had realty clamped down on loud sports jobs; both the hydrogenhelium fusion engine and the mercury vapor working fluid were almost silenu Also, it seemed, the cockpit was soundproof. Fisk had to admit it -- this was a nice piece of machinery. Competing cars shot out of their stalls. Blue, white, green, red yellow -- internal combustion, steam, electric, jet, atomic and assorted hybrids. The car industry had claimed that stifl antipollution standards would ruin it, but in fact they had led to a marvelous flbwering of superior new types. The money that had once been wasted on planned, obsolescence of style now went into improvement of mechanics. Drivers still had to buy a new car every three years, but now they obtained a superior product in each new model. And this was where that superiority was demonstrated -- in professional competition, using the cars sold in the showrooms. It was a drag race start: thirty bright vehicles straining forward on a ten-mile straightaway. No noise or fumes. Fisk sneaked a look at the speedometer. His duplicate was functioning, but it took him a moment to find the mph scale among the massed dials and digits. The main readings were feet per second and kilometers per hour, but he was pedestrian enough to orient on old-fashioned miles per hour. accelerating rapidly. And the other cars were keeping pace or pulling ahead, so that the group velocity was deceptive. "Look at the map," Bill shouted. "What's the first hurdle?" IF Fisk opened the map hastily and scanned it. He had been daydreaming while his very life was at stake in an obstacle race at Hundreds of miles per hour. "The Narrows," he said. "The Narrows? That's a stiff location, but good for us. Hang on -- we'll have to push it." And, astonishingly, the acceleration increased. The Fusion began gaining on other cars. "I thought you were all-out before," Fisk gasped. "Hardly. This is the finest car ever made, overall. The Fusion's got more actual muscle than any car on the market -- and unlimited range. It has a little piece of the sun inside, you know -- that's the heat of the conversion, four hydrogen atoms transforming into one helium atom in controlled fusion. Fuel's no problem -- it's loaded when we make it and it runs on just a little bit of hydrogen until the car is junked. We have no top speed, really -- car would shake apart before we ever reached maximum. Only limiting factor -- oh, don't worry, we won't shake apart -- in a race like this is the frictive surface: the tires. That's why we've got eight -- and they're broad ones, too. But too much acceleration makes them skid a bit and that's bad for control and worse for wear. Got to save the rubber or we'll have trouble finishing, even though the tires are solid. Guess you were still on pneumatics in the antarctic, huh?" "I guess." Fisk realized that he had just received lesson one in Fusion salesmanship. The car was so powerful that even solid composition tires could wear out of round in the course of an hour. And Bill was taking that risk now. The Fusion was overhauling car after car. The speedometer read -- Fisk looked again, astonished -- # mph... #... # and still rising. Air whistled past the little winglike vanes on the sides that were necessary for control at such velocity -- even the soundprooftng could not eliminate every vestige of that hurricane keening. # mph... Bill was right. Telling a prospective salesman about the Fusion could not have been nearly as efficient as showing him, regardless of his presunied experience. When he got into the showroom and a customer asked him about power and speed Fisk would not need any artifice to describe the car. He had seen it in action, seen the other racers falling behind at #... II  OU' haven't raced before," X Bill observed mildly. And it was out at lasttoo late. "I tried to tell you, but -- " Bill smiled. "But you're a sucker for a sob story." "Oh-oh. You mean to say your co-pilot didn't -- " "No, he did, all right. I do need this money for him. But nine men out of ten would not risk their own necks in a grind like this to help out someone they'd never seen. You're too soft-hearted. I'll bet you've been stepped on more than once or you wouldn't be looking for a job at your age." "Close enough." "Don't worry about it, Fisk. Lots of people sneer because they haven't got the guts to be decent when the heat is on. I knew you weren't a racer the moment I saw you. You don't have racer's ways. But I wasn't going to embarrass the boss right before a race -- and I did need a mapman." "And you're a bit soft yourself," Fisk said. "Helping your friend, sparing your boss, giving me a chance at a JobL-" Bill laughed easily. "Takes one to know one, doesn't it? Little girl set it up, right? Wanted her daddy to be a big man? Well, you are one -- and not because of any fancy race. Gpt a child like that myself -- wouldn't trade her. No, I'll cover for you, Fisk. They can't hear us here. Only contact is the radio and that's one-way -- in. On the public band. So no driver can sneak in tactical info during the race. You're an honest man and I like that, so I stopped you from making an ass of yourself, or seeming to. Man quits a race at the start, the word spreads that he's chicken, no matter what the facts. After this you'll be a racer officially -- and nobody has to know the difference." Fisk was beginning to find the man's solicitude a bit confining. "But it isn't honest to -- " "It isn't right to make a scene right before a race, embarrassing the company and hurting the little girl's feelings. Got to choose your course in a hurry -- even when the best one is ragged. That's racing. Ifigured more people would be better oft this way, so this is how I played it. Okay?" What was there to say? "Okay," Fisk agreed reluctantly. Then he saw the end of the track: slanting walls of concrete foam narrowed the thirty-car highway into twenty, ten, five lanes. Bill maneuvered the vehicle around the few remaining leaders with minute but expert turns of his steering wheel that nevertheless brought anguished squeals from the massive tires. At # mph he passed his last competitor and slammed into the Narrows. "New leader and winner of the IF first heat. Fusion!" a voice announced. Fisk jumped, then realized that it was the car radio. The race was being broadcast to the sports fans of the world. "Sales: Fusion twenty-four, Steamco nineteen, Dupeijet seventeen -- " "Hear that?" Bill cried happily. "The sales foUow the performance, roughly. Usually the winner of a Hurdle is good for a hundred and fifty contracts or more right during the race. Much more if something spectacular happens. We're ahead where it counts." Fisk was amazed. "You mean people are buying cars while they watch?" "They sure are. When a car makes a good move, the saleslines light up. Impulse buyers. Want to own a car with class. We're selling Fusions fight now, Fisk -- one per cent commission on the gross goes to the driver. Five hundred dollars per unit, if they take the Special -- less for the tamer models, though no Fusion is really tame. If I run well this time and sell a hundred cars -- that's twenty-five grand. Pretty good for a week's pay. Of course I don't always finish -- then I get nothing. And most races I make less than ten grand when I do place. And I'd have to finish at least second or third just to cover my friend's medical expenses if I wanted to do it in one race. But it's a living. I figure to retire after I X the concept and by the rapidly closing walls of the Narrows. Five hundred miles per hour was an outrageous speed for a car and now that there was something to measure it against outside... "Oh, sorry -- I didn't mean to rub it in, pal. You aren't a regular driver, so that commission doesn't apply to you. But I'll tell them you helped a lot and if we do well the company'll give you a 'nice starting bonus. Your commissions will come niostly from your showroom sales." Fisk's concern had been about the danger, not the money, but he didn't push the matter. Bill braked, using small parachutes that blossomed anddragged behind the car. They provided a steady reduction of speed without sluing. Fisk was glad they did. The Narrows, according to the map, was a one-lane chute with thick twelve-foot-high barricades on either side. No vehicle could pass another here and some of the curves could be disastrous at peak velocity. Studying the map at this point was foolish -- Fisk raised his eyes to his surroundings. The crisscrossed timbers were invisible at this range, merely a graying of the view, but he knew they were timbers of steel. Speed here was less essential than control. Any accident would block the Najrows. Bill had ensured his own passage and placement by entering first. A faint rattle sounded in the car. Bill cocked an ear alertly. "'Check your gauges, he snapped to Fisk. "Probably that was an irregularity in the track -- felt like it. But just in case -- '" Fisk scanned the dials and lights. "AU green and in normal range." "Right. Some of these buggies are more maneuvable at speed," Bill explained as he sweated the Fusion down and through. "They could leave us behind on a track like this -- if they could pass us. We're heavy and prone to chassis stresses. Not the fault of the car -- it's inherent in the mass and much of that mass is shielding that we simply have to have. If any of those other cars carried our weight penalty they wouldn't have a chance in this race. But here in the Narrows we lose no ground. If anything's wrong we can slow down and check it out. Next straightaway we'll show 'em dust! What's next on the map?" "Hairpin." "Say, we're really in luck! That's our worst time loser and now we've got first crack at it. The big ugly god of Hurdle racers must be smiling on us. We might even win this one, baby!" Bill continued to slow, but even at tilted on the gentle curves, alarming Fisk. They shot out of the Narrows and into Hairpin at a comparative crawl of # mph. Bill slued into the approach, deliberately skidding the rear wheels and braking. The car behind the Fusion was a jet. Fisk watched it in the rear-view screen so as not to have to watch the nightmare ahead. He knew the jet's wheels were merely for support. The only thing that stopped it from being a flyaway winner on the straightaway was the pollution damping -- its flaming exhaust had to meet almost prohibitive standards of emission control. It was, of course, chemically fueled and could not travel as far as the Fusion. Bill whipped around another killer bend of the Hairpin at # while metal groaned and dirt flew wide. Fisk thought he heard another rattling, but decided that it was caused by the spray of pebbles thrown up against the bottom of the vehicle. Outside each curve was a six-foot drop-off onto an escape lane -- the turn had to be made tightly for there was no second chance. IF "Fusion still leads," the radio announced. "Excellent tactics in a slow second heat. Sales; Fusion twenty-six, Duperjet twentyone... "Not much pickup on the Narrows," Bill explained in fragmentary fashion between the bodysmashing maneuvers. He was heeland-toeing it now, working accelerator clutch and wheelbrake almost simultaneously with his right foot while his left controlled the movable windvanes for additional control. The parachute brakes had been jettisoned -- they could not be turned on and off like this. Fisk was amazed Bill still had concentration for chatter while performing such heroic feats. "I held up the line. Crowd likes action. But we're in good field position. Watch us go once we pass Hairpin." He braked down to # for the sharpest bend. Fisk thought the turn impossible -- it looked like the point of a knife. And somepne rah out into the track. F isk became faint with horror, but Bill's reaction time was like an old-fashioned mousetrap. He swerved to miss the figure, throwing the car into a four-wheel tilt, and careened off the bank to drop into the escape lane. The two men bounced like yayos in their harnesses as the great car landed, but they and it took the fall without physical damage. The jet following did likewise, landing more gently because it had only half the Fusion's mass. It pulled up even. The lane had no passing room. The cars jostled together and spun. The side vane of the jet cut through the Fusion's bubble top, opening a neat incision in the shatterproof material. Then the lighter car shot ahead, reorienting in a fine display of equilibrium and blasting back down the intercept lane to rejoin the race. Missing a turn did not, it seemed, disqualify a car but merely delayed it. Already three other cars had navigated this fold of the Hpin and more were coming. The dust was rising higher as the road eroded. The remaining entries would be taking the curve virtually blind -- another disadvantage of trailing the leaders. Bill guided the car to a safe slowdown, then slapped a hand to his head. "Get her moving," he said thickly. "The -- " Fisk saw blood. "My controls don't -- " he began, but paused as he saw Bill slump. How badly had the man been injured? The harness prevented him from looking more closely. "New leader," the radio announced. "Fusion and Dupeijet spun out on Hairpin. Steamco is now first. Sales: Steamco thirtytwo, Fusion -- one moment, the cancellations are still coming in -- Fusion twenty-one, Dupererjet fifteen... The car was blocking the sole escape lane. Any car that missed the turn would shoot right this way at sixty or better, probably out of control. The ballooning dust guaranteed that the on-rushing vehicle would not see the Fusion in time to stop, even if it were in condition to do so. Something knocked on the bubbel and for a heartbeat Fisk thought a collision had already occurred. But the figure who had started this disaster by materializing in the forbidden territory of the Hurdle Hairpin had rematerialized and was dancing outside. This time Fisk recognized her. "Yola!" he cried in dismay. He should have known. She yelled something, he couldn't make out in the confusion. Then she pointed at Bill. "Duperjet clipped him, thanks to you -- " Fisk shouted. "Fisk, let me in!" Her voice came through the unnatural vent. He found the canopy switch on Bill's side and jerked it. The bubbletop yanked itself up, its ripped portion catching, then springing loose. Yola jumped about inside. "Close up and get rolling," she ordered, settling into Bill's inert lap. "First car that misses that pretzel -- pow!" An apt summation."But I can't -- my controls don't -- " "Don't give me that. You'll kill us all -- " She looked back. "Here comes one now!" Fisk's hand found the changeover switch and his foot came down on the accelerator clutch. The car lunged aimlessly, all eight whebls spinning in the dirt. He grabbed at the steering wheel, easing up enough on the clutch to let the wheels catch. "But there's nowhere to go -- " he protested belatedly. "Back on the main track, stupid! We've got to get this guy to a doctor. He's bleeding -- " And Fisk was somehow guiding the behemoth down the track at rapidly accelerating velocity. His lightest pressure on the pedal elicited a surge of brute animation that was frightening in its strength. No car was behind -- that had been a false alarm. But e knew they could not have remained in the escape lane -- and Yola was right about Bill. The man was hurt and every minute that kept him from medical attention might reduce his chances of survival. The only way out was straight ahead. IF T hen a car did appear in the escape lane, nosing out of thcL. dust cloud as though from a broWn tunnel, and Fisk involuntarily goosed the Fusion back onto the main track, his tires screaming as he turned. Fortunately for hijn there were no further hairpin loops. "What are we in for next?" he asked her, his hands sweating. He was moving the monster -- but how long could he control it? Every time he pushed down on the pedal the wheels destroyed themselves a little in their effort to accelerate the vehicle instantly. But it was either ride this tiger or be smashed flat by the one following. Yola scrabbled for the map, which had strewn itself across Fisk's feet. "The Elevated," she said. "Better get up speed." "No, thank you. I'm doing eighty now -- and I know my limits. We're just going to limp out the safest way we can find and -- what were you doing on the track, anyway?" "Have it your way," she said with affected nonchalance. "But I'm a race fan from way back and I think you'd better get it up. Ever see the El on the newscreen?" the radio blared. "Fusion is not out of the race, but trails the pack and is moving erratically. Sales: DuV perjet fifty-five, Steamco fortynine, Gasturb thirty..." "Never watched sports." He Jooked around nervously. "Look, Yola -- Bill's a nice guy and it's your fault he's hurt. See if you can bandage him up -- or something." "What do I know about firstaid?" she demanded as rebelliously s always when told to do something. But she began looking in the car pocket for the medical supplies that had to be there. "... and Fusion twelve -- no, ten." Fisk saw what lay ahead of them. "That?" "What do you think? Watch those cars behind you." Fisk saw them come up on him at an alarming clip as they navigated the last of Hairpin and accelerated. The track was widening here, but one slow vehicle could be disaster. He speeded up. Yola found a rolled bandage and began stretching it out. Fisk knew her hands were dirty -- they always werebut kept his peace. Infection was the least of his present concerns. "We're taking a beating at the box office," she said. "But we're still in the race and we're not last either. Yet." Still the cars came, showing no inclination to avoid a possible crash. Fisk's adrenalin squirted. He stamped down hard and the car surged forward as though its speed of a hundred miles per hour had been mere idling. It was a fine piece of machinery and it could hardly perform like this if it had suffered mechanical damage in the accident. There was, indeed, a certain exhilaration in managing a brute like this, Fisk discovered.  They were booming up the steep approach ramp of the Elevated. The combination of acceleration and angle shoved the riders back into their seats, hard. Yola balanced precariously and Fisk felt the first twinge of nausea. He had a circulatory disorder that could be aggravated by sustained physical stress. Ordinarily it didn't bother him -- token medication kept the symptoms suppressed -- but ordinarily he didn't tackle obstacle Yola complained, His neck is all icky with hair and gore -- I can't make the bandage stay." "Then hold it in place with your hand," Fisk rasped, resenting the need to split his concentration aiid expend his breath in a situation like this. "We've got to keep him from bleeding too much. If Bill hadn't swerved to avoid you -- " She uttered a monosyllable Fisk didn't recognize -- fortunately. He was pretty sure it would have earned her another week in solitary back at the orphanage from whence she sprang. But somehow she Fixed the bandage in place. T hen they were up, other cars ahead and behind. Ahead also stretched mind-numbing miles of twisted ribbon, five hundred feet above the ground, tapering into a thread in the distance, though it was four lanes wide. Two following cars charged past, the whine of their tires momentarily loud. The odor of oil and hot rubberoid swirled in through the rent in the bubble. Yola sneezed. "There can't be many more behind us," she muttered, torn between hope and regret. She clung to the straps of Bill's harness as the incoming gusts swept black hair across her brown face. "But don't stop now -- you have to take the El at speed or you fait off." She was speaking literally. The paving contorted like a living tapeworm, given animation by his speed of # mph. In addition, the hole in the bubble interfered with the streamline contour and created a dangerous drag that Fisk seemed to feel all the way down to the sliding tires. But their forward momentum was not enough. The road tilted now into a forty-five degree embankment -- he would indeed fall off unless he maintained speed sufficient to match the needs of the curve. "Yeah," Yola said, licking her lips. At eleven, with her deprived IF background, she, was more enthusiastic than afraid. He hadn't really needed to ask why she had sneaked into the racegrounds. She had done so because it was forbidden. She had wanted a ride and now she had it. Quite possibly her last. More wind blasted in as he accelerated. "Close up that hole," Fisk snapped as another warning wave of dizziness came over him. The blood circulation to his brain was being inhibited -- but to stop was to die. Already they were sliding toward the nether perimeter and the drag was making matters worse. He had to keep turning the wheel and bearing down on the pedal to counter the drift. But if he accelerated too strongly and broke the wheels free of the surface... "Don't tell me what to do!" Yola flared. Fisk twitched the wheel the other way. The Fusion jerked toward the rail. The bright water of a scenic lake spread helow -- a natural safety net. But they could drown, for the massive car would plummet to the bottom. "Okay! Okay!" she exclaimed with bad grace. "You're the driver -- " She dug out some harness strap and additional bandage and wedged the mass into the gap. It helped. Now Fisk was able to gain the speed he needed: #... #S#... # -- finally the drift abated and they were cruising in a kind of stasis. It was, actually, rather pleasant in its way -- the velocity anesthetized his sense of proportion and the balancing forces lulled his circulatory incapacity. What remained was a growing sense of well-being and power. He was no longer Fisk the hard-sell sucker -- he was Fisk the Supreme! The Secret Life of Fisk Centers... Then the curvature and banking reversed. Fisk was driving for his life and there was suddenly no joy in it. He slued across the strip at # mph without any exact knowledge where he was going or how long he could last. His brain tried to black out. He tilted his head back as far as he could, trying to let the blood in his system flow level to the gray region that needed it. "Slow up! Speed down!" Yola screamed. "Watch the sky low!" Which was just about the way Fisk saw it. "Duperjet is still the leader," the radio announced. "Sales: Duperjet seventy-eight, Steantco sixty. Electro forty-four..." T he tilt decreased and the car was rolling down the steep exit slope at #S# mph. Fisk knew there had been many miles of elevated ribbon and that he had covered every twist at daredevil speed, but his memory had a short-term blank on the subject. That was fortunate for his equanimity, infortunate for his security, since memory lapse was another signal of his functional impairment. Nothing but blind reflex had carried him through, but before long his reflexes would cut out, too. Yola sat silent and staring. The ride must have been good to faze her like that, Fisk thought. "... Fusion thirteen..." At the foot of the ramp was an impenetrable bank of fog. The road led directly into it. Fisk sighed. No way to avoid it. This was obviously part of the course. Another hurdle. He turned on lights, searing beams of windowed from the solar activity of the engine, but the best they could do here was about two hundred feet. The car was moving at more than five hundred feet per second, according to the relevant scale of the speedometer -- # mph. How many seconds uld it take him to come to a stop? He applied the brakes. The car slowed with neck-wrenching suddenness. Bill groaned. Good -- the sound proved he was alive. The smell of burning rubberoid infiltrated from somewhere. "Keep moving!" Yola screamed. "Fogbank always has stuff in it -- " A gap opened in the road. By the time Fisk reacted, it was too late to react. The car hurtled the twenty foot void with no more than a nasty jolt. "Try that at half the speed," Yola muttered faintly. Fisk had to agree with her. Undervelocity was just as dangerous here as overvelocity. His conservative course was to maintain middle-range speed -- say # mph. A wall appeared, made of stone and steel by its look. Fisk swerved left barely in time. The wall was oblique, cutting across the lane only gradually, right to left. His instinct had been accurate and he had dodged the hurdle. "Try that at half speed," he mimicked. "Luck," Yola said disparagingly, as though her own life were not part of the stakes. Not all of the fog was outside. Fisk's arms were becoming leaden on the wheel and his eyelids felt heavy. His system had taken just about all it was going to. He was out of adrenalin. Wisps of cloud passed between his face and the instrument panel -- or perhaps between his eyes and brain. "Wake up!" Yola screamed. Fisk snapped alert, laughing -- and momentarily felt refreshed, ready to continue another couple of IF minutes. He was giving Yola all the thrills she had asked for -- and more. "Duperjet is out of the race," the radio announced. "Crackup in the Slalom -- " Fisk bounced over a washboard trap and emerged from the fog. Fogbank hadn't actually been so bad. It would have been another matter in the press of the pack, however: T hey were out of the fog and into a forest. Green concrete pseudotrees or pilings rose from the highway in a seemingly solid mass. They were cold -- ice had formed on them and snow coated the ground. "The Slalom," Yola said despairingly. "Doom!" But the pilings were less impenetrable than they seemed from a distance. In the seconds it took to reach the first, Fisk saw that they were spaced well apart. There was room to skid around them if forward progress were not excessive. The tracks of many wheels showed the routes other cars had taken. But across the main trail were wheels themselves, and jagged pieces of metal -- the debris of a recent accident strewed across the course. Dupeijet, surely. This was dangerous territory. "... Fusion nineteen... Duperjet nine..." The buyers certainly had little sympathy for a loser. Yet Dupeijet was a flne car. It had led the pack after that spinout. Fusion was recovering sales -- but what a grisly way to succeed. Fisk was falling under the sway of stress fatigue again. He willed his remaining strength into his hands and aimed the vehicle at the widest aperture between groups of pilings, following the common trail, Here and there the refrigerative grid showed, scraped temporarily bare by the passage of the pack, giving him slightly improved footing. He was still doing over # mph and he knew better than to attempt to change speed here Yola covered her eyes. "You drive like a zombie," she said. The trail split. A piling lay dead ahead. Fisk forced a message down along the resistive nerve tissue of his right arm and the arm convulsed a bit, pulling the wheel around just that necessary fraction. The car slued, scraping against the piling on the left and almost disloging Yola's hole-stufTing. At this point Fisk hardly cared -- it was as though car and racetrack were far away. Even his own extremities were, almost beyond reach. His heart was laboring to the point of collapse, but the life-sustaining blood was not getting through. He was numb and terribly tired. Yet he would not let go entirely. He hung on. A thin rivulet of animation trickled along the buried conduits of his pallid flesh. As the pilings loomed his muscles twitched and the car shaved by, never quite hitting, never quite sacriFicing the tfaction so necessary to keep it from following the Duperjet into destruction. But Fusion's huge mass gave it traction where a lighter car might have skated. The impact of their passage howled about the myriad death traps of the Slalom -- if he had been the lyrical type he might have immortalized the experience in poetry -- and then they were out of it. "We're alive," Yola whispered, amazed. "At least I am. For a while I almost wished I was back at the orphanage." She looked at Fisk. "You can stop here. We're out of the woods and nobody's behind us any more." Fisk ignored her. Now he faced a straightaway, long and level and dry. Far ahead he could see several other cars. The Fusion had actually gained on them during this last hurdle. The race wasn't over yet -- and as long as he was in it, why not win it? Ill futile delusion of grandeur of an oxygen-starved brain, its frontal lobes anesthetized. He didn't care.  Bill needed a large sales tally for his friend's medical bills -- and perhaps for his own. Fisk was indirectly responsible for the Fusion's fall from first to last place in the Hurdle and for Bill's injury. There was power under his foot if not in his body or brain. Why not invoke it, double or nothing? "Daddy, what are you doing?" Yola whispered as the car accelerated. "You wilful little brat -- you got me into this," he snapped. "Now you're going to see it through." He was mad -- insane, not angry. His brain had gone berserk and was running faster than the car. He had never suffered this effect of his malady before. It was as though another personality had fought to the surface -- a completely un-Fisk monster. No, not true. This was his true personality. Shackled by decades of civilized restraint, it had emerged at last. "So it's like that. Centers," Yola muttered. "Well, want to know what's next? The MTountain." Fisk-normal quailed, but the demon aspect who had usurped control' of his body said in fine detergent-opera fashion, "Yeah? So watch this." And his right foot crunched down harder. The speedometer read # mph. IF It climbed rapidly as the tireless machine obeyed the imperious command of a lunatic. "Steamco eighty-six. Electro fifty-nine, Gasturb forty-nine... the radio said and continued on through the entire list of twenty-six cars remaining in the race. Fusion was back up to twenty-four. The car was doing # now and Fisk's foot was a marvel of unremitting ponderosity. This was a fair-sized straightaway -- the kind where power counted. Fusion's favorite track. The gap between him and the pack was closing. How much would this buggy do? "This is suicide," a small voice whimpered. At first Fisk thought it was that of his civilized-self conscience, but it turned out to be Yola's. Fisk's eyeballs seemed to be locked in their sockets, able to move only marginally to cover the contours of the road. He himself was a machine, his arms levering more or less together, sharing his drastically limitecL muscular power as though connected by an oldfashioned limited-slip differential. # mph... Suddenly the straightaway was ending and he was overhauling the pack at a phenomenal clip. The demon in him exulted. "You fool -- it's the Mountain!" Yola screamed, afraid. But Fisk saw only his beautiful passing of competitors on the fast track. So they had written off Fusion, had they? Then his foot came up involuntarily. Yola was down beside the pedal, prying it loose. And the pack moved ahead again and crammed like so much floating refuse into the drain-like access to the next hurdle. "Fusion has merged with the pack." The radio sounded surprised. "Looked for a moment there as if -- but the driver was too smart to risk a pass on Mountain. We thought Fusion had mechanical trouble, but obviously not Sales: Steamco a hundred and one... Electro seventy-five, Gasturb fiftyfive, Vaporlock forty-four, Fusion thirty-eight..." "Wow!" Yola cried, forgetting her apprehension of the moment before. "You may be crazy, but we're bacK in the sales niontiy! What's your cut of the gross, Fisk?" He didn't answer, knowing how little the money meant, compared to the lives depending on it. She had climbed back into Bill's lap and Fisk's foot was free, but now the ascent was too steep to permit high velcity. He trailed the pack at a poor # mph. The course wedged into a twolane thread, along which cars were spaced like traveling ants. A cliff developed on the right, the drop-ofT becoming tall and sheer. A car ahead, trkdio pass another precipitously. The banking of the road reversed, throwing .it tdo faf out and the vehicle sailed into space to torpedo into the water trap below. Coaldust slipped," the radio cried. 'Twenty-four cars remain in the race at the two-thirds point..." The demon that now governed Fisk's ailing body took note. A lot of cars would not finish because their drivers were too eager. He had better bide his time until he hit another straightaway. 'Mewhile, Mountain was a terror. Visibility declined as the blind curves became sharper. A small thunderstorm was anchored at the crest, peHiftg the entries with rain and hailstones. He had to slow to # and pace himself by the car ahead through the blasting rain. TKn #ame the descent and Fisk accelerated down the glassy slope. "Steamco one-twenty-nine... Electro one-fourteen... Vaporlock sixty-eight... Fusion fiftynine..." Fusion and Fisk were moving up on sales faster than on the pack, perhaps because the spectators knew what would happen on the next level heat, but not fast enough. The demon would settle for nothing less than total victory. "Oh-oh," Yola said. "Loop's coming next. Cool it, leadfoot." Bill groaned again. He was showing signs of recovery. like sandflat beyond. Gently rolling dunes were artfully placed to alleviate the monotony and impede progress -- a straight-line route would necessarily take in several of them. The alternative was to waste time going around them. He had no idea of what it was like to drive on sand. But if the other cars could handle it, so could Fusion -- and this might be its last chance to pass the pack before the finish. "Steamco still leads going into the Loop," the radio said. "Pack's pretty close and tight, though. There's likely to be some action..." Indeed there was. Fisk observed the Loop, nestled in the angle between the Mountain terminus and the Dunes plain. It seemed to be about three lanes wide -- but the pack contained about fifteen cars nd few of them were giving way to let the procession become orderly. The Fusion was gaining, but would strike the Loop just after the pack did. It didn't look as though there were any inherent limit on speed here -- the faster he went, the less likely he would be to fall off at the upsidedown apex, provided he had IF the car under control. And as long as nothing got in his way. But could his defective body take the strain? was weak. The first car hit the Loop. Up and over it went at some five hundred miles per hour, like a toy. Only car lengths behind it came the second, closing. Then, squeezing in two and three abreast, the pack, vying for position even as they encountered the vertical ascent. And mph, still accelerating, still gaining. Steaihcb shot from the corkscrew exit and land on the fringe of the sandflaL Dust billowed up momentarily. Electro smacked into this and swerved, stirring up a greater cloud. Then the pack was tearing through like so many piranhas. Fisk was entering the Loop at # mph. "Hang on!"he yelled, though Yola needed no. warning. They smashed into the vertical curve and Fisk's breath left him. This was in effect a tenor fifteen-G takeoff, he was sure. He clutched at a painful gray awareness. "... spectacular crash!" the radio blared avidly and Fisk realized he had failed and could expect nothing but agony before he died. "Pileup just beyond the Loop..." Not me -- someone else... He was headed up at # .mph; The reality that kept, him fighting was the climbing needle-signifying conquest. Yota screamed tbinly. They were upside down, plummeting headfirst, leveling, taking off, upside down, proceeding along the awful corkscrew of the Loop. Fisk shoved the pedal all the way to the floor, connecting engine to wheels without any bleeding of power. He rode the descent lane into ever increasing velocity. #... #... magic pictures on his retina... #... #... #... and they were sailing, skirt of the Loop. #... ; the wheels seemed hardly to touch the sand and only the little vanes kept the car level. #... #... flaqceleration was slowernow. The great machine shuddered as though its stress limit had finally been met and all that was left for Yola wa shaken moan. #... and the needle quivered, seemed to strain. This was ultimate glory!... fire prevents recovery of the bodies... total loss... worst disaster of the year... look at Fusion!" Dead ahead, half concealed by a. low dune and a sinking #ust cloudy was the roadblock. Licks of flame shot up and smoke was piling into the sky. No chance to turn. A thousand feet away -- and in less than one second they were upon it, traveling at # mph, Fisk's foot still savagely mashing the pedal. The Fusion was tearing itself apart and eradication was a microsecond away, but he would not even attempt to ease up. Already he was touching the vane-angle switch. T he low dune shoved the rubberoid and metal aloft in a single mighty convulsion. The great wheels barely touched the flaming corpse of the nearest car. And they were airborne as the shaking became almost intolerable. Fumes siphoned in through the stuffed hole as the car was bathed in fire. The speedometer stood at #. "Great God," Vola screamed in a whisper. "We've cracked the speed of sound!" "Fusion is past!" the radio gasped. "Fusion hurdled pileup..." The car landed, and sand swirled up behind it in little tornadoes spawned by the vacuum of their passage, but the mighty machine crunched on. The flames were far behind. Fisk's hands and arms were senseless and stiff in a kind of living rigor mortis, but straight ahead was all the car needed in the way of a directive. Now at last his foot began to creep up from the pedal. "What -- what?" a voice mumbled. "Hey, he's coming to," Yola cried as Bill stirred. "Keep him quiet," Fisk's voice rasped. "We're still doing sixninety on sand -- " "Sales," the radio said. "Steamco one-fifty-two... Fusion -- one moment, it's still changing -- that feat of piloting really stirred up the -- never saw anything like it. Fusion takes the lead in sales! Fusion one-seventy,three... And Steamco -- one moment -- " Bill lifted his head. "God, man, that's near my best. What -- " "I had to take over," Fisk said tefsely. He was still fighting the rising tide of gray behind his eyes. "Yeah -- but -- " "Revised sales," the radio said. "Fusion two hundred and eight -- folks, it's still changing. We can't get a fixed reading. The race isn't even finished... Fusion two-fortynine... two-sixty-one -- " There was an unexplained pause, then: "Folks, to recap: there has been a nfteen-car collision on the Dunes just beyond the Loop, but the remaining cars are still running. Here's the replay -- " 'Another pause as the screen viewers saw the film. "Steamco retains the lead on the track, but that's all -- and Fusion is coming up fast. The others -- seven cars, I believe -- are picking their way around the IF wreckage, avoiding the flames. None of them will finish in the money. It's a two-car race! Fusion, not known for its maneuverability, pulled such an extraordinary feat of -- Fusion three hundred and nineteen! Those orders are pouring in! Here's the replay on that hurdle of death. That's Fusion Firing out of the Loop -- look at that! It cracked mach one! We thought the car was out of the running, then this! The buyers are really impressed. Hell, I'm impressed, and I've been in this business for -- Most racers would have been smashed to pieces, busting sound like that, let alone doing it through flame! Fusion three-seventy... four hundred... Folks we can't keep up. Unprecedented sales for an unfinished race. Looks like a record in the making, even if Fusion doesn't win the Hurdle. Four-fifty-two... I gotta buy one myself..." The announcer panted into silence. "That tells it," Bill exclaimed. "Sweetest music f ever heard. And I thought you couldn't drive -- " "I can't," Fisk said. "I'm sicker than yqu are." Bill looked at him. "You're white as bones -- you have a heart condition? I've lost some blood, but I've taken lumps before -- better let me take over. Kid, get down on the floor or somewhere." Yola scrambled down, finding a place to squat between the bucket seats. Bill threw the switch and Fisk's controb went dead. Now he could relax. These regular racing drivers were almost as tough as their cars. "What's next?" Bill demanded, angling the car gently around another dune. "Tunnel," Yola said, wrestling with the map. "Fusion six hundred and seven..." F isk lay back and let himself slide into whatever oblivion awaited. The demon had left him, but Fisk-normal still needed his medicine. Jhe race's end could not be far off and it did look as though he were planning to survive. "Fusion seven-twenty-six..." Bill shook his head. "Fisk, I don't know exactly how you did it -- but you've just made us rich. Those sales are going to hit a thousand. It's a bandwagon now -- everybody in the world will want a dollars in commissions -- " "They'll come to their senses and begin canceling after the excitement passes," Fisk pointed out. Now that he could afford to fainty he seemed perversely to be recovering strength. "Sure -- but the cancellations will be made up by other buyers reading about this in the fax. That always happens. Don't worry -- we've got record wfnnings and the credit's yours. So you took her through mach, did you? I never had the nerve." "Terrific!" Yola cried, liking the idea of fame.  "Uh -- better not," Fisk said, eying the tiny mouth of the approaching tunnel. Bill sounded normal, but Fisk didn't trust the man's condition. He had been unconscious for a fair period and must have lost a significant quantity of blood -- and an error in judgment of so much as six inches could be fatal, in that tight passage ahead. ' "No, no, Fisk -- you did it and you'll get the commission. When I tell the boss how you pulled it out -- " "We'll be rich!" Yola exclaimed with childish avarice. Fisk hadn't been talking about money. His concern had been to see them through the tunnel alive. Steamco had just entered and at the rate the Fusion was going there would be contact between them inside that darkness. Was Bill intending to vie for position even now? But it seemed money was a factor, because of the tremendous sales spurred by bis mad exploit of moments ago. Yola's gre and Bill's misunderstanding sent a negative ripple through the weary convolutions of his brain. "When you tell your boss that he'll fire you for allowing an unqualified driver to take over and play roulette with inainery and people's lives in the Hurdle. BecaUM you knew about me and he didn't. It was blind luck that got us through -- as the tapes of the race will show." Bill slid the car into the Tunnel as though he had done it aQ his life -- as perhaps he had. "Maybe so," he said soberly. "But luck doesn't usually operate that way -- not on the El or the Mountain -- and especially not in getting up speed to hurdle wreckage. There was driving genius in your hands and feet, like it or not. But you're right -- it's bad business and my boss would rather not know. Okay -- we'll split the take, half and half. It's right to share, because I got hurt and you -- " them the rag-and-strap plug popped out of the bole in. the bubble, urged by the suddenly compressing air within the confined space. An almost solid blast of atmosphere rammed in, striking Bill in the face and making a stormlike turbulence within the bubble. The car swerved, partly because Bill'ould barely see in the IF gale, but mostly, Fisk knew, because of the drag of the aperture itself. There was no room to compensate here. The stony walls were inches away. But Yola knew what to do and since no one had told her to do it, she did it. She crawled across Bill's lap, probably kneeing him painfully in the process, fetched in the tattered wad and jamfhed it back into the hole. The storm subsided. Fisk was able to speak again. "You were hurt because my daughter ran out in front of us while you were going through Hairpin. She almost killed us all." "Take the money -- take the money!" Yola cried. "You sure are one for making objections," Bill said ruefully. "What do you want?" "I think we'd better just walk out of your life when the race is over. A good -- " He had to pause, for they had caught up with Steamco. The Tunnel was lighted, but irregularly -- the width varied from one to three lanes with curves thrown in. Passing could be tricky -- and Steamco had no intention of being passed. "A good sales day is the least we can do to repay -- " But Fisk had 'to stop again as Bill swerved to pass on a subterranean straightaway and was quickly Mocked off. Steamco had to know that there was no car to beat but Fusion -- all the drivers would have been hearing the radio reports. The only way Steamco could recoup was by finishing ahead -- or by putting Fusion out of the race entirely. The passage narrowed, halting the maneuvering for the moment. " -- the trouble we have caused you," Fisk continued. "I'll find another job." "Fisk, shut up," Yola said. "You're throwing away a quarter "Fusion nine hundred and eightyone sales..." "Look, Fisk," Bill said earnestly as the dark walls rushed past and trickles of wind whined in through the stuffed hole. "I told you I'd cover for you about yotir lack of experience, laughable as that seems now. You've had experience somewhere -- somehow -- even if you don't remember it. You're covering for me, really. And I'd never make trouble for your little girl. You don't have to sign over the money for that. I want you to have your share because you earned it. I wouldn't feel right letting you go away with nothing after the way you -- " "I wouldn't feel right taking it," Fisk said firmly. "You were right -- any idiot can drive this car and one just did -- " "Fisk," Yola said, "if you don't take that money. I'm going to -- " The dark track opened into a dual lane, then into a broad cavern spiked with stalagmites casting multiple and deceptive shadows. Many trails seemed to be open. Bill goosed the Fusion and angled for the far right opening. The Steamco moved over to block him, staying just ahead so that passing was impossible. "I'll take the commission myself and make out a check for you," Bill said, as though nothing special were going on. "I'll take all the credit for the race, if that's the way you want it -- but you've got to have your share of the commission. I can't take all the money for a race I didn't drive." "I don't want it,' Fisk said. Bill tried to pass again. The maneuver was impressive at # mph in the partially lighted cavern. But Steamco was ready and stayed ahead. "Fusion one thousand and thirtyeight..." "I'll give H to your daughter, then," Bill said. "An irrevocable trust for her education, so she doesn't have to run onto any more 'racetracks." "Yeah, yeah!" Yola agreed, but with less enthusiasm. Fisk shook . his head. "That money should go to your injured partner." Another dangerous dodge that nearly put both cars into a post. "Twenty-five per cent to your little girl, then." Bill looked grim. "A hundred grand will cover my friend's bill. You're making me settle for twice that. I don't like profiteering on something like this. I'm hurting in my conscience worse than on my head and I can't dicker with you any more. That's my final offer." "Flip for it," Yola said. "You go left next split -- last moment. If Steamco goes right, you pass and Fisk takes the share." "Okay." Fisk was about to demur again, when the radio interrupted: "Folks, you'll be glad to know the drivers survived Duperjet's crash. They blame themselves for misjudgment -- too much speed in the Slalom..." Fisk felt a tremendous relief. Bill accelerated again, almost touching Steamco's persistent tail. As the post zoomed in on them, the first of a line of them, he nudged right, then cut sharply left. Steamco was caught on the right side, too late to compensate without cracking into the pylon. W you?" Yola demanded as she and Fisk stepped out of the tube at his apartment building. ( IF "We need money and you know it. Why wouldn't you take your share?" Fisk himself hardly understood his reasons. "What I did wasn't real. Some demon in me wanted the glory of winning the Hurdle, no matter what the cost. I was too sick to control it -- " "That's right. You looked like a corpse. I thought sure you meant to kill us." "But once the pressure was off I regained control. By then it was too late to undo the damage -- " "But you're the one who brought off the win." "The demon brought if off. But at least I dn't have to give that demon the satisfaction of making a profit from the episode. With no credit and no money -- " "Except that trust Bill's setting up for me that nobody can touch," she said. "Fisk, that money would have bought a lot of fun for both of us and now all it's good for is education. Ugh!" "Precisely. Education abolishes demons." "I just don't get it," she said crossly "Neither do #," Fisk admitted. "I just knew that neither the racing credit nor the money was rightfully mine. "I will earn my fortune in my own way or not at all. That's my particular hurdle. Maybe it's a question of whether Dr. Jekyll or Mr. Hyde will govern."  "Who?" He sighed. "Never mind. It's a devious point of characterization -- and perhaps illusory. But disaster strikes every time I compromise my profit in Marsland speculation and lost everything. I got involved in black market adoption and almost landed in jail. This time I very nearly killed us all. The demon offers material riches, but his real goal is misery." She uttered the expletive he still didn't understand. "The first time you got a new, exciting life. The second time you got me. This time you could have had -- " "At any rate -- I'll never go near another racing car as long as I -- " "Hey, what's this?" she cried, lifting something out of the package slot of the apartment door." Fisklooked at what she had found. It was a small square item with a gift tag. Yola read it aloud. "'You're a great sport. Sink Bill.' " "That's 'Sine.,' not 'sink,' " Fisk said. "For 'Sincerely.' " But she was already tearing open the wrapping with juvenile impatience. Inside was the personalized ID ownership key for a new Fusion Special.  Research can be painful. In fact, at times it's downright sickeningl my office I was genuinely pleased to see him. His reputation in behavioral studies was international and I had been secretly hoping that he would ask me to design instrumentation to carry out his new series of experiments. Doctor Fahy was in his early sixties, a tall thin man with a rather dour expression. He spoke with a minimum of words and the only time he smiled was when he learned that his grant would not be charged for my engineering time. "As a recent arrival at the university," he said, "I'm quite overwhelmed by the many free services." "The parts and construction time are charged," I pointed out. "Naturally," said Dr. Fahy. His pale blue eyes wandered about my office and fixed upon the double row of filing cabinets. "You have a kind of executive responsibility, haven't you?" I nodded. "I'm the sole engineer of the electronics laboratory but I do have two technicians working for me. With all due modesty, let me point out that I've designed everything from a simple stimulator for monkey testicles, to special purpose minicomputers." Dr. Fahy did not seem overly impressed. "That's fine," he said dryly. "Then you should have no difficulty meeting my needs. I've typed out a set of specifications which I will leave in your care. Within a week's time, I should like a cost estimate and a projected date of delivery." I accepted the three pages of specifications with some disappointment. He seemed to sense my distress. "Is anything wrong?" he asked. I sighed. "The standard working practice here is for the researcher to outline for me what he intends to do. I have some familiarity with the ongoing research. Knowing exactly what is supposed to happen enables me to design a better and more apt instrument." He nodded. "That certainly sounds reasonable," said Dr. Fahy. "Nevertheless, I don't work that way. You build me what I've asked for and I'll assume all responsibility for the end result." I was annoyed at his brusqueness but I concealed my anger. "As you wish," I said. specifications that Doctor Fahy wanted an animal shocker of extraordinary potential. He was asking for a ten-thousand volt source capable of delivering up to ten chosen, the current setting was to remain stable to within a tiny fraction of a per cent despite wide variations in the resistance of whatever it was he intended to shock. An accurate printout of the value of the shocking current was required as well as a complex logic facility to program the sequencing and timing of the shocks. There were to be remote and local controls. But most disconcerting were the extraordinary tolerances that were asked for. Clearly this design would require utterly new techniques. I was still quite annoyed at Dr. Fahy's reticencfe. If he had told me what he intended to do I might have been able to point out whero some of the specifications might be relaxed. I decided to go first to the library and read up on his past experiments. I had no difficulty in locating his work. The experimental journals of psychology were filled with them. Generally his procedure was to shock experimental rats in the region of the tail and at the same time submit them to trying sets of circumstances. In his '"executive rat' experiment, he found that animals who could not turn off the shock source right after it had been turned on, developed a severe kind of stomach ulcer. In some cases, he would warn the rat by a tone that the shock was about to come. In other cases, he provided them with a series of tones which terminated just before the shock began. But in every case, he gave the animals tasks to perform despite the approaching shocks. My greatest disappointment came in discovering that nowhere did he describe his experimental apparatus, save in general terms. He did not specify the accuracies of his readings and his results were summarized only in statistical terms. I went back to my office and set about a preliminary design to meet the specifications. When I had finished I called in Dr. Fahy and showed him the results. He became quite angry. "Four thousand dollars to build?" he cried. "That's outrageous!" I attempted to soothe his anger. "If only you would relax your specifications," I began. "He snorted. "Nonsense.This apparatus is virtually the same as the one I had at Bradman Tech. The engineer there had no difficulty in building it for half the amount. I don't like to question your competence, but perhaps you'd like me to get his design?" IF "There's no need for that," I snapped. "I don't need someone else's design. But the cost of the parts and labor cannot be reduced." He shrugged. "If I must, I must," he said. "When can I have it?" " "It will take about a month to get the parts and a month to build the entire unit. Then a week or two to check it out. However, there are other people ahead of you." He waved his hands impatiently. "I can't wait my turn," said Dr, Fahy. "If you want a letter from the university president authorizing you to give me priority I'll get it for you. I have a new grant proposal to write in five months. I must have fresh data long before then." At that point I made my first great error. "I'll give you first priority," I said. B y virtue of nights and Saturdays of unstinting work I managed to deliver this very complex system within two months' time. He accepted it matter-offactly and without even perfunctory thanks. After two days of trial. Dr. Fahy called me on the phone and indicated that except for minor bugs everything seemed in order. He then dropped his bombshell. "I shall require four copies of the prototype system," he said. "And I must have them as soon as possible. I have four technicians drawing salary here and they'll have nothing to do until you supply me with these additional units." "We're not set up for production," I said. "Wc do have other jobs to do." "That's not my concern,' he said. "If you require authorization for additional technicians I'll get it for you." Two days later the authorization to hire two additional technicians came through from the university president's office. But there was no provision for additional bench space. Thereafter I spent two frustrating weeks interviewing job prospects before I found two men who seemed even marginally to meet the job requirements. I asked Dr. Fahy, in the interests of speedy output, to let me borrow the prototype for use as a model but he refused. "The unit is in constant use and can't be spared," he said. I had to work very closely with my new technicians and provide them with detailed mechanical drawings of each section, particularly demonstrating the way all parts had to be mounted. Weeks went by with Dr. Fahy constantly calling me and complaining about the delay. I Was in the process of checking out unit Number Two, when Dr. Fahy called again. "Unit One just quit in the middle of an experiment. Can you come right over?" I went. The power light on the panel of the controller was off. I checked the fuse -- it was okay. After an hour of fussing around I disconnected the controller and took it back to my laboratory. Two hours later I found a poorly soldered connection. When it had been resoldered, I returned the controller. Dr. Fahy set his dials for a test run. His panel lights indicated an incorrect sequence of shocks. "It's been acting up this way lately," said Dr. Fahy. I was astonished. "I .wish you'd told me before. That should never happen." He was annoyed when I insisted on taking the controller back once again. This time it took a day of probing to find that one of my integrated circuit chips was failing on an intermittent basis. I replaced the chip and to my shocked surprise, there was no improvement. Dr. Fahy came by at this time. "My experiments are stopped cold," he said. "Why don't you let me try Unit Two?" "You can," I said reluctantly. #f "But I haven't really completed all my checkout tests." "I'll take my chances," he said. T he third unit came to my bench a week later but I still hadn't found the trouble with Unit One. And then I discovered a diode had been wired in backward. I was both elated and annoyed. "I'll be damned," I cried. "How the hell did this unit ever work?" I delivered it to Dr. Fahy the following day. 'He seemed relieved. "The printouts of this second unit are unreliable," he said. I took Unit Two back. Unit Four was ready when I finally repaired Unit Two and then I discovered Unit One back on my bench with a note from Dr. Fahy stating that it had become unreliable again. The symptoms of Unit One were the most baffling I had ever encountered. It would function perfectly on my bench and then misbehave in Dr. Fahy's lab. "Are your assistants reporting the symptoms correctly?" I asked. "My assistants do not touch any of the controls. I am the only one to do so," he said. I shook my head in puzzlement as he added a few biting sarcasms. IF I had taken to waking in the middle of the night with hunger pains that were allayed only by lots of milk and cookies. Sometimes they even occurred between meals during the day and I began to keep snacks on hand in my laboratory. My weight began to go up, despite the fact that I had begun to come in on Suhdays in an attempt to catch up on my backlog. Dr. Fahy saw me nibbling cookies and sipping milk one day. "It's not a good idea to cram in so many sweets," he said. I was flattered by his interest. It was the first time he had seemed to take personal note of my habits. I told him of my continual hunger. He became alive with attention. 'When did it start," he asked. "How frequently, do yon get these hunger pains?" I told him. "Have you had a physical recently?" "About six months ago," I said. "Everything was perfect." "If I'm right," he said, "you've got a peptic ulcer." v He insisted on taking a full history of my symptoms before sending me off to the specialist associated with the university who confirmed the diagnosis. He put me on a diet of milk and antacids. "Are you under particular stresses?" he asked sympathetically. "For the time being, yes." "They won't help your ulcer. You need a long rest from your work." I sighed. "I don't see how." B ut a small amount of relief appeared on the horizon. The annual engineering show had come to town and despite my work load, I decided to attend. With a great deal of guilt, I went to a talk given by a man named Holcomb, an engineer from Bradman Tech, Dr. Fahy's former Bailiwick. Afterward I went up to chat with Holcomb. "Did you know Dr. Fahy?" I asked. He smiled. "Very well," he said. "He's a difficult man to please. Fortunately I never did any instrumentation for him." "Who did?" I asked. He seemed puzzled. "Did what?" "Built his previous instrumentation at Bradman Tech." I told him of the troubles I had run into. He shook his head. "Beats the hell out of me," he said. "I never built anything for Fahy. He's a trained engineer. He got his bachelor's degree in elecIronies before he got his doctorate in psychology." "TTien you have no idea who designed and built his shockers?" "He probably made them himself," said Holcomb. "At the time I was annoyed because he didn't use me." "I wish I had been that lucky," I said. But now I began to wonder what was going on. That night I went back to my office and pondered the situation. Dr. Fahy had been quite clear in asserting that his equipment had been designed for him at Bradman Tech. He had been lying to me. I walked over to his laboratory in the HanleyBuilding. It was after nine in the evening and the doors were locked. I used my duplicate keys and went inside the deserted , rooms. All of the equipment, including three of my malfunctioning programers, had been turned off. I meticulously checked his interconnecting cables and found three sets running off somewhere. I followed them and found that they ran to a remote room where presumably Dr. Fahy could operate electronic gear including a programable patch board. I had nevr seen any of this equipment before. I turned it on and checked the function of all the controls. I then went back into the main laboratory and turned on the equipment I had designed. It was almost one in the morning before I finished my investigation. I slept poorly that night and spent quite a bit of time at the refrigerator, allaying my hunger pains. In the morning I went to sec Dr. Fahy. He seemed annoyed at the interruption. "I must talk to you," I said. "I believe I've found the source of our electronic instability." He smiled. "Have you really?" "It's in your remote logic control system," I said. "The one that you designed and patched into my units." He nodded. "I suppose you want an explanation," he said. "To put it mildly." "I've always worked with rats," said Dr. Fahy. "Generally speaking, they develop ulcers for two reasons. One is the situation where they are given shocks unless they solve an unsolvabic problem. The other involves solving an infinite number of solvable problems." "It seems I got an infinite number of insolvablc problems," I said. "That was nasty, wasn't it," said Dr. Fahy. "But you sec, working with rats is one thing. ExtrapolatIF ing to humans is quite another" 'So you chose me. And I did develop the expected gastric ulcer." "You're angry and I don't blame you," said Fahy. "But there was a scientific problem of the greatest moment at stake. I became obsessed with knowing the answer. Can you understand that?" "How do you think the faculty council will react when I report what you've done?" "You won't do that," said Dr. Fahy. "For one thing, you can't prove your case. I'll deny everything." "Even this conversation?" "Even that. But you have an alternative choice. If you agree to sign a waiver of claims against me. I'll publish our data. It will rock the scientific world and give you immortality." "No doubt," I said dryly. "But who would publish this caricature of science?" "I'm editor of a psychology journal. I'll put itlhrough myself. There will be a storm afterward but I'll take my chances with that. It's a once-in-a-lifetime experiment that has never been done before." "You could have gotten volunteers." "Could I? If the subject had prior knowledge, it would have vitiated all the results. wouldn't it?" Fahy was gloating. "I'll think it over," I said. week later, when the terrible news broke. There had been a dreadful accident in the Fahy laboratory. One of the shockers had failed to operate. Dr. Fahy had opened the cage that should have turned off the high voltage through an interlock. In some inexplicable way he had received a tenthousand-volt jolt across the chest. After intensive first-aid he had finally come around. As I arrived, he was being carried out of the laboratory on a stretcher. One of his young assistants was in tears. "How is he?" I asked her. "He'll live -- but he's a very sick man," she said. After she had gone, I examined the cage where the accident had occured. I turned off the power at the main panel and went directly to the interlock. It took but a few seconds to remove the override wire I had inserted the night before and restore the interlock circuit to its normal state. Then I set off to my office to write a report about the mechanical failure of the interlock to the shocker. That night, for the first time in many months, I slept through without a single hunger pain.  is a monstrously clever man who doesn't like anything and whose job is to delight his readers by sharing his cynicism with them, while disliking them beyond all else. The above may ap)ly to many fields of reviewing, but I've never believed it applied to reviews of science-fiction books. I feel it more important to cover the books that should be read than to warn people from the bad ones -- and I'm always delighted when I have a list of good works. It may not give me as many chances it serves the readers. Dealing with books I like presents problems, of course. For one thing. I'm farther out on a thinner limb -- enumerating the ways in which a novel can fail is not difficult and involves hardly any risk David Gerrold yesterday's children David Gerrold David Gerrold Gordon R. Dickson Frederik Pohl John W. Campbell John Taine F. H. George W.P. Jolly at all. But the lack of these faults does not necessarily make a good book. Even technical writing" excellence can do no more than make a barely acceptable one. Some of the newer writers show more technical excellence than we've had in the field before, yet I find their adaptations of the avant-garde themes from Story magazine of the early thirties boring, no matter how well done. The elements in a story that usually please me most em to lie in the writer himself. He must have a wide range of interests and enthusiasms. These should include a liking for and knowledge of the scientific aspects of our civilization  as ' well as human and cultural developments. He must enjoy playing with a variety of future possibilities. He must have a real and varied interest in science fiction for itself. And he must enjoy writing and watching his plots and characters develop, just as he would enjoy seeing another writer's story develop while reading it. It isn't enough to like being a writer or winning approval from a clique -- he must find enough pleasure in writing science fiction to put every bit of himself into it for his own approval. If you can get all that together you've got an author of merit. I think we've been lucky enough to add such a writer to the field recently. David Gerrold has had four novels published within the last year or less, the first being a collaboration with Larry Niven which had serious faults, but also many strong virtues. The Flying Sorcerers, previously reported here.) The others are solo flights and they look very promising in sum. His Space Skimmer (Ballantine, #) is apparently the first of a series, from what I've been told. Incidentally, the gadget on the cover looks like some artist's attempt at symbolism but is actually a very good depiction of the ship in the story -- something of an ultimate dream of spaceships, around which the plot develops. A thousand years before the story begins, the Empire of the Galaxy had extended itself beyond its ability to communicate and was falling to pieces. The skimmers were created to solve the problems, but they went out and were never heard from again. The Empire fell and each component of it evolved its own culture and life style or form. As the story develops a barbarian who must flee his miserable world discovers a skimmer and takes off in it. But he understands its operation so poorly that he has to seek assistahee. Each new addition to the crew provides new problems, and each introduces new cultures and more mysteries about the problems that wrecked the Empire. The plot is a little thin -- probably because this story basically sets up the situation for others to come. But the characters are good -- their interrelationships provide interest and tension and the ship grows to be a major character in the story. I for one will be interested in seeing more of the adventures. The book gets a qualified recommendation as the beginning of what may be an excellent series. ' Children (Dell, #i ) has nothing to do with wonderchildren. The characters are adults, but true children of the impersonal nature of war's evolution into the future. All the action takes place aboard a long-put-of-date destroyer, manned by people assigned to the ship because of their failure to merit better positions. Its Captain, Brandt, is a man who has given up responsibility. First Officer Korie is either a madman with an obsession to fight or a genius at doing the impossible. The two officers are totally opposed and the crew is caught in the middle. The story begins in the course of a chase after an enemy ship -- it ends Vith the resolution of the chase. And the enemy (the "bogie") throughout is only a light on the screens -- and the war is simply a development of centuries of war. The characterization and conflict of characters are excellent. The tension mounts steadily as the characters evolve. The technical details of the ship and its method of extralight travel are developed fully and credibly. (There's no reason for the awkward present-tense style, but it ceases to bother after a while). The only real flaw is unfortunately major. The ending, while well prepared, is not an adequate resolution. The whole story has centered on the character of Korie. The ending seems to push the resolution of that character aside, as if the reader were not involved with him. (And nothing could be less true.) If the rest of the novel hadn't been excellent, this might have been acceptable. As it is, Gerrold has written a damned good book that becomes unsatisfactory only in the last two or three pages. It does, however, prove the ability of Gerrold to handle backgrounds, character, technical details and almost every aspect of the science-fiction novel with passion and with marvelous inventiveness. I T IS in his When Harlie Was One (Ballantine, #) that Gerrold proves what a fine sciencefiction writer he can be. This is a first-rate novel. Much of it was IF published in stories appearing in Galaxy Magazine, but this book is not a collection of novelettes -- Gerrold has written this version as a true, continuous novel, with a considerable development. The story centers on a computer, Harlie, who was designed to be as human as possible. He's one year old when the story opens. He is under the tutelage of a psychologist, David Auberson. And he's in danger, because the company that built him is under new management and determined to scrap him if he can't prove he is financially valuable. Harlie faces immininent death. What does he do? He is an adult in intelligence, but immature. So he overloads his inputs by feedback and goes on a "trip." He writes kooky verse. And he gets on a binge of discussions about the nature of God and of human love, etc. When pressed for proof of his value he comes up with a demand for more funds to build a G.O.D. machine to make him omniscient. By now there's a question of his sanity as well of his value -- and even his father-figure psychologist can't be sure of the answer. The characters and their evolution in the story could not have been better handled. Harlie advances from precocious immaturity to a true person -- one both fully human and fully robotic. Gradually we see and believe as he transfers to being the consulting psychologist for Auberson in his troubles with the love affair that is the sub-plot of the novel. The long discussions on religion and love are done so well and with such a lack of the obvious or banal that they are as interesting as any plot development -- and so integrated that they are plot development. The technical background of Harlie is handled convincingly and with an inventiveness that makes it a major part of the problem and resolution. And the ending of the story isn't a simple solution to the immediate problem, but an extension and deepening of all that has gone before. It's a clever book -- and a darned good one. The novel is being issued in hardcover as a Science Fiction Book Club selection. Let me recommend that every member choose it. It's one of the best novels of the year. G ordon r. dickson showed himself top-flight many years ago and has gone right on doing so. For further evidence, see his The Outposter (Lippincott, #). Here is another of the novels in which Dickson takes on a young man who has come to a realization of the True Facts before anyone else in the culture knows what is developing. This book bears no direct relation to Dickson's famous Dorsai series, but the connection must be made by the reader, nevertheless. The novel takes place at an early stage of Earth's colonization of the stars. The problem is to make the colony worlds self-supporting and then to somehow resist the encroachment of aliens -- closely related problems. Added to all is the fact that Earth has let itself become a mess and now must ship out much of its population -- but it can't afford to support or defend its outcasts. I didn't find this novel quite as good as the best of the Dorsai series, but that may be due to the fact that -- as a professional writer who gets involved in the method of other writers -- I am becoming too familair with the way Dickson handles this type of idea. Nevertheless, Dickson's deep interest in the way the past must affect the future and his always ingenious handling of the sociology of aliens combine to make it a very good novel. His exploration of the value of outcasts from one culture when exposed to a different one gives this novel something not to be found in similar degree in the Dorsai books. I recopimend it highly. our old masters and a surprising one in his collection. The Gold at the Starbows End (Ballantine, #). The three short stories are excellent examples of the type of fiction we expect from him, one of which I was happy to be able to buy from him for Worlds of Fantasy. There are' also two very long' novelettes -- and here is where the surprise comes in. Both were published in #, so they are quite recent. Both are good. And both represent Pohl as most readers do not expect him to be. Most of the readers of this magazine must have read The Merchants of Venus Underground. This is straight adventure fiction in its best form. It takes the modern beliefs in what Venus is like -- which make fiction seem hopeless on a planet so inhospitable to life -- and gives us a realistic colony struggling at the edge of failure. Pohl then puts forward as hero the type of man who might survive there and builds a convincing story out of the conflicting interests of the hero and a tourist who hires him to explore the traces of a mysterious other race. Good from start to excellent finish. The Gold at the Starbow s End is a story I will not try to summarize. When I finished reading it, I called up Pohl to tell him it was the best novelette I'd read for several years -- and I was completely IF sincere. It should win a Hugo and a Nebula award -- it deserves all honors. It's a hard story to pin down, using some surprising extensions into the future from Pohl's interest in such things as number theory and mental development. It's very much Pohl at his best. And yet, somehow, the whole thing seems like a new and unexpected development in Pohl's writing career. The story is basically in the grand tradition of romance and human supremacy from the good old days, yet it mixes its vision with the bitter truth from modern science fiction. The novelette seems to have taken the so-called new wave and old wave, combined the best of both and come up with something uniquely its own self. The collection is Pohl at his top form, better than his previous ones. I can't recommend it too highly. A nother collection is a must, L but this one comes from more than a generation ago. John W. Campbell's Cloak of A'esir (Lancer, #, is back in print after far too many years. (This was originally issued in a small hardcover edition by Shasta Publishers, but never previously in softcover form.) Seven of the "Don A. Stuart" stories are here, including the two stories of Aesir and the matchless tale of the ultimate destiny of Man -- Forgetfulness, It's very good to have these stories available again -- and good to know that a great deal more of Campbell's fiction will soon be republished. In our field, anything from the early 'thirties seems almost prehistoric. While most of the Don A. Stuart fiction will stand the test of so much time, very few other stories from that distant past will endure so well. We've learned a great deal in forty years and we've constantly redefined science fiction as it has evolved. John Taine, Eric Temple Bell took up science fiction as a pure Some of the original covers and inside illustrations are still available! Some are already framed. Send stamped selfaddressed envelope for Ibt and prices. Box #, Greenwich Vllage Station, New York, N.Y. # avocation, or hobby. He was a distinguished mathematician, but his fiction dealt more with the emotional impact of science and the future than with science for itself. And for years one of his novels has been considered a classic. I read The Time Stream (currently available from Dover Publications at #) out of order and over a period of years as I could find the old magazines from #I and #. I could recognize its merits but was left with some loose ends -- natural under the conditions of my reading. Now I've had a chance to read the story in one sitting. I know now why it was considered a classic. It was a pioneering work dealing with variable time (though this is still confusing) -- and the emotional quality deriving from its sweeping concept was new and fresh when it was first published. The book deals with a nearly perfect society in the future (or past, since time here is circular) and present-day men who dip into the time stream to be swept into that society. But men of that "future" are also dipping into the time stream and going to the far past, tracing their own doom and the cyclic doom of all societies between. And, unfortunately, in Eos, which is the Eden of the future, there are the snake and the apple. The book still is not entirely clear and much of its luster seems to have faded with time and changing qualities of writing. There are no real characters and the motivations are often cloudy and unreal. Yet there is a fascination to The Time Stream. I think the volume is well worth the price, particularly since Dover has done its usual splendid job of printing and binding and has also included four of the original Frank R. Paul illustrations, very well reproduced. Dover Publications (# Varick Street, New York, N.Y. #) offer a large selection of sciencefiction and adventure classics that are always good buys. I would recommend that any serious reader write for their free list. Most bookstores carry only a few. Incidentally, Dover also sells a series of "Teach Yourself' Books. I've seen two of these, both priced at #: Cybernetics, by F. H. George; and Electronics, by W. P. Jolly. I have no intention of reviewing self-help books, but these are too good to pass up. They won't make a professional scientist out of anyone, but they will give the simplest and most accurate introduction to an understanding of their subjects I've seen. They also have lucid, modern diagrams -- something sadly lacking in many books -- and are worth more than the price asked for them.  IF to these symbiotic aliens. Yet life and love depended on a He! T he laboratory was roomy and equipped to the ceiling and I hated every antiseptic inch of it, especially the inches comprising the cage. I was in the cage and the only thing I had with me was a boot. It should have been a gun because that was what I had made a grab for after my hasty rush through the water toward the beach a short time ago. "Hey, dumdum," I called. The cage had no bars -- it was simply a big box with walls made of strong metal screen. I banged on the screen by the door and called again. My kidnaper was about twenty feet away and as busy as could be with a batch of chemicals and test tubes. He was big, blond, naked, beautiful and one-hundred-per cent insane. Every time he looked at me he went blind. Each time I said something to him he went deaf. And that made no sense for he seemed to be able to see and hear normally otherwise. I gave the door a kick and he cast a glance my way and chuckled. Plainly he knew that he had something in the cage and his senses had been alert enough for him to snatch me off the beach and carry me here. That much I could understand. He must have had a brainstorm because he rushed out of the lab and came back a few minutes later with a handful of weeds. There was a four-inch space at the bottom of the cage and he shoved the weeds under it and grinned at me. Evidently I was supposed to have lunch now. I tried to kick the weeds at him but he turned too quickly and sped back to his test tubes. "Which culture?" he said and picked up a vial and examined it. What amazed me was that I understood everything he said. His speech was similar to ancient Chinese and I was a language expert. "Hey, dumdum," I called. "Come and let me out. Im no animal -- I'm a girl. You know what a girl is." He didn't turn around, so busy was he preparing that culture. I slammed the screen with the flat of my hand and after a while he came over and looked in at me. For some reason he went blind again. Poking his nose against the mesh, he squinted and blinked. "I don't understand how I could have missed something as big as you," he said. "Where have you been hiding? I could have sworn there wasn't another large animal for miles and piles." I slammed the screen where his nose touched it and he' jumped back. "Let me out," I yelled. He stood a short distance away IF and squinted at me out of big sad eyes. T#I do it painlessly. And Til try not to kill you, but I can't promise anything." H e went back to his puttering and I paced the cage for several minutes. I put on the boot and tried to kick a hole in the screen. It was then that I noticed the watch on my wrist. I wasn't naked after all. Tying the piece of wire to the band, I dangled the watch outside the cage and swung it like a pendulum. All of a sudden the wire knot loosened and the watch fell on the floor about three yards away. Dumdum stepped on it when he came to visit me again. He said, "Ouch," and picked off the watch that stuck to his sole. He held it a fraction of an inch away from his eyes, blinked at it a few times and then threw it away. He came on over to the cage and looked at me. His eyes grew bleary and I knew that this time it wasn't only from blindness. He was feeling sorry because of what he was going to do to me. "'This thing in the cage isn't a guinea pig," I said. "You carried me from the lake, remember? I had two arms and legs, I was soft and cuddly and I stank. Damn you to hell, what's wrong with you?" "I have a feeling," he said. "This time it will work. You're going to give it all back to me. I'll have Radena again." "I don't know what that is but I hope it rots," I said and, leaping to the sidescreen, I kicked at the same spot I had kicked before. The wire began to give. I waited until he went away and then I unwound wires around the weak spot in the screen and kicked like crazy. A hole began to appear and I kept kicking until it was big enough to crawl through  Scrambling past the mad scientist, I got out of the building and ran around a corner and fell headlong into a cemetery. It took me a few seconds to realize what the place was. This was where he buried his guinea pigs after he murdered them...He had made a stone for each one and there must have been hundreds of them in the long narrow rows. Behind me he said, ?You must have teeth like razors the way you bit through that screen." "I'm not an animal," I told him at the top of my lungs. "I'm too bright to be an animal. I know what this place is -- it's where you put what youon't need anymore. Here, I'll show you." Digging like a fiend, I made a hole in the ground after which I hauled off the boot and buried it. "I see you're a carnivore." He kneeled and dug up the boot and gave it back to me. "You can't hide your bone here. This is sacred ground." He picked me up and took me to the cage and I sat in a corner and watched while he repaired the hole in the screen. "You're a smart little beast," he said. "You chose the weakest spot in this wall." I didn't want to savor the sight of him. But he was so damned beautiful. His back was big and smooth and I stared at it with a mixed kind of hunger. Then I saw something move on it and I stared more intently. All at once I recoiled. Quietly crawling to the screen I looked at his back. The skin rippled. I began to move away from him. Beautiful he might be, but he was untouchable. He was wearing a festoon. Half a mile from this lab was a pretty little lake with a patch of trees bordering one side of it. Hidden in the trees was a fancy space cruiser that should have put down in the New York port on Earth twenty hours ago. Landing on an uninhabited planet for no other reason than to take a bath in a lake was something only an idiot or a spoiled brat would do. I'd been called spoiled plenty of times. My name was Raven Pek and my father had too much money. He bought me anything I wanted but he didn't teach me how to be satisfied with myself. All I did was roam rround in my little ship, looking for something to do. My clothes were on the beach by the lake. The supposedly uninhabited planet had at least one person on it and that person had plucked me out of the water and made me his prisoner. As for the festoon -- it was only a tale. A festoon was a parasite that lived somewhere in the Vigil Cluster. It was said to be immortal and it lived inside a host. It didn't harm the wearer, in fact a symbiotic relationship was established that was beneficial to both. The festoon nourished itself on the host's spare energy and the host enjoyed good health. The story was a myth and everybody knew it. I knew it. But my kidnaper was wearing something translucent, something that rippled like water and it couldn't be a natural part of his body. Nor coiild it be a myth. M y brooding was interrupted when the cage door swung open and the mad chemist walked in to look down at me. IF "No," I yelled and tried to get away. He picked me up, carried me out and put me down on one of the slabs. Then he picked up a hypodermic. I don't know what made me decide to pray. I used to like religion when I was little, but I hadn't thought about God in years. Anyhow, I rose to my knees, mad a steeple of my hands and began saying goodbye to everything. This man was mad and I doubted my chances of surviving after he injected me with his alien solution. I didn't see his first reaction. I was certain that his vision cleared. Whatever it was that had been making him partially blind must have lost its control over him for a few moments. This was what I thought then. Later I realized his subconscious had forced him to see me before it was too late. But he did see me, not as an animal but as a human being. The hypo fell from his hand and shattered on the floor. I looked up and saw him standing there, his stiffening in shock. "Oh, God," he said softly and his hands rose to cover his eyes. All at once something weird happened. His hands dropped and his eyes looked different. They were clouded, as if a thin film had slid  over them. I saw myself fade from his vision and from his mind and it was as if I weren't there. Like a smear on a window I had been wiped out of his existence'. In amazement I watched as he began looking around the lab with a puzzled expression,watched as he finally gave a shrug and walked away. He went out of the building and I sat on the slab and tried to figure out what was going on. Eventually I followed him. H e was standing on a hill and I ran after him. He tramped through a large garden of vegetables, walked down a path between two streams of water and came to a halt. From where I stood I could see another building. This one was long and narrow, and the greater part of it was built into the ground so that only about the top four feet of it was visible. The entrance was a steep stairwell scarred from rain and wind and choked with decaying leaves. The man raced down the steps and threw himself at the two great doors. He battered at them with his fists, then looked anxiously about, as if he had forgotten how to open them. Several minutes passed before he pressed his shoulder against the back edge of the door on the right. Both immediately slid open and he hurried inside. I was right behind him. I had never seen anything like that building. It contained a long series of walled-in cubicles. Their front partitions were made of transparent glass or plastic. There must have been hundreds of them for they ran far beyond my line of vision, side by side, to the left and right of a narrow corridor, and each one of them held dummies, mannikins. At lt that was what I thought they were. The man stood before the pane of the first cubicle. He raised his hands and said, "It isn't done yet, Radena. We haven't lasted out the terror. But be assured that we wiU." X said behind him. "They're all dead." Living people couldn't sit as those people sat. There were four in that first cubicle -- a middle-aged man and woman, a young woman and a child. Dressed in blue robes, they sat stiffly on a velvet-coVcred couch and their eyes appeared to be focused straight ahead. The older couple was holding hands. The young woman beside them was slender and beautiful. A strand of her long golden hair touched the face of the child that lay. in her arms. "Radena," said the madman outside the cubicle. Taking a step forward, he lifted one hand and placed it flat against the clear window. "Speak to me. I want to hear you." After a long moment he sank to his knees and both hands went up to the glass. Behind him I said, "She's dead. She can't speak to you." All of a sudden there came a whirring sound followed by a metallic click and someone spoke. In this vlt of the dead there were noises, of living things. "Tero," said a woman. "I speak but it is not my real voice you are hearing. Your presence energizes the recording mechanism. I was compelled to make the record because my strength is nearly gone. Listen to me, Tero. We have called back all the physicians. They have joined us in the ancestral vaults. Look at them and know the truth. My darling, it is too late. We have no more time. The bacteria has penetrated the filtering systems and we are dying. You cannot find the serum in time to save us. I have called and called but you do not respond. Your mother and father beg you to come to us. Give it up, Tero. You broke your heart trying to save us and now eternity awaits. I want to enter it with you. Please hurry." The madman wept in his blindIF ness. His dull eyes lifted and saw movement where there was death and vacuum. His brain believed the lie. He perceived nothing that was real. "Patience, Radena," he said gently. "We'll fmd the cure. We are working night and day. Nothing can stop me. I love you." Slowly he climbed to his feet and turned away, walked past me without knowing I was there. He left the sanctuary and swiftly climbed the steps leading to the fields and streams. up my belt and gun and put them on. I left my clothes on the sand. From there I went to hunt for the festoons. In a nearby valley I found hundreds of them. In its independent state a festoon looked like a cube of glittering quartz a foot high and as many inches across. It appeared to be hard and impenetrable but legend said that it was soft. I approached a cube that rested in a patch of clover. Kneeling, I thrust my hands into the thing and it closed over me like a tender vise. As if from the other end of a long tunnel, a voice spoke in a hollow whisper. The inhumanness of the sound shocked me. This was the voice of alienness and it was intelligent. "Welcome," said the festoon. "You desire me for your own?" "No. I only want some information." Along the endless tunnel came the whisper, "In exchange for a sample of your life force?" "That depends on how much of it you consider a fair exchange." The cube seemed to flow around my wrists. "You are creative." "I assume that means I have energy to spare. But what if you decide to take it all?" "I destroy nothing," said the festoon. I wanted to yank my hands out of the thing and get away, but I remained still. "What do you do with the life force of a host?" "The word is 'companion.' We arc not parasites. We are happy with a companion and require but a small portion of his energy. Already I am using yours and you do not even notice. Festoons and Spenicki rose together from primal molecules. They care for lis. We love them. We live as one." "There is only a single Spenicki left." "We could not combat the disease and they perished one by one. A certain number concealed themselves in the ancestral vaults in hopes that the few immunes would find a cure. It was all for nothing. The companions are dead." "One of your kind is a criminal. It lives in the man Tero and controls his senses. It makes him blind and deaf." Did the hollow voice chuckle? "I know of no maverick festoon." "Never mind what you think you know. Tell me how to open the man's eyes and ears." "A festoon has little will of its own once it is insid a companion. Catch the man at a moment when his emotions are strong. Command him to hear, command his eyes to open and you will have the thing you desire. But you may not revel in his awareness. Beware of -- " "Don't lecture me," I Said. "What happens to you now that there are no more companions?" "We wait for others to come." "The maverick festoon in the man wants to own him as long as it can. It blinds him so that he knows nothing of what goes on about him. How long can this continue if no one interferes?" Like a whisper from the void came the answer: "For as long as he lives." "I'll put a stop to it. I'll force him to command the thing to come out ofhiih." "You are leaving me now?" I am. "Wait. Grant me total entrance." "No," I said coldly. "You deny your own spirit. Even as we communicate you grow warm. You desire me, yet you say no. My species lives in loneliness and hunger." "Release me." My hands came free in an instant. The festoon rested on the grass like a block of quartz and I swiftly walked away from it. Where was I going? To track a man, to trace his footsteps. I stalked Tero as if he were already my own. H e ate from his garden so that he would have the strength to continue his hunt for specimens.  Inside his body the maverick festoon nourished itself, lazed and perhaps dreamed and the thin portion of it which shbwed on Tero's back looked sleek and smooth and glittered in the sunlight. He was easy to watch and easyo follow. He caught a wriggling creature in the fields. I followed him into the lab and watched him murder it with his experimenting. Then I stood behind him as he wept and buried it in the cemetery. "Festoon, you're a disgrace to your species," I said. Tero gave no sign that he heard me. With a chisel he carved a IF picture of the animar on a fine piece of stone. "You've blinded him completely to me, haven't you?" I said to the creature he wore. I knew it could hear me because it was using Tero's senses as if they belonged to it. "You would have let him kill me," I said. "It was his subconscious that forced you to let him see me at the last minute." Tero went away" to find another specimen and I let him go. I was hungry but the vegetables in the garden were not to my liking. I found an orchard of white fruit that tasted sweet and, as I stood and ate and did some dreaming of my own, something touched my foot. A festoon rested against my leg. In a moment it flowed around my foot and cherished it. I started to object and then changed my mind. "What is that noise?" "You hear with keenness," said the festoon. The sound was gone then. Or was it? I looked about. There were only the orchard, the ground, the clear sky, yet there was an odd throbbing sound in the air and it seemed to be coming from nearby. "Someone is mourning," I said. "Walk through the trees for a little while and you will see," said the festoon, releasing my foot. Beyond the orchard was a valley where thousands of festoons congregated. There were large ones and small ones. Like chunks of ice they decorated the valley and their glitter was blinding. Beside me came the single specimen in a graceful rolling motion. As soon as it paused I plunged my. foot into it. "What are they doing?" I said. "Listen." Their grief was heavy and their need intense. Pressing cloe to one another, they sought comfort in an almost desperate manner. Suddenly they perceived my presence. In an instant their minds approached mine. I questioned. They answered. They let me see what had gone before on the planet. F irst came the dawn of the world and this was marked by upheavals. Then came the afternoon and the birth of man. Genes crossed in strange patterns that produced a two-fold entity, a double psyche or a twinned soul. A Spepicki newly born was a human infant and a festoon. The second was no more alien than the first. The two were one organism. On rare occasions when a festoon abandoned its young companion the child died. The festoon also died. The presence of the creature was essential to the child until it arrived at puberty, after which it rejected the festoon. This joined the common pool of festoons and waited until summoned by any Spenicki who desired it. They were unusual twins, spawned together to separate as the human soul groped toward maturity, the one to stand and wait, the other to strive for outward meaningfulness. The Spenicki were gentle. They were also intelligent. In the beginning they went to the stars, traded their culture and goods with people on other worlds, became known as the scholars of the heavens. Their language was adopted by many and the knowledge of the festoons spread. But there was much wrangling between star systems and eventually the Spenicki withdrew and went no more into space. On their own world they grew mightily, but not as warriors. They built, but not a great deal. Their scattered cities were temporary shelters where travelers paused to rest. The Spenicki were natural rovers and they had once again begun to look at the stars when the epidemic came among them. It was ironic that the brotherhood of festoon and man brought about the death of half the partnership. Knowledge of medicine was scant. Who needed a physician when one could take for himself a festoon who possessed the world's knowledge? The twin saw into the labyrinths of the mortal body, viewed it as a house to be kept in order, had the power to control the inner workings and knew those inner workings intiihately. One day came a storm with lightning flashes so severe that the higher reaches of the atmosphere may have been disturbed. Soon after that the dust began drifting down. It was yellow and heavy and soon after it started to fall the Spenicki began to die. The festoons grew frantic because all their efforts to destroy the bacteria failed. Now there were no more companions -- there was no more joy, no warmth in the brotherhood because there were no more brothers. Now the festoons gather and feared and became almost human. They wanted a miracle. They wanted me to give them a miracle. I understood what they meant. I was to go back where I came from, bring my people here and present them to their brothers. Were we not all one and the same? We weren't the same and I told them so. The rest of the galaxy wanted no part of them. Festoons were taboo. M y explanation puzzled them, made them ask more questions. IF How could I teach a thing that it was repulsive when it had been conditioned to believe otherwise? I told them about racism-. This bewildered them. I talked of prej. udice and they said it was illogical. I explained independent pride and they eagerly agreed that this was a good thing and then they spoke of a two-in-one singular twin. I continued talking and they continued to reply, but neither of us could compromise. "You are not moved by our desolation," said the festoon who was by now wrapped securely around my foot. I denied it. "We mourn," they said. I shrugged. "Our lifespan is great," they said and my glance turned cold.  "We are your brothers," they said and I denied it in a loud and forceful voice. "Another," they said and I understood and became angry. I said, "My kind are all the same." "Unlikely," said the festood at my feet. The creature suddenly rejected me without being commanded. It set me free as if the contact with me were unpleasant. That made me more angry than I had been. "I'm sorry," I said to the throng in the valley. "You can't expect me to do the impossible. Maybe the Spenicki wanted you but nobody else does." They didn't hear. They were as deaf as Tero. away from the valley and away from the orchard, tramped through the fields and climbed the hill, stood on the path and gazed down at the sanctuary whre the dead remnants of the Spenicki race sat and waited for time to destroy their atoms. I knew the fertoon in Tero was crafty. Would it permit him to know that his family was dead, let him know the world was empty, take a chance on the brother's choosing swift and final dissolution? Of course it wouldn't. The festoon was fighting for its life. It had blocked me out of Tero's awareness because I was strange. Anything strange might mean the end. Allow the brother to mow his lawn, dig in his garden, hunt for guinea pigs and grovel before the shrine of Radena, but never for an instant let him suspect the truth. I had wasted enough time. Climbing onto the roof of the sanctuary I gathered a pile of sticks and dead leaves. Then I set my gun at its lowest heat and set fire to the pile. Black smoke began to sweep upward and the wind took it. Several minutes passed and Tero came out of the lab. He saw the smoke and came running. "Stop," he cried. I knew he was shouting at the wind. The festoon wouldn't permit him to see me. Breaking a limb from a tree, Tero jumped to the roof of the building and swept the burning pile onto the ground. As I had known he would, he immediately went down to the building to make certain that all was safe. I was there and waiting for him. He raced in through the door and hurried over to the first cubicle. "Radena, are you well?" "Radena is not well," I said, but his ears were sealed by the festoon. I gazed at him for a long moment before I turned and aimed the gun. What I wanted to do was blat the face of Radena, but then the effect might be ruined. He had to see her body topple over as the vacuum inside the cubicle was destroyed by inrushing air. The gun was still set at its lowest power. I didn't increase it. Aiming at the top left corner of the transparent waH, I squeezed the trigger. The heat beam took out a corner of the wall and a section of the roof. Not waiting to see the bodies fall from the couch, I whirled to Tero. "See your dead woman?" I said. "Look at her and then forget her. Put her in the past where she belongs. Live in the present and in the future with me. I'm here. I'm real. I'm not a ghost." The emotions of Tero were stronger than the grip of the festoon and he suddenly saw what was happening in the cubicle. All at once his body went rigid. I could see him trying to deny the vision before him but his emotions were too intense and the delicate chains of the festoon were annihilated. My hand was pressed against my mouth. I tasted blood and knew I had bitten myself. I had wanted to take pleasure from his pain but I couldn't. The horror on his face was not satisfying to me. His terror seemed to grow in intensity and I was afraid he would die of shock. past him, hurried out of the building. I didn't stop running until I was well away from the place. He came after me, I watched as he climbed the hill and I wanted to shout at him to hurry, to look alive, to be aware of me as a girl who had wanted him from the very beginning. He moved so slowly and he looked so old. The sunlight was being cruel to him. IF But it wasn't the sun. His spirit was dead. He reached the rise of the hill and came to a halt and I found myself looking at a zombie. His eyes were filled with tears. His arms hung at his sides. Even the brightness of his hair had faded. Limp and almost lifeless, he stood and looked at the ground. I shivered and gritted my teeth. "Get rid of the festoon," I said harshly. "It's your enemy. It lied to you." For a long minute he made no response. Then his head finally came up and for the Hrst time he looked at me. I thought I was prepared for that first glance, in fact I was ready for practically anything, but no scorn or rage blasted at me from his eyes. Not even hatred. What he gave me was indifference -- nothing. I was there but I didn't matter. The distance between us might as well have been a light-year. Raising both arms toward the sky he said, "I tried," and his voice was gentle. "In my own way I live and die. Festoon, go from me." The creature came out of his pores like thick perspiration and this required no more than a few seconds. Its glittering mass collected on his chest and clung there, seemingly loath to let him go. From where I stood I could almost hear its faint wail of sorrow. "Goodbye, old friend," said Tero. Then I knew. I swayed with shock. This was no maverick festoon. Tero's will had been its will. It had hidden only what he asked to have hidden. The thing had always done what he wanted. He had preferred illusion and pain to the peace of death. He had remained in his blind torment for the purpose of seeing the one face that held meaning for him. Now that was gone. The festoon loosened its hold on his chest and dropped to the ground. I knew something else then. I knew death. I saw it come in waves. Tero stood silent and unafraid as time wreaked its final havoc upon him. For how long had the festoon brother held his body together as glue held bits of old paper? For a thousand years? For ten thousand? Or more? His marvelous physique was destroyed before my eyes. The gold of his hair became gray. Bones crumbled. Flesh shrank. The whole of what had been a man caved inward like weakened sod. In front of my eyes Tero died. His great bulk swayed, tottered, fell apart. What scattered at my feet were a few bits of debris.  and R C' i(ht ' s wA, ' (' w V ( ,;)( !  Dear Mr. Jakobsson: In the Reading Room for August, #, Lester del Key considers the feasibility of a brief description of science fiction as opposed to fantasy. He states that, in effect, one is forced to accept no definition at all or only a circular one. Now it is a simple and easf proposition in formal logic to show that a dictionary either contains an undefined term or else all of its definitions are circular. Mr. del Keys observation is an extension of this proposition, no doubt as readily demonstrated within the propositional calculus. Fortunately, for he had a sound reason for doing so, he refused to accept this formal rebuff and went on about the business at hand, that of phrasing a succinct statement of what sf is about. Mr. del Rey is not a man easily put upon, or off, and his explication of the state of affairs b convincing. His key words and phrases are these: rationality, fiction, alternate, and sf is that fiction which deals rationally with alternate possibilities. It will be objectionable to some that science has short shrift in his formulation. Science is one of the actualities ofsf Science is the binder, no less than the J base. To paraphrase from the ancient # texts of rhetoric, science is the unity  and coherence of sf, whereas specula tion provides the emphasis and the ; difference.  It is science that raises the coefficient " of credibility to the level of consent. It is possible to go a little more in the  direction that science is essential. The universality of science is a major component of the credibility of sf And sf is the point of maximal convergence of fiction imitating science and fiction , imitating reality. Foe sf imitates science in the Aristotelian sense that art imitates nature. There is a pervasive instinct for "other' and it is science that , is, in this context, the compelling frtime that holds the work in its proper sh(qe. Science is public, knowledge and has a social dimension (John Ziman). It is upon the first of these, among other things, that fiction relies for concurrence with its inventions and for its background and milieu. Fiction is a part of the social fabric and sfis a part of the fabric of science, if only a patch thereon. The "scientific method" is an integral part of any conception of science and it is implicit that, the use of science in sf brings with it the scientific method and leads to agreement with and reliance upon the imaginative constructs of this fiction. It is the sf writer's use of the precepts of the scientific method that lends corroboration to what otherwise would be an unconvincing narrative. Thus it seems at least to me that Mr. del Rey's definition should have a favorable reception -- with the proviso that science is a necessary addition.As to fantasy -- Much madness is divinest sense To a discerning eye... Alexander Doniphan Wallace Graduate Research Professor University of Florida Dear Mr. Jakobsson: With all due respect to Mr. del Rey, fm afraid I find his definition of sf much too narrow.  Fiction that deals rationally with alternate possibilities is obviously one mans description of what he personally likes -- not necessarily what others like. And it manages to exclude most classic sf if not much of contemporary science fiiction. Certainly Doc Smiths improbable novels cannot be aassified as sf under Mr. Del Reys definition -- theyre not possible alternatives -- they re fantasies. And yet people obviously think of them as sf despite their logical absurdity. (Unless science took a swift turn to the left we just didnt have the technology to build a ship o Skylark's size and potential in #.) Also, what does possible mean? Isnt the background and development of Seven Days in May possible -- and isnt the story s setting a "possible alternative -- and isnt it "fiction handled rationally -- and doesn't this, by Mr. del Reys definition, make it perfect sf? Yet aren't novels of the Seven Days in May genre precisely what Mr. del Rey condemns? Further, Mr. del Reys definition is apparently born of a feeling on his part that the boundaries of modern sf are becoming too blurred. Why he considers this bad I frankly don't understand -- to me it indicates that sf is filled with vitality, a vitality that cannot be contained by narrow definitions. Describing sf, giving it regular shape and size, is like trying to contain the wind -- a little bit always escapes and you're forced to become just a little larger in order to contain it all. It was once quite easy to pinpoint sf -- it was pulp fiction, badly written, adolescently conceived, dealing with journeys within the realm of scientific imagination. That was a generation ago and it covered everything from the worst to the best. Now things have changed and we find it impossible to explain just what it is about sf that we like or that, for us, makes it unique. Perhaps the most honest definition of science fiction is Damon Knight's: "Science fiction is what were pointing at when we say 'science fiction.  Gerard F. Conway Briarwood, N. V. More on this to come -- you'd better believe it. congratulates winner of the # Hugo to Your Scattered Bodies #o (The first of the Rhrerworld novels -- portions of which eppeared in this magazine. framing -- Artists reproduction of your sign with detailed description of your personal characteristics -- Includes Human Zodiac Supplement -- #. Specify Ohio #. Psychic. Send Name, Birthdate, Time. Location and #. magazirtes. Arkham House. Fantasy Press. LoveN.J. #. SF books, etc., for sale by other collectors. Sample Philosophy: The Nature of Form in Process; Information processing from Plato to present (hardcover). I I I pp... #, postage included. Writers: Publishing short-short SF with impact. Also, original, American #. Box G I I #, Flushing, New York I I #. tional Literary Magazine's S-F Issue #, Bruce McAllister, Editor Bruce McAllister, English Department, University of Redlands, Redlands, California #. authors. Shocking fiction, uncensored opinions, outson (Columnist in "Strategy and Tactics" Magazine) calls # A.D. "A Beautilly Unique Departure in War Games". For Free Catalogue of Adult Games and Canada. free. Autosuggestion. Box #-GY. Olympia, Washington #. Burning. # Cones plus Ceramic Stand...# Postpaid. t!pecify Jasmin. Bayberry. Lilac. Lavender through Astrology. IrKJividual Attention. Natal Chart alone #. Natal Chart plus progressed to Now. showing all Aspects your planets are in now -- and what they mean for You. Complete #. Send birthdate, place, time if known, BJ, P.O. Box #, sales arni highly qualified inquiries from more than or call Frank Brennan, Classified Advertising ManaSt., New York. N.Y. #. (#) MU #-#. How do you speak without a voice box? How does a woman live without a breast? You go into a cancer operation and all you care about is coming through alive. And you come through. You're alive. Now there you are, facing the hard part : How do you live with this drastic change? That's when you need the kind of hdp you can only get from someone who has been through the same thing, A woman who has had a breast removed reassures another woman who has just had the same operation. She teaches her special exercises. She helps with her clothes problems. She knows how shattering it can be, and helps her pick up the pieces. A man who has lost his voice box helps another man to speak again. Instruction, yes. But more important, encouragement; the example of someone who's lived through the same thing and overcome the same problem, "How can you possibly know what it's like?" "I've been there." That's our program for rehabilitation. It's not just enough to save your life ; we also care how well you live it. So if you need help, if you know someone who does, please" call our local Unit. We can help. American Cancer Society Remember the glaks, the broknips, the legits? Or the rizbhus, clqzts, hauhugs and other marvelous monsters that stirred your imagination, and swept you away to a world of pu re delight? You'll find them romping and stomping through some of the most imaginative stories that ever stretched your mind. Stories that will give you a row -- the kind of reading you simply won't be able to put down. Take advantage of our monstrously fabulous offer. Any # of the latest science fiction best sellers listed below can be yours for just #P! And you can even choose, if you wish, the year's big three: the #page, double volume coltion's equivalent of the Oscar): Isaac Asimov's latest, and many say, his Herbert's winner of Hugo and Nebula awards. Choose them, or any # books on this page for just #P to help cover shipping), and you're on your way to mind-bending membership in the Science Fiction Book Club. Join now...you needn't send any money: we'll bill you later. Dept. BL-#, Garden City. N.Y. # Please accept my application for membership in the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the # books whose numbers I have written in the boxes below Bill me )ust lOC (to help cover shipping) for all #. About every # weeks, send me the club's bulletin. "Things to Come." describing the # coming Selections and a variety of Alternate choices If I wish to receive both Selections. I need do nothing; they will be shipped to me automatically. Whenever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an Alternate, or no book at all. I will notify you by the date specified by returning the convenient form always provided I need take only # Selections or Alternates during the coming year, and may resign any time thereafter Most books are only #, plus a modest charge for shipping and handling (jccasionally, extra-value Selections are slightly higher entire introductory package within # days. Membership will be cancelled I owe nothing. Mr. Mrs Miss # The Hugo Winners. Vol. I  II. Giant #-in-l volume of # award-winning stories. # to #. Asimov introduces each. Pub. ed. S# # Mutant #: The Plastic Eaters by Kit Pedler and Gerry Davis. New bacteria f oes berserk causing ondon to melt. Pub. ed. S# #I The World Inside. Robert Silverberg. Shocking view of #th century, when man lives in giant towers with total sexual freedom. Pub. ed S# # When Harlie Was One by David Gerrold. The costliest, most complex computer -- as creative as the human brain -- begins to suffer from human weakness. Spec. Ed. #. Dune by Frank Herbert. Celebrated winner of Hugo and Nebula. Gripping tale of family exiled from their private planet to another, a barren desert Pub. ed # #. From This Day Forward by John Brunner. # spellbinding tales by the author of Stand On Zanzibar. Pub. ed. # #. The Wrong End ofTime. John Brunner. Threatened with destruction, America and Russia search for the only man capable of saving the world. Pub. ed. # # Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners," chosen by Sci-Fi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub ed. # with trial members... # The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov. The master's first novel in # years...and worth the wait for a fabulous trip to the year # Pub. ed h # #. Midsummer CentuiY by James Blish. the terrors of the #th century... confronted by #th century man. Pub. ed. # # A Time of Changes by Robert novel of strange planet where human beings must despise themselves. #I Nebula award winner. Spec. Ed. #. Again, Dangerous Visions, Harlan Ellison, ed. Forty-six pieces, short stories  novels. Explicit scenes and language may be oHenshre to some. Pub ed # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U S A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in Canada.  Fascinating New Novelette! Michael G. Coney The Birth of Environmental Quality Magazine Aside from naming some of our more celebrated contributors such as Ray Bradbury, Paul Ehrlich, Jacques Cousteau and Paolo Soleri, and mentioning a few interesting ideas like solar energy, organic burial. Wank el engines and cryogenic sperm banks, there is very little that space permits us to say about the environmental struggle except we're in it up to our gas masks. Send for your Complimentary Copy Now! Environmental Quality Magazine # Burbank Blvd.  North Hollywood, Calif. #I Name. # issues -- # You may cancel within I # days after receiving your free copy -- and owe nothing. (Please Print) Address. State  Zip  Bill Me D Check Enclosed Great new science-fiction titles from... Damon Knight Seven Rithians -- enemy aliens -- have landed on Earth. Six are disposed of. One breaks loose and must be found or disaster will follow. But how to detect a monster that can disguise itself as a man -- any man? AS# # Ray Russell A pious #-year-old girl one night flings off her clothes, tries to seduce her priest, spews a stream of obscenities. Obviously she is possessed! A handsome cleric is assigned the task of exorcising her. He knows there is only one way to cast out a devil from the body of a virgin... AN#I # By the editors of Galaxy Magazine For more than twenty years Galaxy has ranked as the foremost science-fiction magazine. It continually presents award-winning stories by all the top writers in the field. Award Books is proud to publish a select collection of recent fiction from the magazine -- a collection, in short, that's the best of the best. AN# # The exciting adventures of starship captain Matt Foyt... deep-space thrills and chills in every corner of the galaxy. The first two titles in the series are just off the presses... Charles Huntington Charles Huntington AS# # AS# # Please send me the science-fiction titles checked below, I enclose check or money order for (plus # for each book to cover postage and handling).   AS# AN#I AN# AS# AS# State (Offer good only in U.S.A.) Name Address. CityZip. ED January-February # Vol.#,No.# Issue I # Arnold E. Abramson, Publisher Lester del Rey, Feature Editor EjlerJakobsson, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Contributing Editor Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Jack Gaughan, Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director L. C. Murphy, Subscription Director Cover by David A. Hardy Universal Publishirig  Distributing Corporation. Arnold E. Abramson. President. Main Offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Single copy: #f. #-issue subscription: # in U.S., # elsewhere. Kingdom by Universal-Tandem Publishing Company, Ltd., # Gloucester Road. London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson, Chairman of the Board. Ralph Stokes, Managing Director. Single copy: #p. #-issue subscription in the United Kingdom: #. Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. The publishers assume no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in U.S.A. p For more than a decade, X Minus I ranked among the most popular shows ever to hit the air-waves. Starting soon, many radio stations will once again be featuring this famed drama series adapted from stories appearing either in Broadcasting will be resumed with new the foremost names in science fiction. X Minus I will thrill you, reward you, more than ever. So watch for it. Listen to it. Enjoy it! For further information, contact your local station or write to: Box # Seymour, Conn. # Being sundry notes for an abortive ethnography of the Asadi of Bosk Veld, fourth planet of the Denebolan system, as compiled from the journals (both private and professional), official reports, private correspondence, and tapes of Egan Chaney, cultural xenologist, by his friend and associate, Thomas Benedict. Preliminaries: reverie and departure From the private journals of Egan Chaney: There are no more pygmies. Intellectual pygmies perhaps, but no more of those small, alert, sway-backed black people of necessarily amenable disposition who lived in the dead-andgone Ituri rain forests -- a people, by the way, whom I do not wish to sentimentalize (though perhaps I may). Pygmies no longer exist -- they have been dead for centuries. But on the evening before the evening when Benedict dropped me into the singing fronds of the Synesthesia Wild under three bitter moons they lived again for me. I spent that last evening in base camp rereading Turnbull's The Forest People. Dreaming, I lived with the people of the Ituri. I underwent nkumbi, the ordeal of circumcision. I dashed beneath the belly of an elephant and jabbed that monstrous creature's flesh with my spear. Finally I took part in the festival of the molimo with the ancient and clever BaMbuti. All in all, I suppose, my reading was a sentimental exercise. Turnbull's book had been the first and most vivid ethnography I had encountered in my undergraduate career -- and even on that last night in base camp on the hostile world of BoskVeld, a planet circling the star Denebola, his book sang in my head like the forbidden lyrics of the pygmies' molimo, like the poignant melodies of BoskVeld's moons. A sentimental exercise. What good my reading would do me among the inhabitants of the Synesthesia Wild, I had no idea. Probably none. But I was going out there and on the evening before my departure, the day before my submersion, I lost myself in the forests of another time -- knowing that for the next several months I would the waking and wakeful prisoner of the hominoids who were my subjects. We had killed off all the primitive peoples of Earth, but on paradoxical BoskVeld I still had a job. And when Benedict turned the copter under those three antiquegold moons and flew it back to base camp like a crepitating dragonfly, I knew that I had to pursue that job. The jungle, however, was bleak -- and strange -- and nightmarishly real; and all I could think was There are no more pygmies, there are no more pygmies, there are no Methods: a dialogue From the professional, notebooks of Egan Chaney: I was not the first Earthman to go among the Asadi, but I was the first to live with thein for an extended period of time. The first of us to encounter the Asadi was Oliver Bow Aurm Frasier, the man who gave these hominoids their name -- perhaps on analogy with the word Ashanti, the name of an African people who still exist. IF but more likely from the old Arabic word asad meaning lion. Oliver Bow' Aurm Frasier had reported that the Asadi of BoskVeld had no speech as we understood this concept, but that at one time they had possessed a "written language." He used both these words loosely. I'm sure, and the anomaly of writing without speech was one that I hoped to throw some light on. In addition, Frasier had said that an intrepid ethnographer might hope to gain acceptance among the Asadi by a singularly unorthodox stratagem. I will describe this stratagem by setting down here an imaginary conversation that I could have had with Benedict (but didn't). the way, am Egan Chaney), what do you plan on doing after I drop you all by your lonesome into the Synesthesia Wild? You aren't thinking of using the standard anthropological pl#y, are you? You know, marching right into the Asadi hamlet and exclaiming, "I am the Great White God of whom your legends foretell." ter of fact. I'm not going into the Asadi clearing until morning. have to copter you into the Wild in the middle of the goddamn night? centric. No, No, Benedict, don't revile me. The matter is fairly simple. Frasier said that the Asadi community clearing is absolutely vacant during the night -- not a soul remains there between dusk and sunrise. The community members return to the clearing only when Denebola has grown fat and coppery on the eastern horizon. dropped at night? your copter a chance to fade and be forgotten and to afford me the opportunity of walking into the Asadi clearing with the first morning arrivals. Just as if I belonged there. You'll be very inconspicuous, Chaney. You'll be accepted immediately -- even though the Asadi go about naked, have eyes that look like the murky glass in the bottoms of old bottles and boast great natural collars of silver or tawny fur. Oh, indeed -- yes. stratagem that I hope to employ "acceptance through social invisibility." The principle is again a simple one. I must feign the role of an Asadi pariah. This tactic gains me a kind of acceptance because Asadi mores demand that the pariah's presence be totally ignored. He is outcast not in a physical sense, but in a psychological one. Consequently my presence in the clearing will be a negative one, an admission I'll readily make -- but in some ways this negative existence will permit m more latitude df movement and observation than if I were an Asadi in good standing. very complicated. It leaves me with two burning questions. How does one go about achieving pariahhood and what happens to the anthropologist's crucial role as a gatherer of folk material -- songs, cosmologies, ritual incantations? I mean, won't your "invisibility" deprive you of your cherished one-to-one relationships with those Asadi members who might be most informative? question first. Frasier told us that the Asadi don't communicate through speech. That in itself pretty well limits me to observation. No need to worry about songs or incantations. llieir cosmologies I'll have to infer from what I see. As for their methods of interpersonal communication -- even should I discover what these are, I may not be physically equipped to use them. The Asadi aren't human, Ben. benedict: I'm aware. Frequently, listening to you, I begin to think speechlessness might be a genetically desirable condition. All right. Enough. What about attaining to pariahhood? much about which offenses warrant this extreme punishment. However, we do know how the Asadi distinguish the outcast from the other members of the community. fender's collar of fur. Since all Asadi possess these manes, regardless of sex or age, this method of distinguishing the pariah is universal and certain. pariah? remember to shave evej# day. Frasier believed that his hairlessness -- he was nearly bald -- was what allowed him to make those few discoveries about the Asadi we now possess. But he arrived among them during a period of strange inactivity and had to content himself with studying the artifacts of an older Asadi culture, the remains of a huge winged pagoda in the Synesthesia Wild. Too, I've heard that Frasier didn't really have the kind of patience that's essential for field work. a little. Couldn't one of the Asadi be shorn of his mane accidentally? He'd be an outcast through no fault of his own, wouldn't he? An artn ficial pariah? Frasier reported that the Asadi have no natural enemies -- that, in fact, the Synesthesia Wild seems to be almost completely devoid of any life beyond the Asadi themselves. In any case, the loss of one's collar through whatever means is considered grounds for punishment. That's the only offense that Frasier pretty well confirmed. What the others are, as I said, we really don't know. void of other life -- save inedible botanicals -- Chaney, what do the poor Asadi live on? either. what do you plan to live on? I mean, even Malinowski condescended to eat now and again. At least, that's what I hear. in, Ben. I'm going to carry in sufficient rations to see me through a week. But eachxweek for the next several months you'll have to make a food and supply drop in the place where you first set me down. I've IF already picked the spot -- I know its distance and direction from the Asadi clearing. It'll be expensive, but the people in base camp -- Eisen in particular -- have agreed that my work is necessary. You won't be forced to defend the drops. Why once a week? mine. Since I told him I was going, to refuse any sort of contact at all during my stay with the Asadi -- any contact with you people, that is -- he decided that the weekly drop would be the best way to make certain, occasionally, that I'm still alive. Besides food I'll take in nothing but my notebooks, a recorder, some reading material and maybe a little something to get me over the inevitable periods of depression. need immediate help? twice, but I'll always have the flares if things get really bad. Placenol and bourbon, too. Nevertheless, I insist on complete separation from any of the affairs of base camp until my stay among the Asadi is over. this? I don't mean why did Eisen decide we ought to study the Asadi so minutely. I mean, why are you, Egan Chaney, committing yourself to this ritual sojourn among an alien people? There are one or two others at base camp who might have gone if they had had the chance. no more pygmies... End of simulated dialogue on initial methods. I suppose I have made Benedict out to be a much more inquisitive fellow than he actually is. All those well-informed questions! In truth, Ben is taciturn and sly at once. But when you read the notes for this ethnography, Ben, remember that I let you get in one or two unanswered hits at me. Can friendship go deeper? As a man whose life's work involves accepting a multitude of perspectives, I believe I have played you fair, Ben. Forgive me my trespass. Contact and assimilation From the private Journals of Egan Chaney: Thinking There are no more pygmies there are no more pygmies there are no... I lay down beneath a tree that resembled an outsized rubber plant and I slept. I slept without dreaming -- or else I had grotesque nightmares that, upon waking, I suppressed. A wrist alarm woke me. The light from Denebola had begun to coppercoat the edges of the leaves in the Synesthesia Wild. Still, dawn had not quite come. ,The world was silent. I refused to let the Wild distort my senses. I did not wish to cut myself on the crimsons and the yellows and the orchid blues. Neither did I haveany desire to taste the first slight treacherous breeze nor to hear the dawn detonate behind my retinas. Therefore I shook myself awake and began walking. Beyond the brutal need of having to maintain my direction I paid no attention to my surroundings. The clearing where the Asadi would soon congregate compelled me toward it. That fateful place drew me on. Everything else slipped out of my consciousness -- blazing sky, moist earth, singing fronds. Would the Asadi accept me among them -- on external signs alone -- as they negatively accept their outcasts? Upon this hope I had founded nearly six months of future activity -- not a whit of my master strategy had I based on the genuine substance of this condition. Externality vs. substance. It was too late to reverse either my aims or the direction of my footsteps. Let the doubt die. Pattern the sound of your footfalls after the pattern of falling feet -- those falling feet that converge with ' you upon the clearing where the foliage parts and the naked Asadi assemble like a convention of unabashed mutes. I so patterned the sounds of my footfalls. Glimpsed through rents in the fretwork of leaves, an Asadi's flashing arm. Seen as a shadow among other shadows on the ground, the forward-moving image of an Asadi's maned head. The Wild trembled with morning movement. I was surrounded by unseen and half-seen communicants, all of us converging. And then the foliage parted and we were together on the open jungle floor -- the Asadi clearing, the holy ground perhaps, the unadorned territory  of gregariousness and communion, the focal point pf Asadi life. The awesome odor of this life -- so much ter. I adjusted. Great gray-fleshed creatures, their heads heavy with violent drapings of fur, milled about me, turned about one another, came back to me, sought confirmation of my essential whatness. I could do nothing but wait. I waited. My temples pulsed. Denebola shot poniards of light through the trees. Hovering, then moving away, averting their murky eyes the Asadi -- individual by individual, I noticed -- made their decision and that first indispensable victory was in my grasp: I was ignored! Xenology: in-the-fieid report FroM the, professional tapes of the library of the Third Denebolan Expedition: I have been here two weeks. Last night I picked up the second of Benedict's food drops. It is fortunate that they come on time, that they arrive on the precise coordinates where Benedict first set me down. The Asadi do not eat as we do and the Synesthesia Wild provides me with foodstuffs neither in the way of edible vegetation nor in that of small game animals. I cannot tolerate the platnts. As the biochemists in base camp predicted, they induce almost immediate vomiting or their furry bitterness dissuades me from swallowifig tlm. There are no animals. The jungle is alive, but with writhing fronds and with the heat, the steam, the infrasonic vibrancy of continual photosynthesis. Rainwater I can drink. Thank God for that, even though I boil it before truly considering it potable. ' I have reached a few purely speculative conclusions about the Asadi. With them nothing is certain, nothing is fixed. Their behavior, though it must necessarily have a IF deep-seated social function, does not make sense to me. At this stage, I keep telling myself, that's to be expected. You must persist, you must refuse to be discouraged. Therefore, I extrapolated from my own condition to theirs. I asked myself. If you cant subsist on what BoskVeld gives you -- how do the Asadi? My observations in this area (and for fear of Benedict's kindly ridicule I hesitate to put it this way) have borne fruit, have given me the intellectual nourishment to combat despair. Nothing else on BoskVeld has offered me consolation. In answer to the question. What do the Asadi eat? I can say, quite without fear of contradiction. Everything that I do not. They appear to be herbivorous. In fact, they go beyond the unsurprising consumption of plants: they eat wood. Yes, wood. I have seen them strip bark from the rubber trees and ingest it without qualm. I have watched them eat pieces of the very heart of young saplings, wood of what we would consider a prohibitive' hardness -- even for creatures equipped to process it internally. Three days ago I boiled down several pieces of bark, the sort of bark that I had seen many of the young Asadi consume. I boiled it until the pieces were limply pliable. I managed to chew the bark for several semi-profitable minutes and, finally, to swallow it. Checking my stool nearly a day later I found that this meal had gone, right through me. What, after all, does bark consist of? Cellulose. Indigestible cellulose. And yet the Asadi, who possess teeth not much different from ours, eat wood and also digest it. How? Again I have to speculate. I am hindered by my lack of detailed knowledge about anything other than human beings. Nevertheless, hunkering here on the edge of the Asadi clearing as the dusk grows more and more ominous, hunkering here and talking into a microphone (Testing, one -- two -- three, testing, testing), I will offer all you hypercritical and exacting people in the hard sciences an analogy. A ridiculous analogy perhaps. If you don't like it I'll undoubtedly defer to your judgment and back off. But just as primitive shamans must attempt to explain the world in their own terms, #, Egan Chaney, isolated from my fellows, must conjure up explanations of my own. Here is one: I believe that the Asadi digest wood in the same manner as Earthly termites -- that is, through the aid of bacteria in their intestines, protozoa that break down the cellulose. A symbiosis, Eisen would say. And let that be a lesson to us all. It's time that people learned to get along with one another. Bacteria and Chinamen, legumes and pygmies... This is later. Tonight I have to talk, even if it's only to a microphone. With the coming of darkness the Asadi have disappeared again into the jungle and I'm alone. For the first three nights that I was here #, too, returned to the Wild when Denebola set. I returned to the place where Benedict dropped me, curled up beneath the overhanging palm leaves, slept through the night and then joined the dawn's inevitable pilgrimage back to this clearing. Now I remain here through the night. I sleep on the clearing's edge, just deep enough into the foliage to find shelter. I go back into the jungle only to retrieve my food drops. Although the Asadi disapprove of my behavior, I am an outcast and they can do nothing to discipline me away from my unacceptable conduct without violating their own injunction against acknowledging a pariah's existence. As they depart each evening a few of the older Asadi, those with streaks of white in their mangy collars, halt momentarily beside me and breathe with exaggerated heaviness. They don't look at me because that's taboo. But I, in turn, don't look at them -- I ignore them as if they were the pariahs. As a result I've been able to dispense altogether with those senseless and wearying treks in and out of the clearing that so exhausted me at first. My behavioral studies during the day, however, go on unabated. To absolve myself of what may seem a lack of thoroughness I ought to mention, I suppose, that on my fourth and fifth nights here I attempted to follow two different Asadi specimens into the jungle in order to determine where they slept, how they slept and what occupi their waking time away from the clearing. I was unsuccessful in these attempts. When evening comes the Asadi disperse. This dispersal is complete. No two individuals remain together, not even the young with their parents. Each Asadi finds a place of his own, a place utterly removed from that of any other member of his species. (This practice, by the way, runs counter to my experience with every other social group that I've ever studied.) On the fourth and fifth nights, then, I was humiliatingly outdistanced by the objects of my pursuit. Nor can I suppose that I'd have any greater success with different specimens, since I purposely chose to follow an aged and decrepit-seeming Asadi on the first evening and a small prepubescent creature on the second. Both ran with convincing strength, flashed into the trees -- as if still arboreal by nature -- and then flickered from my vision. All three moons are up, burntgold and unreal. I'm netted in by shadows and my growing loneliness. Field conditions, to be frank, have never before been quite so austere for me and I've begun to wonder if the Asadi were ever intelligent creatures. Maybe I'm studying a variety of Denebolan baboon. Oliver Bow Aurm Frasier, though, reported that the Asadi once had both a written "language" and a distinctive system of architecture. He didn't bother to tell us how he reached these conclusions -- but the Synesthesia Wild, I'm certain, contains many secrets. Later I'll be more venturesome. But for the present I've got to try to understand those Asadi who are alive today. They're the key to their own past. One or two things -- final ones -- before I attempt to sleep. First, the eyes of the Asadi. These are somewhat as Benedict briefly described them in the imaginary IF dialogue that I composed a week ago today. That is, like the bottoms of thick-glassed bottles. Except that I've noted that the eye really consists of two parts -- a thin transparent covering, which is apparently hard, like plastic, and the membranous organ of sight that this covering protects. It's as if each Asadi were bom wearing a built-in pair of safety glasses. Frasier's impression of their eyes as murky is one not wholly supported by continued observation. What he saw as "murkiness" probably resulted from the fact that the eyes of the Asadi, behind the other lens or cap, are constantly changing colors. Sometimes the rapidity with which a sienna replaces an indigo -- and then a green the sienna, and so on -- makes it difficult for a mere human being to see any particular color at all -- maybe this is the explanation for Frasier's designation of their eyes as "murky." I dont know. I am certain, though, that this chameleonic quality of the Asadi's eyes has social significance. And a second thing: Despite the complete absence of a discernible social order among the Asadi I may today have witnessed an event of the first importance to my unsuccessful, so far, efforts to chart their group relationships. Maybe. Maybe not. Previously, no real order at all existed. Dispersal at night, then congregation in the morning -- if you choose to call that order. But nothing else. Random no set times for eating, sex, or their habitual bloodless feuds; random plunges into the jungle at night. Upon Denebola's setting no the best SF I have seen." "I greatty enjoy your books -- "I think, so far. that No. #. ThB ProbabtUty Man, is the best one in the series. Please continue." "I enjoy your books immensely. Thanks." "Keep going, Mr. Wollheim, I think you may have a hit on your hands."... well-designed and attractive. I admire the variety of both author and artist, and hope you can keep both going."... your books and your company are greatl... keep up the fantastic worki Lots of luck in the future."  very best: Ron Goulart. Ron certainly has the talent. Schmitz. And Schmitz is a lion at it. Need we say more? V creature ever heads in the same direction twice. What's a humble Earthman to make of all this? A society held together by institutionalized antisocialness? What happened today leads me irrevocably away from that possibility. Maybe. This afternoon an aged Asadi whom I had never seen before stumbled into the clearing. His mane was grizzled, his face wizened, his hands shriveled, his gray by bleached to a filthy cream. But so agile was he in the Synesthesia Wild that no one detected his presence until his incongruously clumsy entry into the clearing. Then everyone fled from him. Unconcerned, he sat down in the center of the Asadi gathering place and folded his long naked legs. By this time all of his kinsmen were in the jungle staring back at him from the edge of the clearing. Only at sunset had I ever before seen the Asadi desert the clearing en masse. Hence my certainty that what happened today is of prime importance to my mission here. But I haven't yet exhausted the strangeness of this old man's visit. You see, Moses, he came accompanied. And not by another Asadi. He came with a small purplishblack creature perched on his shoulder. It resembled a raven, a bat and a deformed homunculus all at once. But whereas the old man had great round eyes that changed color extremely slowly, if at all, the creature on his shoulder had not even a pair of empty sockets -- it was blind. It lacked any organs of sight. It sat on the aged Asadi's shoulder and manipulated its tiny hands compulsively, tugging at the old man's mane, opening and closing them on empty air, then tugging again at its protector's grizzl collar. Both the old man and his beastlikemanlike familiar had a furious unreality. They existed at a spiritual as well as a physical distance and I noted that the rest of the Asadi -- those who surrounded and ignored me on the edge of the "communion" ground -- behaved not as if they feared these sudden visitors but rather as if they felt a loathsome kinship with them. This is difficult to express. Bear with me, Eisen. Maybe another analogy will help. Let me say that the Asadi behaved toward their visitors as a fastidious son might behave toward a father who has contracted veneral disease. Ambivalence is all in such cases. Shame and respect, distance and intimacy, love and loathing. But the episode concluded abruptly when the old man rose from the ground, oblivious to the slow swelling and sedate flapping of his huri (that's a portmanteau word for fury and harpy that I've just coined) and stalked back into the Wild, scattering a number of Asadi in his wake. Then everything went back to normal. The clearing filled again and the ceaseless and senseless God, it's amazing how lonely loneliness can be when the sky contains three jagged, nuggetlike moons and the human being inside you has involuntarily abdicated to the essence of that which should IF An eerie, exciting book for young readers by the finest living writer of fantastic fiction Ray Bradbury Illustrated by joe Mugnaini. In this bizarre tale, which flawlessly combines horror with humor, mysterious character named Carapace ClavicleB- Moundshroud escorts a group of boys back through Time -- to ancient Egypt, Druid Britain, and other hair-raising places -- to discover the diverse origins of Halloween. Ages #I up. # Alfred  A Knopf command only your outward life. That's a mouthful, isn't it? What I mean is that there's a small struggle going on between Egan Chaney, the cultural xenologist, and Egan Chaney, the quintessential man. No doubt it's the result more of environmental pressure than of my genetic heritage. That's a little anthropological allusion, Benedict. Don't worry about it. You aren't supposed to understand it. But enough. Today's atypical occurrence has sharpened my appetite for observation -- it has temporarily calmed my internal struggle. I'm ready to stay here a year if need be, even though the original plan was only for six months -- because a self divided against its stand cannot state. No, it can't. At least, not without fear of contradiction. Hey ha and hey nonny. I'm going to bed. I may not touch my good old Yamaga mike for a week. Dear God, look at those moons! The Asadi clearing: a clarification From the professional journals of Egan Chaney: My greatest collegiate failing was an inability to organize. I am pursued by that specter even oday. Consequently, a digression of sorts. In looking over these quirkish notes for my formal ethnography, I realize that I may have given the student the completely false idea that the Asadi clearing is a small area of ground, say, fifteen by fifteen, measuring in meters. Not so. As well as I am able to determine there are approximately a thousand Asadi individuals on hand daily -- this figure includes mature adults, the young and those intermediate between age and youth. Of course, during all my time in the Synesthesia Wild I've never been completely sure that the same individuals return to the clearing each morning. It may be that some sort of monumental shift takes place in the jungle, one group of Asadi replacing another each day. But I doubt it. The Wild encompasses a finite area, after all, and I have learned to recognize a few of the more distinctive Asadi (more on this point later, gentle reader). A thousand still seems about right to me: a thousand grayfleshed creatures strolling, halting, bending at the waist and glaring at one another, eating, participating in random sex acts, grappling like wrestlers, obeying no time scheme, sequence, or apprehensible rationale. Such activity requires a little space. Therefore the reader may not cheerfully assume that the Asadi communion ground is a fiveby-eight mud flat between a BoskVeld cypress and a malodorous sump hole. Not at all. Their communion ground has both size and symmetry and the Asadi maintain it discrete from the encroaching jungle by their unremitting daily activity. I will not quote you dimensions, however. I will say only that the clearing has the rectangular shape, the characteristic slope and the practical roominess of a twentieth-century football field. Pure coincidence. I'm sure. Astroturf and lime-rendered ehdzones are conspicuously absent. A dialogue of self and soul From the private correspondence of Egan Chaney: The title of this exercise is from Yeats, dear Ben. The substance of the dialogue, however, has almost nothing to do with the poem of the same name. I wrote this imaginary exchange in one of my notebooks while waiting out a particularly long night on the edge of the Asadi clearing (just off the imaginary thirty-yard-line on the south end of the field, western sideline) and I intend for no one to read it, Ben, but you. Its lack of objectivity and the conclusions drawn by the participants make it unsuitable for any sort of appearance in the formal ethnography that I have yet to write. But you, Ben, will understand that a scientist is also a man and may perhaps forgive me. Since even futbol fanatics of Century required announcers to describe the action or binoculars through which to see it, I herewith provide a program. You can't tell the players without a program. The numbers on the backs of the players' metaphysical jerseys are lf and Soul. Self  The Cultural Xenologist Soul  The Quintessential Man Manger(s): Egan Chaney self: This is my eighteenth night in the Synesthesia Wild.  Even though we lived only a building away from each other in base camp, Chaney "mailed" me this letter and I received it in my postal box for probeship dispatches. We, never discussed the "letter" contents. Thomas Benedict. IF let that go. What have you learned? self: Most of my observations lead me to state emphatically that the Asadi are not fit subjects for anthropological study. They manifest no purposeful social activity. They do not use tools. They have less social organization than did most of the extinct Earthly printates. Only the visit, four days ago, of the old "man" and his frightening companion indicates even a remote possibility that I am dealing with intelligence. How can I continue? comtempt for the revulsion that daily grows in you. Because the Asadi are, in fact, intelligent -- just as Oliver Bow Aurm Frasier said they were. damn it, how do I know what you insist is true? Blind acceptance of Frasier's word? Chaney. The eyes, for instance. But even if there weren't any signs you'd know tlmt the Asadi are as intelligent in their own way as you or I. Wouldn't you, Egan? telligence haunts me. the facts. You've twisted things around horribly. souL: You are not the one who is haunted, Egan Chaney, for you're too rational a creature to be the prey of poltergeist. I am the haunted one, the bedeviled one, the one ridden by every insidious spirit of doubt and revulsion. that word twice. Why do you insist upon it? What does it mean? despise their every culturally significant -- or insign ificant -- act. They curdle my essence with their very alienness. And because affect me so you, too. Dr. Chaney, hate them -- for you are simply the civilized veneer on my primordial responses to the world. You are haunted not by the Asadi, friend, but by me. haunted by them? Is that how you view it? though you're aware of my hatred for the Asadi, you pretend that that portion of my hatred which seeps into you is only a kind of professional resentment. You believe that you resent the Asadi for destroying your objectivity, your scientific detachment. In truth this detachment does not exist. You feel the same powerful revulsion for their alienness that works in me like a disease, the same abiding and deep-seated hatred. I haunt you. self: With hatred for the Asadi? Admit that even as a scientist you hate them. Because we killed the pygmies, every one of them. How can I say, I hate the Asadi,  hate the Asadi,... when we killed every pygmy? Even though, my God, I do. Daily life: in-the-field report From the professional tapes of the library of the Third Denebolan Expedition: Once again it's evening. I've a lean-to now. It protects me from the rain much better than did the porous roof of the forest. I've been here twentytwo days. My flesh has mildewed. Beneath this mildewed flesh my muscles crawl like the evil snakes that BoskVeld doesn't possess. I am saturated with Denebola's garish light. I am Gulliver among the Yahoos and even my own familiar voice speaking into this familiar little recorder doesn't comfort me. This, however, isn't what you want to hear. You want facts. You want my conclusions about the behavior of the Asadi. You want evidence that we're studying a life form with at least a fundamental degree of the ability to ratiocinate. The Asadi have this ability, I swear it. I know it. But in my first week or two here my knowledge stemmed almost entirely from a hunch, a conviction with no empirical basis. But slowly the evidence for intelligence has begun to accumulate. Okay. Let me, then, deliver myself of an in-the-field report as an objective scientist and forget the hunches of my mortal self. Somebody in grad school used to say that. I'm sure. At any rate, the rest of this tape will deal with the daily life of the Asadi. A day in the life of. A typical day in the life of. Except that I'm going to cap my reporting of mundane occurrences with the account of an extraordinary event that took place just this afternoon. Like Thoreau, I'm going  to compress time to suit my own artisticscientific purposes. So hang on, gang. IF At dawn the Asadi return to their football field. For approximately twelve hours they mill about in the clearing doing whatever they care to do. Sexual activity and quirkish staring matches are the only sorts of behavior that can in any way be called "social" -- unless you believe call their daylight way of life Indifferent Togetherness. But when the Asadi engage in coitus, their indifference dissolves and gives way to a brutal hostility -- both partners behave as if they desire to kill the other and frequently this is nearly the result. (I haven't yet witnessed the birth of an Asadi, in case you're wondering. Maybe the bearii of young occurs only in the Synesthesia Wild, the female self-exiled and unattended. I can't yet say for certain.) As forthe staring matches, they're of brief duration and involve fierce gesticulation and mane-shaking. In thesq head-to-head confrontations the eyes change color with astonishing rapidity, flashing through the entire visible spectrum -- and maybe beyond -- in a matter of seconds. I'm now prepared to say that these instantaneous clmnges of eye color are the Asadi equivalent of speech. I'm sure that you, Eisen, would have ventured this theory much sooner than I have, had you been here -- but I'm uneasy about the biological aspects of any cultural study and must go slow. Three weeks of observation have finally convinced me that the adversaries in these staring matches control the internal chemical changes that trigger the changes in the succeeding hues of their eyes. In other words, patterns exist. And the minds that control these chemical changes cannot be priniitive ones. Nor can I believe that the changes in eye color result from involuntary reflex. The alterations are willed. They're infinitely complicated. Old Oliver Bow Aurm was right. The Asadi have a "language," Stilly for all the go it does me they might as well have none. I continue to go through each day as if I were an amateur naturalist charting the activities of the inhabitants of my antfarm rather than a cultural xenologist attempting to find an ally against the monumental wilderness of space. One day is agonizingly like another. And I can't blame my pariahhood, for the only things even a welladjusted Asadi may participate in are sex and staring. It doesn't pain startling avidanca that madam scianca confirms tha raality of talapathy, ciairvoyanca, pracognition, and psychokinasis An Excursion into Parapsychology #, now at your bookatora me overmuch to be outcast from participation in these. To some extent, I'm not much more of a pariah than any of these creatures. We're all outcast from life's feast, so to speak, with no bridge clubs, Saturday-night dances or homestudy groups to enliven our lives. Unlike every other society I've ever seen or read about, the Asadi don't even have any meaningful communal gatherings, any festivals of solidarity, any unique rituals of group consciousness. They don't even have families. The individual is the basic unit of their "society." What they have done, in fact, is to institutionalize the processes of alienation. Their dispersal at dusk simply translates into physical distance the incohesiveness by which they live during the day. And have we not learned over long centuries that such alienation is soul-destroying? How do the Asadi continue to live as a people? For that matter, why do they do so? But enough questions. As I mentioned earlier, something out of the ordinary happened today. It happened this afternoon. (It's still happening, I guess.) And although this occurrence poses more questions than it answers, it has rescued me from the vitiating sameness of Asadi daily life. As before, this strange event involves the old man who appeared in the clearing over a week ago. Him and with him, of course, the blind reptilian creature perched on his shoulder like a curse -- the huri. Until today I'd never seen two Asadi eat together. As an Earthman from a western background, I Find the practice of eating alone a disturbing one. Disturbing and depressing. After all. I've been eating alone for over three weeks now, and I long to sit down in the communal mess with Benedict and Eisen, Morrell and Jonathan, and everyone else at base camp. My training in strange folk ways and alien cultural patterns hasn't weaned me away from this longing. As a result, I've watched with interest, and a complete lack of comprehension, the Asadi sitting apart from their fellows and privately feeding -- sucking on roots, chewing up leaves, and, as I reported a week ago, actually consuming the bark and heartwood of the trees. But doing so alone, apart, as a seemingly necessary exercise in isolation. Today this changed. At the beginning of the hour before the fall of dusk, the old man staggered into the clearing under the burden of something damnably heavily. I was aware of the commotion at once. Like last time, every one of the Asadi fled from the floor of the assembly ground to the edge of the jungle. I observed from my lean-to. My heart, dear Ben, thrumped like a toad in ajar. I had wondered if the enigmatic old boy would ever return and now he was back. The huri on his shoulder scarcely moved -- it appeared bloated and insentient, a rubber doll without a trace of life. During the whole of the old man's visit it remained in this virtually comatose state, upright but unmoving. The aged Asudi (whom I've begun to regard as some sort of aloof and mysterious chieftain) paused in the center of the clearing. IF looked about him and then struggled to remove the burden from his back. It was slung over his shoulder blades by means of two narrow straps. Straps, Eisen: S-T-R-A-P-S. Can you understand how I felt? Nor did the nature of the burden itself cause my wonder to fade. For, you see, what the old man was lowering to the ground was the rich, brownish-red carcass of an animal. The meat glistened with the falling light of Denebola and its own internal vibrancy. The meat had been dressed, Eisen, it had been preapred and the old man was bringing it to the clearing as an offering to his people. He set the carcass on the dusty assembly floor and withdrew the straps from the incisions in the meat. Then he stood back five or six steps. Slowly a few of the adult males began to stalk back into the clearing. They approached the old man's offering with diffident steps, like thieves in darkened rooms. I noticed that their eyes were furiously changing colors -- they were speaking to one another with the urgency of a hundred electric kaleidoscopes. All but the old man who had brought the offering. I could see him standing away from the meat and his eyes -- like unpainted china saucers -- were the color of dull clay. His eyes didn't alter even when several of the Asadi males fell upon the meat and began ripping away beautifully veined hunks, silently pushing and elbowing and clawing at one another. Then more and more of the Asadi males descended upon the carcass and all about the fringes of the clearing the females and the young made tentative movements out of the shadows. I had to leave my lean-to to see what was going on. And ultimately I couldn't see anything but bodies and manes and animated discord. Before most of the Asadi were aware, Denebola had set. Awareness grew, beginning with the females and the young on the edges of the clearing and then burning inward like a grass fire. The first individuals to become aware flashed into the Wild. Others followed. Eventually, in a matter of only seconds, even the strongest males raised their bloody snouts to the sky and scented their predicament. Then they bounded toward the trees, disappearing in innumerable directions -- like the dying light itself. But here is the strange part. The old man didn't follow his people back into the Synesthesia Wild. He's sitting out there in the clearing right now. When all the Asadi had fled he found the precise spot where he had placed his offering, hunkered down, lowered his buttocks, crossed his legs, and assumed sole ownership of that sacred piece of stained ground. I can see hipi out there now, damn it. The moons of BoskVeld throw his shadow in three different directions and the huri on his shoulder has begun to move a little, rustling its wings and nodding its blind head. This is the first night since I came here that I haven't been alone and -- I don't like it. No, indeed, fellows, I don't like it at all. Personal involvenient: The Bachelor From the private notebooks of Egan Chaney: My meetings of The Bachelor, as I called him almost from the beginning, represented an unprecedented breakthrough. It came on my #th day in the field -- although, actually I had noticed him for the first time three days prior to his resolute approach and shy touching of my face. That touch, which I permitted solely out of respect for Mother Science, frightened me more than anything else that had happened to me in the Wild. As far removed from a threat as a woman's kiss, that touch frightened me more than the first appearance of the old chieftain, more than the nightmare shape of the huri, more even than the chaos of rending and eating that followed the old man's gift of the flamebright carcass. I had been alone for weeks. Now, without much preamble, one of the Asadi had chosen to acknowledge my presence by touching me. Touching me! I must back up a bit. I must back up to the night that the Asadi chieftain, against all custom, stayed #n the clearing. My first realization that he intended to stay was another moment of minor terror. I'll confess, but the implications of his remaining overrode my fear. Wakeful and attentive, I sat up to study his eveiy movement and to record anything that might conceivably be construed as significant. The old man didn't move. The huri grew restive as the night progressed, but it didn't leave the old man's shoulder. The pair of them stayed in the clearing all that night and all the following day. They sat on the stained ground. When twilight came on that second day they departed with all the rest. I despaired. How many days would I have to suffer through before something else unusual occured? Would I spend the next five months watching the Asadi engage in brutal sex and senseless staring matches? But on my #th day on the edge of the clearing in the Synesthesia Wild, I saw The Bachelor. As far as I know I saw him for the first time. Certainly, if I had ever seen him before I had paid no attention. This anomalous event again broke the tedium for me -- even though I didn't then fully understand what was happening. I knew only that the endless shuffling back and forth of the Asadi had given way momentarily to an instant of almost pure communion. The Bachelor was a completely unprepossessing specimen. I judged him to be three or four years beyond Asadi adolescence. Gray-fleshed and gaunt, he had a patchy silver-blue mane of so little length that the others surely considered him a virtual outcast. In fact, in all the time I knew him he never once took part in either coitus or the ritualized staring of the fullmaned Asadi. When I first felt his eyes upon me The Bachelor was on my imaginary twenty-yard line, looking toward my lean-to from a pocket of his ceaselessly moving brethren. He had chosen me to stare at. The fact that he did not receive a cuffing for violating the one heretofore inviolable Asadi taboo confirmed for me the negligibility of his tribal status. It was he IF and I who were brethren, not he and the creatures whom he genetically resembled. But in one extremely salient particular he didn't resemble the vast majority of Asadi. His eyes; his hard, emotion-veiling eyes. These were exactly like the old chieftain's -- translucent but empty, enameled but colorless, fired in the oven of his mother's womb but brittle like sun-baked clay. Never did The Bachelor's eyes flash through the rainbow spectrum as did the prismatit: eyes of his comrades. They remained clayey and cold, a shade or two lighter than his flesh. And it was with these eyes, on my #th day in the field, that The Bachelor took my measure. The noonday heat held us in a shimmering mirage, our gazes locked. "Well," I shouted, "don't just stand there making faces. Come over here where we can talk." My voice had no effect on the teeming Asadi -- it had no effect on The Bachelor. His posture unchanged, he regarded me with no more -- and no less -- interest than before. Of course, he could not "talk" with me. My human eyes don't even have the virtuosity of traffic lights -- and since The Bachelor's never changed color, he couldn't even communicate with his own kind. He was, for all intents and purposes, a mute. But when I called out to him, I believed that his dead eyes indicated a complete lack of intelligence. It did not then occur to me that they might be the external sign of a physical handicap, just as dumbness in human beings may be the result of diseased or paralyzed vocal cords. Instead I decided that The Bachelor was stupid. I'm still not entirely certain that this initial judgment was not correct. "Come on over here," I said again. "It doesn't bother me that you're mentally deficient." The Bachelor continued to stare. He didn't approach. The distance between us measured almost thirty meters and occasionally a roving Asadi would intervene, its body blocking our vision. "Even if you had a thumbnail for a brain," I mumbled, "you wouldn't be at a terrible disadvantage among this crew, old boy. I haven't seen anyone but the old chieftain even attempt to test their intelligence. And untested intelligence, like a cloistered virtue, isn't worth a -- " I used an ancient and revered obscenity. The singing fronds of the Synesthesia Wild did not censure me for so saying. Some forty-odd light-years and a halfdozen or so centuries had invested the word with a mystic respectability and I was too tired to be. more profane. The Bachelor didn't respond to my inaudible cynicism. He stared at me for the rest of the afternoon. I tried to occupy myself with notetaking, then with a lunch of some of the rations Benedict had dropped and finally with cursory observations of other Asadi. Anything to avoid that implacable gaze. It was almost a relief when dusk fell. But that evening my excitement grew and I realized that something monumental had happened -- I had been acknowledged. The next day The Bachelor paid me little heed. He wandered forlornly in and out of the slow aimless nies of his aimless kindred, a lanky gray clown unheeded by everyone but me. I was disappointed that The Bachelor did not demonstrate the same interest in me that he had shown the day before. On the #th day he resumed his shameless staring and I was gratified. He followed a procedure different from his stationary strategy of the first day -- he moved tirelessly about the  clearing, weaving in and out of the clusters of Asadi, but always staying close enough to the western sideline to be able to see me. His eyes remained as dead as the insides of two oyster shells. I felt better the following morning, the morning of the #th day -- something was happening. The light from glowering Denebola seemed softer, the tropic heat less debilitating. I left my lean-to and went out on the assembly ground. Bathed in the pastel emptiness of dawn, I stood there as the Asadi came flying through the tendrils and fronds of the Synesthesia Wild to begin another day of Indifferent Togetherness. Their bodies broke through the green veils on the clearing's edge like a thousand swimmers diving into a spring and soon I was surrounded. Surrounded but ignored. Great ugly heads with silver or blue or clay-white or tawny manes bobbed around me, graceless and unsynchronized. And above us the sky of BoskVeld stretched out into the attenuated vastness of a universe infinitely less caring than even those dancing heads. The sun burned the morning away and at last I found The Bachelor. Undoubtedly he had had me in his sight all that morning -- but, moving with circumspection among his fellows, he had not permitted me to see him. I had frett over his apparent absence. Then Denebola was directly overhead and The Bachelor threaded his way through a dissolving clump, of bodies and stopped not five yards from me, atremble with his own daring. I, too, trembled. I feared that at any moment The Bachelor would fall upon and devour me -- instead he steeled himself to the task he had set and began his approach. I stood my ground. The gray head, the patchy silver-blue mane, the twin carapaces of his eyes -- all moved toward me. Then the long gray arm rose toward my face and the humanoid hand touched the depression under my botton lip, touched the most recent of my shaving cuts, touched me without clumsiness or malice. And I winced. A ninniiig chronology: weeks pass Day #: After achieving this unusual one-to-one contact with the Asadi native (hereafter referred to as The Bachelor) I did my best to And some method of meaningful communication. Nothing worked. Not words, of course. Not hand signals. Not signs in the dirt. Not even awkward charades. Nevertheless, The Bachelor could not be dissuaded from following me about. Once when I left the clearing for lunch he very nearly followed IF me into my lean-to. I was almost surprised when, at the fall of dusk, he left with the others -- he had been so doggedly faithful all afternoon. Despite this desertion I'm excited about my work again. Tomorrow seems a hundred years off and I can't believe that I ever thought seriously about scrapping the first painful returns from my presence here. Day #: Nothing. Nothing at all. The Bachelor continues to follow me around, never any more than eight or nine paces away -- his devotion is such that I can't urinate without his standing guard at my back. He must think that he's found an ally against the indifference of the others, but what his listless devotion gains for either of us, I can't say. All I know is that I've begun to tire of his attentions, just as he seems to have tired of the monotonous routine that he will not, for anything, abandon... Life in the clearing goes on as always. The others ignore us. Day #: I am ill. The medicine Benedict dropped ine during an earlier bout with diarrhea is almost gone. It's raining. As I write this. I'm lying on my pallet in njy lean-to nd watching the Asadi slog back and forth across the floor of their assembly ground. The odor of their morose gray dampness assaults me lika a poison, intensifies my nausea. In and out the Asadi go, in and out and back and forth... I have formulated the interesting notion that their entire way of life in which I have had to struggle to see even one or two significant patterns, is itself the one significant and on-going ritual of their species. Formerly I had been looking for several minor rituals to help me explain their society -- it may be that they are the ritual. As the poet asked, "How tell the dancer from the dance?" But having formulated about the Asadi I'm still left with the question: iVhat is the significance of the ritual that the Asi themselves are? An existential query, of course. Maybe my illness has made me think this way. Maybe I'm going melodramatically insane. The Bachelor sits cross-legged in the dripping, steaip-silvered foliage about five yards from my lean-to. His mane clings to his skull and shoulders like so many tufts of matted, cottony mold. Thought he's been dogging my footsteps for eleven days now, I haven't been able to induce him to enter this ramshackle shelter. He always sits outside and stares at me from beneath an umbrella of shining fronds -- even when it's raining. As it is now. His reluctance to come under a manufactured roof may be significant. If only I could make the same sort #f breakthrough with two or three others that I've made with The Bachelor. Day #: A tinge of my illness remains. So does The Bachelor. The two have begun to get mixed up in my mind... Nothing else to report. In and out, in and out. Daybreak and sunset, sunset and daybreak. The Great Shuffle goes on. Day #ft After the Asadi fled ipto the jungle last night, I trudged toward the supply pickup point where Benedict leaves my rations of food and medicine each week. The doses of Placenol that I've been giving myself lately, shooting up the stuff like a skidrow junkie (figuratively speaking, of course), have gotten bigger and bigger -- but Eisen, at the outset of this farcical expedition, assured me that P-nol in any quantity is absolutely nonaddictive. What amazes me beyond this sufficiently amazing attribute of the drug, however, is the fact that Benedict has been dropping more and more of it each week, providing me with a supply almost exactly commensurate with my increasing consumption. Or do I use more because they drop more? No, of course not. Everything goes into a computer at base camp. A program they ran weeks ago probably predicted this completely predicatable upsurge in my "emotional" dependency on P-nol. At any rate I'm feeling better. I've begun to function again. While I trudged, a haunting uneasiness seeped into me frpm the fluid shadows of the rubber trees. I heard noises. The noises persisted all the way to the drop point -- faint, unidentifiable, frightening. Let me record this quickly: I believe that The Bachelor lurked somewhere beyond the wide leaves and trailing vines where those noises originated. Once, in fact, I think I saw his dull eyes reflect a little of the sheen of the evening's first moon. But he never completely revealed himself to me -- if, indeed, he was there at all. A typed note on the supply bundle: "Look, Chaney, you don't have to insist on # nonassociation with us. You've been gone almost two months. A conversation or two with genuine hoo-man beans won't destroy your " precious ethnography. Let us drop you a radio. You can use it in the evenings. If you want it, send up a flare tomorrow night before all three moons have risen and I'll copter it out to the drop point the next day. So, how about it, Egan? Your Friend, Beneficent Ben." But of course I don't want a radio. Part of this business is the suffering. I knew that before I came out here. I won't quit until things have at last begun to make a little sense. Day # (Pre-dawn): I haven't been asleep all night. Yesterday evening, just six or seven hours ago, I went into the jungle to retrieve Benedict's eighth supply drop. Another typed note on the bundle: "Chaney, you're a pig-headed liinny. You don't even know how to conjugate your own first name. It should have been Ego instead of' Egan. I hope you've learned how to talk Asadi. If you haven't I'm certain that you'll have gone mad by now and started preaching neopentecostal sermons to the trees. What a picture. Send up a flare if you want anything. Ben." I wouldn't 've thought Ben quite so sardonically literate. On the way back to the clearing I heard noises again. The Synesthesia Wild echoed with the plunging gray ness of an indistinct form. I am certain (I think) that it was The IF Bachelor spying on me, retreating clumsily before my pursuit. Yes, even with a backpack of new supplies weighting me down I determined to followthese noises, these supicious tickings of leaf and twig. And although I never overtook my prey, I was able to keep up! It had to be The Bachelor, that half-seen grayness fleeing before me -- none of his fellows would have permitted me so much as a glimpse of the disturbed foliage in the wake of their disappearance. I went deeper and deeper into the Wild, away from the assembly ground. Splotches of moonlight fled across the jungle with us. When, panting, I broke into an opening among the trees I all at once realized that the noises drawing me on had ceased. I was clearing, rising against the sky like an Oriental pagoda, there loomed over me the broad and impervious mass of something built, something made. The resonances of Time dwarfed me. Thunderstruck, I felt panic climbing up the membranous ladder in my throat. My own startled gasp startled me again... ,Its hard to accept the fact that Vve seen what Vve seen. But that pagoda, temple, whatever, is actually out there! Old Oliver Bow Aurm studies the ruins of one of these structures -- he learned only that the Asadi may have once had a civilization of some consequence. From this intact pagoda, however, # undoubtedly learn things that will eclipse even Frasiers discoveries. But God knows when Fll get out there again...I stared up at the lofty wings of this sudden artifact, then turned, plunged back into the jungle and raced wildly away, my backpack thumping. Where was I going? Back to the assembly ground. Which way to run? I didn't have to answer this question. Blindly I moved in the direction of the suspicious tickings of leaf and twig that had resumed shortly after I fled the pagoda. The Bachelor again? I don't know. I saw nothing. But in two hours' time I had regained the safety of my leanto... Now I'm waiting for the dawn, for the tidal influx of Asadi. I'm exhilarated and I haven't even touched my new supply of Placenol. Day # (Evening): They're gone again. But I've witnessed something important and unsettling. The Bachelor did not arrive this morning with the others. At least he didn't take up his customary position eight or nine paces behind me. That sort of peripatetic vigilance does not go unnoticed and this morning I missed it. Totally ignored, I wandered through the Asadi, looking for The Bachelor. He was nowhere among them. Could he have injured himself in our midnight chase through the Wild? By noon I was both exhausted and puzzled -- exhausted by my search and my lack of sleep, puzzled by The Bachelor's apparent de. fection. I came to my lean-to and lay down. In a little while I had fallen asleep, though not soundly. Tickings of leaf and twig made my eyelids flicker. I dreamed that a gray shape came and squatted on the edge of the clearing about five yards from where I lay. Like a mute familiar, the shape watched over me... Groans and thrashings about. Thrashings and hackings. The underbrush beside my lean-to crackled beneath the invasion of several heavy feet. Bludgeoned out of my dream by these sounds, I sat up and attempted to reorient myself to the world. I saw The Bachelor. I saw three of the larger and more agile males bear him to the ground and pinion him there. They appeared to be cooperating in the task of subduing him! I watched their actions intently. What they did next confirmed my spur-of-the-moment evaluation. Cooperation it was indeed. The three males, who ignored me with all the contemptuous elan of aristocrats, picked up The Bachelor and bore him to the center of the clearing. I followed this party onto the assembly floor. As they had done during the old cheiftain's two unexpected visits, the Asadi crowded to the sidelines -- but they did not disappear into the jungle. They remained on the field, buffeting one another like the rabid spectators at one of those nearlegendary "bowl" games. I was the only individual other than the four struggling males out in the center of the assembly floor. I looked down at The Bachelor. His eyes came very close to changing colors, going from their usual clay-white to a thin, thin yellow. But I couldn't interfere.They shaved his mane. A female carrying two flat, beveled stones came out of the crowd on the eastern perimeter of the field -- she gave the stones to the males. With them the males scraped away the last sad mangy tufts of The Bachelor's silver-blue collar. Just as they were about to finish, he gave a perfunctory kick that momentarily dislodged one of his tormentors, then acquiesced in his shame and lay on his back staring at Denebola. The entire operation had taken only about ten minutes. The three males sauntered off from their victim -- and the satisfied spectators, aware that the barbering was over, strolled liesurely and with all their former randomness back into the clearing. Now, of course, they ignored The Bachelor with a frigidity they had once reserved for me. I stood in the center of the clearing waiting for The Bachelor to get to his feet, the two of us a blurred focal point on the slowly revolving wheel of the Asadi Dance of Indifference. But for a long time he didn't move. His narrow head, completely shorn, scarred by their barbering stones (the first tools I had seen any of them but the chieftain employ), looked unnaturally fragile. I leaned down and offered him my hand. A passing Asadi jostled me. Accidentally, I think. The Bachelor rolled to his stomach, rolled again to avoid being stepped on, curled into the foetal position -- then unexpectedly sprang out of the dust and dodged through a broken file of his uncaring kinsmen. Did he wish to attain the edge of the Wild? Intervening bodies blocked my view of him, but I suppose he disapIF peared into the trees and kept on running. All extremely interesting, of course. What does it signify? My hypothesis this evening is that the Asadi have punished The Bachelor for leading me last night, whether he did so inadvertently or on purpose, to the ancient pagoda in the Synesthesia Wild. His late arrival in the clearing may have been an ingenuous attempt to forestall this punishment. I can't think of anyother reasons why the Asadi should have moved to make him even more of an outcast than he already was. All this ambivalence mystifies me. It also convinces me that I can't permit the monotony of ninetenths of their "daily life" to becloud my eyes to the underlying meaning of it all. Patience, dear God, is nine-tenths of cultural xenology. And the punishment of weariness (since I'm discussing punishments, cruel and otherwise) runs concurrently with the xenologist's term of patience. Consequently andor hence. I'm going to bed. Day #: The Bachelor has not returned. Knowing that he's now officially a pariah, he chooses to be one on his own terms. During his absence I've been thinking about two things: #) If the Asadi did in fact punish The Bachelor because he led me to the pagoda, then they realize full well that I am not simply a maneless outcast. They know that I'm genetically different, a creature from elsewhere, and they consciously wish me to remain ignorant of their past. #) I would like to make an expedition to the pagoda. With a little perserverence it shouldn't be exceedingly difficult to find, especially since I plan to go during the day. Unusual things happen so rarely in the Asadi clearing that I can afford to be gone from it for a little while. One day's absence should not leave any irreparable gaps in my ethnography. If the expedition goes well that absence may provide some heady insights into the ritual of Asadi life. I wish only that The Bachelor would return. Day #: Since today was the day of Benedict's ninth scheduled drop I decided to make my expedition into the Wild early this morning. I Ben himself might well put it. First: I would search for the lost pagoda. Second: if I failed to find it I would salvage some part of the day by picking up my new supplies. Therefore, before dawn, off I went. The directional instincts of human beings must have died Wild stirred with an inhuman and gothic calm that tattered the thin fabric of my resourcefulness. Late in the afternoon Benedict's helicopter saved me. It made a series of stuttering circles over the roof of the jungle -- at one point I looked up and saw its undercarriage hanging so close to the tree tops that a spy monkey might have been able to leap aboard. I followed the noise of the helicopter to our drop point. From there I had no trouble getting back to the clearing. Today, then, marks the first day since I've been in the Wild that I've not seen a single member of the Asadi. I miss The Bachelor as I would miss a prodigal child. I await each dawn with newly rekindled expectations. But the entire night lies before me and the only way to get through it is to sleep. Day #: Even though I could not justify an excursion on the basis of another drop (the next one is still two days away), I went looking for the pagoda again. The last four days have teen informational zeroes. I had to get away from the clearing, had to take some kind of positive action, no matter how foolish that action might seem. And it was passing foolish -- I got lost again, terrifyingly so. Green creepers coiled about me -- the sky disappeared. And this time I knew that Benedict's helicopter would not fly overhead -- not unless I could wait another two days for it. How, then, dear diary, did our hero get home? Once again, the suspicious tickings of leaf and twig. I simply followed them. Now I'm back in my lean-to again, confident that The Bachelor is still out there and steadfast in my decision to make no more expeditions until I have help. Day #: The Bachelor is back! Day #: Yesterday I could record nothing but the simple fact of the Bachelor's appearance in the clearing. This evening I'll note only three or four concomitant facts. The Bachelor still has very little mane to speak of and the Asadi treat him as a total outcast. These last two days he has demonstrated a considerable degree of independence in his relations with me. He continues to follow me about, but less conspicuously and with occasional side trips that remove him altogether from my sight. He no longer hunkers beside my lean-to at. all. A made dwelling-place may put him uncomfortably in mind of the pagoda to which he led me and for whose discovery to an outsider he was publicly humiliated. I find this new arrangement a felicitous one, however. A little privacy is good for the soul. Day #: The note on yesterday's supply bundle: "Send up a flare tomorrow night if you wish to remain in the Wild. Eisen is seriously considering hauling you out of there. Only a flare will save you. The flare will mean, 'I'm learning things. Don't remove me from my work.' No flare will mean either that your stay has stopped being profitable or that you've reached your limit. My personal suggestion, Egan, is that you do nothing, just sit tight and wait for us. Okay? Your friend, Ben." I've just sent up two goddamn flaries. Day # will go down in cultural-xenological history as Egan Chaney's personal Fourth of July. Day #: I'm holding my own again. Thirty days ago I made my second excursion into the Wild to find the elusive pagoda. I've survived almost an entire month without venturing away from the assembly ground. Most of my time in the clearing has been devoted to noting individual differences among the Asadi natives. Since their behavior for the IF most part manifests a bewildering uniformity I've necessarily turned to the observation of their physical characteristics. Even in this area, however, most differences are more apparent than real -- I've found few useful discriminators. Size has some importance. The ability of the eyes to flash through the spectrum is another discriminator of sorts. But the only Asadi who don't possess this ability in a complete degree are the old chieftain and The Bachelor. Nevertheless, I can now recognize on sight several Asadi other than these prominent two. I've tried to give descriptive names to these recognizable individuals. The smallest adult male in the clearing I call Turnbull, because his stature puts me in mind of Colin Turnbull's account of the pygmies of the Ituri. A nervous fellow with active hands I call Benjy, after Benedict. The old chieftain continues to exert a powerful influence on my thinking. His name I derived by simple analogy. Him I call Eisen Zwei. The Bachelor now seems intent on retaining his anonymity -- his mane has grown very little since the shaving. I would almost swear that he plucks it at night in the Wild, keeping it short on purpose. Who is to say? These last few days he's avoided even me; that is, after he ascertains my whereabouts in the morning and then again in the evening, as if this simple knowledge suffices to maintain him secure all day and then through the uncertainty of night on BoskVeld. The bloom, I suppose, has gone off our romance. Good. We're both more comfortable. Today was another drop day. I didn't go out to retrieve my parcels. Too weary, too bloodless. But I've sworn off Placenol and the attendant psychological lift has made my physical weakness bearable. My parcels will be out there tomorrow. Tonight I'm going to read Odegaard's official report on the Shamblers of Misery. And then sleep. Sleep sleep sleep. Day #: Eisen Zwei, the old chieftain, came back today! In thumbing through this notebook I find that I first saw him enter the clearing exactly ninety days ago. Has a pattern begun to emerge? If so, I can't interpret its periodicity. I don't even know, come to think of it, what sort of life span the Asadi have. It might be that a man would have to stay out here centuries in order to unravel a mere sleeve of the garment of their existence. God forbid. This visit of Eisen Zwei -- to return to the issue at hand -- proceeded in a manner identical to that of his first one. He came into the clearing with the huri on his shoulder, sat down, remained perhaps an hour, then stalked back into the Wild. The Asadi, of course, fled from him -- motivated, perhaps, more by loathing than fear. How long will I have to wait until ole E.Z. returns? Day I #: The behavior of the Asadi -- all of the Asadi -- has undergone a very subtle alteration, one I can't account for. Nothing in my previous association with them gives me a basis for evaluating its import. Even after I # days in the field I'm a slave to purely human concepts of causality -- behavior changes for certain reasons, not from mere whim. But out here reasons elude me in the same way that the Asadi pagoda, about which I now only dream, once eluded me. Let me state what I have observed. For the last two days every member of this insane species has taken great pains to avoid stepping into a rather large area in the center of the clearing. As a result the Asadi have crowded themselves into two arbitrary groups at opposite ends of the field. These "teams" do not comport themselves in exactly the same way as did the formerly continuous group. Individuals on both sides of the silently agreed-upon No Man's Land exude an air of heightened nervousness. They crane their heads about, clutch their arms across their chests, sway, suffer nearepileptic paroxysms as they weave in and out, in and out, among their fellows. Watching them I sometimes believe that they writhe to the music of an eerie flute played deep in the recesses of the jungle. Sometimes staring matches will take place between individuals on opposite sides of the imaginary chasm. Eyes change color, bodies bend and limbs flail. But neither participant puts a foot inside the crucial ring of separation, which is about thirty yards long and almost -- but not quite -- the entire width of the clearing. Not quite, mind you, because there's a narrow strip of ground on each sideline through which the two "teams" may exchange members, one member at a time. These exchanges occur infrequently, with a lone Asadi darting nervously out of his own group, down one of , these unmarked causeways and into the "enemy" camp. Why do they avoid  the center of the clearing? The only , reason my Earthman's mind can settle on is that the clearing's center i marks that area of fearsome ground where an offender has been humiliated, blood spilled and flesh consumed. But all these things happened a good while ago. Why this fastidiousness now? Why this separation? The Bachelor has reacted to it all by climbing into the branches of a thick-boled tree not ten meters from my lean-to. From dawn to sunset he sits high above his inscrutable kinsmen, watching, sleeping, hvaybe attempting to assess the general mood. At times he looks in my direction to see what I make of these new developments. I don't make much of them. Day I #: It continues, this strange bipartite waltz. The dancers have grown even more frantic in their movements. Anxiety pulses in the air like electricity. The Bachelor climbs higher into his tree, struggling to the topmost branches where his hold is precarious -- he wedges himself in place. In the last three days I can't recall having seen any of the dancers eat -- none have engaged in sex. Even their staring contests have virtually ceased, though those that do occur are , fierce and protracted. The nonexistent flute that plays in my head has grown stingingly shrill and I cannot guess what the end of this madness must be. IF Day #: Events culminated today in a series of bizarre developments that pose me a conundrum of the first order. What will happen tomorrow? I can't imagine any sort of follow-up to what I raptly watched today. It began early. Eisen Zwei came into the clearing an hour after the arrival of the Asadi. As on his second visit, he bore on his back the dressed-out carcass of an animal. His huri, though once again upright oh the old man's shoulder, looked like the work of a rather inept taxidermist -- lopsided, awkwardly posed and inanimate. The people in the clearing deserted their two identically restive groups, fleeing to the jungle around the assembly ground. I could not help thinking, Hom; strange, how ironic, that the force that momentarily reunifies the Asadi is a shared loathing. The Bachelor, half-hidden by great lacquered leaves and unsteady in the fragile upper branches, leaned out over the clearing's edge and gazed down from his empty clay-white eyes. I clutched the bole of his tree, surrounded now by the curious, loathing-filled Asadi who had crowded into the jungle. They ignored me. Unaware of him, they ignored The Bachelor too -- but together we all watched the spectacle proceeding in the Center Ring. Eisen Zwei lowered the burden from his back. He undid the straps that had held the meat in place. But now, instead of stepping away and permitting a few of the braver males to advance, he took the nearunconscious huri from his shoulder and set it upon the bleeding lump of meat. The huri's blind head did not move, but even from where I stood I could see its tiny fingers rippling with slow but well-orchestrated malice. Then this hypnotic rippling ceased and the huri sat there looking bloated and dead, a plaything for the children of scabrous witches. Without a farewell of any sort Eisen Zwei turned and stalked back into the Synesthesia Wild. Where he left the clearing, foliage clattered from the efforts of several Asadi to get out of his way. Silence fell again. And now no one left the security of the assembly ground's edge to challenge the huri's ownership of this new and sorely tempting carcass -- despite the fact that I had not seen any of the Asadi take food in almost five days. Denebola, fat and mocking, crossed a small arc of the sky and made haloes dance in a hundred inaccessible grottos of the Wild. An hour passed, and Eisen Zwei returned! He had simply left the huri to guard his first offering. Yes, firt. For the old chieftain had come back with still another carcass slung across his bony shoulders, another dressed-out and fleshstrapped carcass. He set it down beside the other. The huri animated itself just long enough to shift its weight and straddle the two contiguous pieces of meat. Then the old Asadi departed again, just as before. In an hour he returned with a third piece of meat -- but this time he entered the clearing from the west, about twenty yards up from my lean-to. I realiz that he had first entered from the east, then from the south. A pattern is developing, I thought. Now hell depart once more and reenter from the north. After all, even the most primitive peoples on Earth had ascribed mystical characteristics to the four points of the compass and I was excited by the prospect of my being able to draw a meaningful analogy. Of course, Eisen Zwei saw fit to shatter my hopes by remaining on the assembly floor -- he did not leave again at all. (In fact, as on my #nd night in the Wild, he still has not left. Under a triangle of coppergreen moons the old chieftain and his huri squat on the bleak, blooddampened ground waiting for Denebola's first spiderwebbings of light.) He made one complete circuit around the clearing instead, walking counterclockwise from his point of entrance. The huri did not move. This done, Eisen Zwei rejoined his noxious familiar at midfield. Here the second stage of this new and puzzling ritual began. Without taking the third carcass from his back, E.Z. bent and picked up the huri and put it in its accustomed place on his shoulder. Kneeling, he tied straps through the two pieces of meat over which the huri had kept watch. Next he began to drag these marbled chunks of brown and red slowly through the dirt. He dragged the first into the southern half of the clearing and set the huri down once more as his guardian. This procedure he duplicated in the northern half of the clearing, except that here he himself stoc guard over the second offering. The final carcass he still bore on his back. Outlined in the dust were two distinct drag marks, inward-looping circles that delineated the chieftain's progress from the original resting place of the meat. The coil in the dust of the northern half of the field was single; that in the southern, double. The Asadi tensed. Eisen Zwei stepped away from the second offering. Deep in his throat he made a noise that sounded like a human being, a grown man, trying to fight down a sob. This sound, I suppose I should add, is the first and so far the only example of voiced communication-discounting involuntary groans and a few guttural, growllike mumblings -- that I've heard among the Asadi. The huri responded to Eisen Zwei's plaintive "sobs" -- undoubtedly a signal -- by hopping, practically falling, off the object of its guardianship and then scrabbling miserably through the dust toward its master. Its rubbery wings dipped, twisted, folded upon themselves. (I've almost decided that the huri is incapable of flight, that its wings represent an anatomical holdover from an earlier stage of its evolution.) When both Eisen Zwei and his wretched huri had reached their sacred patch of ground at midfield the old Asadi picked up the beast and let it close its tiny hands over his discolored mane. The two of them held everyone's attention. Then the wizened old chieftain extended his arms, tilted back his head and, staring directly at the  IF sun, made a shuddering inhalation of such piteous depth that I thought either his lungs would burst or his heart break. The clearing echoed with his sob. At once the Asadi poured out of their hiding places onto the assembly ground -- not simply the adult males, but individuals of every sex and age. Even now, however, in the middle of this lunging riot, the population of the clearing divided into two groups, each one scrimmaging furiously, intramurally, in its own cramped plot of earth. Teeth flashed, manes tossed, bodies crumpled, eyes pinwheeled with inarticulate color. The hunger of the Asadi, like mid-August thunder, made low sad music over the Wild. In this hunger neither The Bachelor nor I shared. We merely watched, he from aloft, I from the trembling shadows. It did not take long for the Asadi, slashing at one another and sometimes half-maiming themselves, to devour the two carcasses. Perhaps five minutes. Like piranhas, I thought, quick, voracious, brutal. And then Eisen Zwei inhaled his grief-shot moan and the confusion ceased. Every lean gray snout turned toward him. The dying went off to die alone, if any were in fact at the point of death. I saw no one depart, but neither did I see anyone prostrate in the dirt -- as unlikely as it may sound. (Death, like birth, the Asadi must choose to experience in the intimate privacy of the jungle and the night -- in my months here I've not seen a single tribesman die in the clearing. Illness, accident and age apparently have no sting here. And, believe it or not, Tve only just now realized this. Does it mean anything? Sure. (But what?) All eyes upon him, silence steaming out of the very earth, Eisen Zwei made preparations for the third and final act of today's unanticipated, unexpectedly baroque ritual. He lowered the burden from his back, sat down beside it and -- in full view of his benumbed tribesman -- ate. The creature on his shoulder leaned into his mane and I thought that the old chief might feed the huri, give it something for its contribution to the festivities. He gave it nothing. Inert but clinging, the huri did not protest this oversight. An hour passed. Then two. Then three. By this time I had long since retired to the shade of my lean-to, emerging at fairly frequent intervals to check the goings-on in the clearing. By the second hour the Asadi had begun to move about within their separate territories. By the third hour these territories had merged so that I could no longer distinguish the two distinct "teams" of previous days. The pattern of the Daily Life of my first # days in the clearing had reassert itself -- except that now the Asadi moved with incredible sluggishness, suspiciously regarding their chieftain and refusing to encroach upon a rather large unmarked circle containing him. I decided that the ritual was about to conclude. Out among the Asadi, trying to feel through my pores the prevailing mood, I noticed that The Bachelor had come down out of his tree. But I didn't see him in the clearing. All I saw was old E.Z., isolated by a revolving barricade of legs, chewing with an expression of stupid pensiveness. The huri flapped once or twice as the afternoon progressed, but the old chieftain still did not fe it. Finally, sunset. The Asadi fled, dispersing as they always have -- but Eisen Zwei, no doubt as surfeited as a python that has just unhinged its lower jaw to admit a fawn, slumped in his place and did not move. Now three alien moons dance in the sky and I'm left with one question, the one question that I'm frightened to ask, so stark and selfevident is its answer: From what sort of creature did the old chief obtain and dress out his ritual offerings? Once before I didn't ask this question at all -- I couldn't ask it. But now, huddled beneath the most insubstantial of roofs, I am unable to fend off the terrible ramiflcations of the Asadi way of death. Speculations on cannibalisni: an extemporaneous essay From the unedited in-the-field tapes of Egan Chaney: It's a beautiful day. Just listen. Let me hold the microphone out for you -- hear that? Nothing but a thousand pairs of feet (minus six or eight feet, I suppose) slogging back and forth through a quarter inch of hot dust. Nothing but that and the soulful respiration of the Asadi and -- somewhere beyond these scarcely tangible sounds -- the stillness of all Bosk Veld. A beautiful day, just beautiful. And here I am, your roving reporter, Egan Chaney, right out here where the action is, thoroughly prepared to give you the latest and most comprehensive coverage of each new development in the clearing. Unfortunately, Eisen, I still do more waiting around than adrenelin-powered summaries of the on-going news. It's four days since your counterpart, Eisen Zwei, stirred things up with his disorderly three-course banquet. Since then, nothing. As a consequence. I'm now going to switch hats, doffing my correspondent's chapeau in favor of the dignified visor of a senior news editor. I'm walking. I'm walking among the Asadi. They fail to see me even though I'm just as solid, just as real, as they are. Even the ones I've given names to refuse to grant me the fact of my existence. I've just walked by Werner. The configuration of his features gives him a gentle look, like that of a Quaker wearing a parka. His seeming gentleness leads me to the topic of this commentary -- how could a creature of Werner's mien and disposition actually eat the flesh of one of his own kind? God help me if these aliens are sentient, my good base-camp buggers, because. I'm walking among cannibals! They encircle me. They ensorcel me. They fill me with a sudden dread, an awe such as the awe of one's parents that consumes the child who has just learned the secret of his own conception and birth. Exactly thus, my dread of the Asadi, my awe of their intimate lives... Turnbull is missing. Do you reIF member him? I named him was an editorial, not a news report. Turnbull because he was small, like You've got to expect shallow prothe pygmies the first Turnbull fundities in these things. Shallow wrote about. Now I can't find him. profundities and forthright cirSince the ritual of Day #, I've cumlocutions. Okay? I don't want been through this clearing a to disappoint anyone, hundred times -- from sideline to As a result (if I may continue) sideline, from ' endzone to cannibals are the most inwardly endzone -- searching for him with warring schizophrenics in all of all the devotion of a father. Little Nature. The dichotomy between Turnbull, squat and sly, is nowhere the two self-contained personalities among these indifferent, uncouth shines as clean and coppery as beings. I'd have found him by now, Denebola at dawn. The pattern of I know I would. He was my pygmy, indifferent association during the my little pygmy, and now these day and compulsive scattering at aloof bastards -- these Asadi of night -- as they flee from greater height than Turnbull themselves -- lends further crehimself possessed -- have eaten him! dence, I think, to my interpretation Eaten him as though he were a of theii dichotomy of soul. After creature of inferior status -- a zero all, who is more deluded than the in a chain of zeroes as long as the cannibal? His every attempt to diameter of time! May God damn achieve unity with his kind results them! in a heightened alienation from himself. (A lengthy pause during So it is with the Asadi. So it is which only the shuffling of the with -- Asadi can be heard, ) Damn it, I agree! I'm talking sense and rubbish at the same time. -- I think my shout unsettled -- But it's hot out here, and they igsome of them. A few of them nore me. They go by, they go by, flinched. But they don't look at me, revolving about me like so many these cannibals, because a cannibal motorized pasteboard cut-outs... may not go too far toward acknowAnd Turnbull's not among them, ledging the existence of another of he doesn't revolve anymore, he's his kind, so uncertain is his opinion been butchered and consumed, of himself. A cannibal is always Butchered and consumed, do you afraid that he'll ascribe niore imhear? With the same indifference portance to himself than he dethat we used to poison the Ituri and serves, In doing so, he discovers -- rout out the people who lived there, in a moment of hideous reveTurnbull's dead, base-camp huglation -- where his next meal is gers, and There are no more coming from. He always knows pygmies there are no more pygmies where it's coming from and he's there are no therefore nearly always afraid. Yes, yes, I was philosophical, but The Ritual of Death And DesigI told you a moment ago that this nation From the final draft of the one complete section of Egan Chaneys otherwise unfinished ethnography: old chieftain, whom I called Eisen Zwei, took ill. Because it had been several days since he had gorged himself during the "feast," I then supposed that his sickness was not related to his earlier intemperance. I am still oT this mind. For five days he had eten nothing, although the rest of the Asadi refused to observe his fast and began eating whatever herbs, roots, flowers, bark and heartwood they could find -- just as they had done before their ritual feast. They ignored the old chief and the old chiefs huri, much in the way they ignored The Bachelor and me. Eisen Zwei's sickness altered the pattern altered it more violently than had his several appearances in the clearing. On the afternoon of the first day of his illness he abruptly rose from his reserved center plot and made the horribly glottal, in-sucking noises that he had used to summon his people to the meat six days before. I came running from my lean-to. The Asadi moved away from the old chieftain, stopped their shuffling and shambling and stared from great platterlike eyes, the lenses of which had stalled on a single color. This delicate stasis reigned for only a moment. Then Several explanatory footnotes were provided with the publish fragment. I wrote the introduction to the fragment, and the footnotes that foUow this one are all from my hand. Thomas Benedict. the in-sucking noises were replaced by a spastic rumbling. As I broke into the clearing I saw the old man bent over at the waist, his arms above his head, heaving and again heaving until it seemed that he would soon be vomiting into the dust the very lining of his bowels. I turned away, abashed by the sight, but since the Asadi stared on, fascinated, I turned back around to observe their culture in action. It was at that moment, if at no other, that I earned the Oliver Bow Aurm Frasier Memorial Fillet, which the Academy has since bestowed upon me. The chieftain's huri flew up from his shoulder and flapped in the somnolent air like a small windcollapsed umbrella. I had never seen it fly before -- I was surprised that it was capable of flight. Its ungainly flapping excited the already well-aroused population of the assembly ground, and together we watched the huri rise above tree level, circle back over the clearing, and dip threateningly toward the brar.ches of the trees on the clearing's western edge. The old chief and his vehement, bodywracking convulsions seemed forgotten. Every pair of color-stalled eyes followed the uncertain aerial progress of the huri. It plummeted, noisily flapping, toward that precariously forked perch where This sentence did not appear in the published fragment. Egan Chaney has never received this award, though I believe he deserved it. According to Academy President Isaac Wells, he is not now, nor has he ever been, under consideration for the award.  IF The Bachelor sometimes sequestered himself. But The Bachelor was not there, I did not know where he was. The huri crashed downward through the branches, caught itself up, struggled flapping out of the jungle and returned with blind devotion to the air space over its master. I thought that at last it was going to feed, that its sole diet might well consist of Eisen Zwei's vomitings. I expected the starved creature to fall upon these -- but it did not. Somehow it kept itself aloft, flapping -- flapping -- waiting for the old man to finish. And when the old chief had completely emptied himself and fallen exhausted to his knees, it was not the huri that waded into the vile pool of vomit but the old man's shameless compatriots. Now I did not even think of returning to my lean-to. My curiosity overcame my revulsion and I watched the Asadi carry away the half-digested mass as if each semi-solid piece were an invaluable relic. There was no fighting, no elbowing, no eye-searing abuse. Each individual simply picked out his relic, took it a short distance into the jungle and deposited it in some hidden place for safe-keeping. All during this solemn recessional the huri quickened the air with its heavy wings and an anonymous Asadi supported Eisen Zwei by tenderly clutching the old chiefs mane. When everyone had taken away a chunk of regurgitated flesh the chieftain's attendant laid him down out of the sphere of hallowed spew, and the huri descended to squat by its master's head. This newest ritual was over, all over. I should mention, however, that The Bachelor appeared in the mourning throng to select and depart with some memento of Eisen Zwei's illness, just as the others had. He came last, took only a palm-sized morsel and retreated to the clearing's edge. Here he climbed into the tree above which the huri had flown its nearly disastrous mission only minutes before. Until sunset The Bachelor remained here, observing and waiting -- as I, as a cultural xenologist, must always do. On Days #, # and # Eisen Zwei continued in his illness and the Asadi paid him scant attention, their chief ministrations consisting of bringing him water twice a day and refraining from stepping on him. The huri sat by the old chieftain's head. It shifted from one foot to the other and waited -- smugly, I thought -- for its master to die. It never ate. At night the Asadi deserted their dying leader without a glance, without a twinge of doubt, and I was afraid that he would die while they were gone. Several times, looking out at his inert silhouette, moonlight dripping through the fronds, I thought he had died, and a mild panic assailed me. Did I have a responsibility to the corpse? Only the responsibility, I decided, to let it lie and observe the reactions of the Asadi when they came back at dawn. But the old chief did not die during any of these nights and on Day # another change occurred. Eisen Zwei sat up and stared at Denebola as it crossed the sky -- but he stared at the angry sun through the spread fingers of both his hands, hands he crooked into claws and tore impotently through the blur of light that Denebola must have seemed to him. The huri did not move. As always, it sat smug and blindly knowing. But the Asadi noticed the change in their leader and reacted to it. As if his writhing dissatisfaction with the sun were a clue, they divided into two groups again and formed attentive semicircles to the north and south of Eisen Zwei. They watched his challenge to the sun, his wrestling with its livid corona, his tearing at its indistinct streamers of gas with gnarled hands. At noon the old chief rose to his feet. He stretched out his arms. Sobbing, he clawed at the sky, suddenly gave up and sank back to his knees. Without any sort of visible prompting a pair of Asadi from each group went to his aid. They lifted him from the ground. Others on the clearing's edge selected large, lacquered fronds from the rubber trees and passed these over the heads of their comrades to the place where their leader had collapsed. The men supporting Eisen Zwei took these fronds, arranged them into a regal pallet and then placed the fragile body on the bed they had made. For only the second time that I could remember the Asadi had cooperated to bring about a desired end. (The other occasion, of course, had been the shaving of The Bachelor's mane.) But, like ancient papyrus exposed to the air, their cooperation disintegrated as soon as Eisen Zwei was stretched fulllength on his pallet. Each of the groups maintained a semblance of its former integrity, but aimless shambling replac chieftain-watching as the primary activity within each group. Denebola, finally free of the old man's gaze, fell toward the horizon. I walked unimpeded through the clearing and bent down over the dying chieftain, careful to avoid the huri that watched me from its uncanny, socketless face. I shrugged off the creature's literally blank stare and looked into the genuine eyes of its master. I experienced a shock, a physical jolt. The old man's eyes were burned out, blackened holes in a humanoid mask. It now made little difference that even before his staring match with the sun his eyes had not possessed the Asadi ability to run through the spectrum -- for now, burned out, blackened, they were utterly dead, two char-smoked lenses waiting for the old man's body to catch up with their lifelessness. And then the diffused red light that signaled sunset in this forested region of BoskVeld was pouring through the Wild. The clearing emptied. Alone with Eisen Zwei and his huri, I knew that it would be during this night that the old man died. I tried to find some intimation of life in his blackened eyes, saw none and withdrew to the cover of the Wild and the security of my lean-to. I did not sleep. But my worst premonitions betrayed me and in the morning I looked out to see Eisen IF Zwei sitting cross-legged on his pallet, the huri once again perched on his shoulder. And then the tenuous yellow light that marked sunrise and rejuvenation on BoskVeld filtered through the jungle. The Asadi returned, filled the clearing with their lank bodies and once again took up their positions to the north and the south of the dying chieftain. Day # had begun. And, finally, the ritual that I had decided the Asadi were resolved itself into a lesser ritual in which they merely participated -- the grandest, strangest, and most highly ordered ceremony in their culture. I call the events of Day #, taken as a cumulative whole, the Ritual of Death and Designation. I believe that we will never fully understand the narrowly "political" life of the Asadi until we can interpret, with precision, every aspect of this ritual. Somewhere in the context of the events of Day # lies the meaning of it all. And how terrible to be confronted with an elusive truth! The color of the eyes of every Asadi in the clearing (The Bachelor's excepted) declined into a deep and melancholy indigo. And stalled there. The effect of solemn uniformity struck me as soon as I stepped onto the assembly floor -- even though I had intended to look first at Eisen Zwei and not at his mourners. Profound indigo and absolute silence. So deeply absorbent were the eyes of the Asadi that Denebola, rising, could cast no glare, could throw out not a single dancing, shimmering, uncapturable ray. Or so it seemed. The day was an impressionist painting rendered in flat pastels and dull primaries -- a paradox. Then the heads in which the indigo eyes so intriguingly reposed began to rock from side to side, the chin of each Asadi inscribing a small figure eight in the air. The heads moved in unison. This went on for an hour or more as the old chieftain, as blind as his companion, sat cross-legged on his pallet, nodding, nodding in the monumental morning stillness. Then, as if they had inscribed figure eight's for the requisite period, the Asadi broke out of their separate groups and formed several concentric rings around the old man. They did so to the same lugubrious rhythm that they had established with their chins; they dragged their long bodies into place. The members of each ring continued to sway. The inaudible flute which I had once believed to be in the Wild had now certainly been exchanged for an inaudible bassoon. Ponderously, the Asadi swayed. Ponderously, their great manes undulated with a slow and beautifully orchestrated grief. And The Bachelor (all by himself, just beyond the outermost ring) swayed also in cadence with the others. Now I was the sole outcast among this people, for I alone observed and did not participate. The rhythmic swaying lasted through the remaining hours of the forenoon and on toward the approach of evening. I retired to my lean-to, but thought better of just siUing there and climbed the tree in which The Bachelor often perched. I forgot about everything but the weird ceremony in the clearing. I did not eat. I did not desert my station. Neither did I worry about my separation from the members of the Third Denebolan Expedition in base camp -- it was for this moment, I instinctively understood, that I had refused any but the most essential contacts with other human beings. Leaning out over the clearing I gave myself up completely tp the hypnotic movements of the shaggy-headed players that a generous universe had permitted me to study. No, thank merciful God, Egan Chaney had not been born too late. I nodded but I did not sleep. Suddenly Eisen Zwei gave a final sob, maniacal and heartrending, and grabbed the beast that clung with evil tenacity to his mane. He seized it with both palsied hands. (This was near the end of the day -- I could feel the last dull rays of Denebola caressing my back, covering me like a threadbare blanket, unevenly warm.) Eisen Zwei exerted himself to what seemed his last reserve of strength and, strangling the huri, lurched out of the dust to his feet. The huri flapped, twisted, freed one wing and flapped harder. The old chief squeezed his hands together and attempted to grind the life out of the creature. He was not successful. The huri beat the air with its wings, beat the chieftain about the face and finally used its tiny hands to scour fine crimson wounds in Eisen Zwei's withered cheeks and buckled forehead. During this struggle the Asadi stopped swaying, they looked on with eyes that gradually fell away from indigo toward a paler blue. Eisen Zwei drew a deep breath and shook the belligerent huri back and forth, up and down, like a bartender mixing a exotic drink. But the huri flapped out of his grasp and rose to tree level. I feared that it would dive upon me in my borrowed perch, but it skirted the inside perimeter of the clearing -- dipping, banking, silently cawing. Its imaginary screams replaced the distant but just as imaginary bassoon in my consciousness. Meanwhile Eisen Zwei, finding his hands empty, relaxed and dropped back onto his pallet. His body fell across it sideways, and his burnedout eyes fixed themselves -- coincidentally, Fm sure -- on me. The Asadi chieftain was dead. He died just at sunset. I waited for his people to flee into the Wild, to leave his brittle corpse in the clearing for an Earthman's astonished scrutiny. They did not flee. Even though the lethal twilight was gathering about them, they stayed. The attraction of the old one's death outweighed their fear of exposing themselves in an open place to the mysteries of darkness. In my arboreal lookout I realized that I had witnessed two things I had never before seen among the Asadi: Death and a universal failure to repair. What would the night bring? The featureless, unpredictable night? Ritual of Death and Designation had passed into its second major stage before I truly comprehended IF that stages existed. I ignored my hunger. I put away the thought of sleep. As I did so the Asadi converged upon the old man's corpse and those of smallest size were permitted to crowd into the center of the clearing and lift the dead chieftain above their heads. The young, the deformed, the weak, and the congenitally slight of stature formed a double column beneath the old man's outstretched body and began moving with him toward the northern endzone. Arranged in this fashion, they forced a startling revelation upon me -- these were the Asadi whose manes were a similar color and texture, a stringy detergent-scum beige. But they bore the corpse of Eisen Zwei with uncomplaining acquiescence. The larger, sleeker specimens of Asadi (those with luxuriant silver, silver-blue, or golden manes) formed single columns on each side of their lackluster counterparts and together these two units, like water inside a moving pipe, flowed toward the north --  -- the one direction that Eisen Zwei had not entered from on the day he brought those three dressedout, provocative carcasses into the clearing. I recalled that driver ants in Africa had used just this sort of tubular alignment when they wished to move great distances as a group, the workers inside the column, the warriors without. And nothing on that immense dark continent was more feared than driver ants on the march -- with, of course, the exception of man. Almost too late I realized that the Asadi would be out of the clearing and beyond my reach unless I got out of The Bachelor's tree. Nearly falling, I scrambled down. The twilight glittered with the dust of the departing cojumns, and the foliage through which the mourners marched gave off a soft gauzy glow, as if viewed through a photographer's filter. I ran. I found that I could keep up with very little effort, so cadenced and funereal was the step of their procession. I slowed to a walk behind it. Trudging in the wake of the mourners, incorrigibly hangdog in his pariahhood, was The Bachelor. As the huge gray procession snaked into the Synesthesia Wild, I noted that the circumstances of this march had reversed our roles -- now I was following him. Three or four steps behind it all, Egan Chaney -- the consummate outsider ridiculously hoping to learn the dooropening arcana of a group that had excluded him. And all the while the twilight glittered, thickened, reverberated with the footfalls and leaf nudgings of a thousand single-minded communicants. Before we had got completely out of the clearing, I looked around for the huri. I saw it flying above that part of the procession where its master was being borne forward on the shoulders of the smaller Asadi. Avoiding branches, the huri turned an inadvertent cartwheel in the air, righted itself and landed on Eisen Zwei's bony chest. Here, conspicuous above the heads of its master's people, it did a little' preening dance. It looked like an oil-coated rooster wooing a hen. Then the column snaked to the left. The Wild closed off my view of the marchers and darkness began drifting in like black confetti. I dogged The Bachelor's footsteps and waited for a new revelation. How long we trudged through the singing fronds, the perfumed creepers, the blades of blue air, I don't know. Nor will I attempt to estimate. There in the clearing, rising against the sky like an oriental pagoda, loomed the broad and impervious mass of something built, something made. By now all three moons were up and the solid black bulk of this structure was spotlighted in the antique-gold claret that the three moons together shed. Even before those of us at the end of the procession were out of the jungle, we could see the lofty, gemlike wings of this sudden artifact -- and I may not have been the only one whose first inclination was to flee, to plunge back into the nightmare forest. As we approached, members of both the inner and the outer columns began to sway from side to side, marching and swaying at once. The Bachelor's head, in fact, moved in wide arcs and his whole marching body trembled as if from the paroxysms of ague. If he had been punished for leading me to this place, perhaps he trembled now from fear. On the other hand, if the Asadi wished this temple kept inviolate, wouldn't they somehow punish me once they discovered my presence? I did have the good sense to get out of the way. I climbed a tree on the edge of the clearing that fronted the pagoda. From this vantage point I watched the proceedings in relative safety. Gray forms moved in the deep shadow that the Asadi temple cast. Suddenly two violently green flames burned in the iron flambeaus on either side of the top step of the immense tier of stone steps that led to the temple's ornate doorway. The two torchlighters -- formerly the moving gray forms -- came back down the steps. Never before had I seen the Asadi make use of fire -- this sophisticated use both of flambeaus and a starting agent that I could not even guess at destroyed a multitude of my previous conclusions about them. Meanwhile the four columns of Asadi had ranged themselves in parallel files before the stairway of the ancient pagoda and six beige-maned menials bore the corpse of Eisen Zwei, now an uncanny apple-green in the torchlight, up the broad stone steps to the stone catafalque before the door. Here they set the corpse down and lined up behind it, staring out over theit waiting kinsmen, facing the cruel ambivalence of the Wild, three on each side of the old man. I was not accustomed to such spectacle, such tawdry grandeur, and I began to think that perhaps Placenol did flow in my veins -- Placenol or something more sinister. The moons cried out with their silent mouths. The flambeaus uttered quick screamings of unsteady light. But the ritual did not conclude. The night drew on -- the moons rolled and the four files of Asadi IF tribesmen shuffled in their places. They pulled at their manes. They looked up at the leaf-fringed sky. They looked down at their feet. Some stretched out their hands and fought with the tumbling moons just as Eisen Zwei had wrestled with Denebola, the sun. But none left the clearing, though I felt many would have lik to. Instead, wrestling with their own fears, they waited. The pagoda and the corpse of their chieftain commanded them -- while #, wedged like a spike into my tree, was commanded by their awesome patience. Then the last of the three moons fell into the farthest jungle of BoskVeld. The two iron torches guttered like spent candles. The Bachelor fidgeted. Two vacuums existed. One, the vacuum in nature between the end of night and the beginning of day. The other, the vacuum in the peculiar hierarchy of the Asadi tribal structure, the vacuum that Eisen Zwei had so oddly filled -- until his struggle with the sun and his subsequent death. Night and death. Two vacuums in search of compensatory substance. Up in the air, clinging to two willowy tree branches, I made cursory mental notes in regard to this undoubtedly significant parallelism. When would dawn break? How would the Asadi designate their dead chieftain's successor? A commotion in the clearing interrupted these transcendent speculations. Looking down, I saw that the four neat files of Asadi had dissolved into a single disorganized original assembly ground. A chaos. An anarchy. A riot of unharnessed irrationality. How could a vacuum of "leadership" exist in such an arbitrary melange of unrelated parts? Only the paga had solidity; only the pagoda did not move. Then, looking up, I saw the old man's huri floating high above this disorder, floating rather than flailing, a gyrfalcon rather than a pelican. It rode the prismatic, predawn breezes with uncommon grace and skied off so effortlessly that in a moment it had dwindled to a scrap of light, picking up some predawn reflection, far beyond the temple's central spire. Watching it, I grew dizzy. Then the huri folded its wings behind it and plummeted down, dizzyingly down, through the roseate sky. I almost fell. My feet slipped through the fork that had supported me and I was left dangling, arms above my head, over one edge of the pagoda's front yard. The anxiety-torn communicants were too caught up in their panic to notice me. Meanwhile the huri rocketed earthward. It dived into the helpless crowd of Asadi and skimmed along their heads and shoulders with its cruel, serrated wings. Dipping in and out, the huri once again flapped Hke a torn window shade -- all its ephemeral grace was gone, turned to crass exhibitionism (I don't know what else to call it) and unwieldy flutterings. But the creature did what it sought to do, for in that predawn dimness I could see that it had scarred the faces of several of the Asadi. Nevertheless, a few of the tribesmen tried to capture the huri -- while, more reasonably, others ducked out of its way, fell to the ground, clutched their knees, crawled between the scrambling legs, or threw up their arms to ward it off. The huri did not discriminate. It scarred all of those who got in the way of its bladed ngs, whether they attempted to catch it or to flee. And the eyes of the harassed Asadi flashed through their individual spectrums. The heat from so many changes made the clearing phosphorescent with shed energy. I caught sight of The Bachelor and saw that his eyes had not changed. They were still mute, devoid of all intellect or passion. He stood apart from his panicked comrades and observed, neither grappling for nor fleeing from the huri. As for the noxious beast, it flew up, flew down, peformed wobbly banking movements, and slashed with its terrible pinions at everything living. Finally it shot up through the shadow of the pagoda, wildly flapping, then pitched over and dived upon The Bachelor. It flew into his face. It drove him to the ground and battered him with countless malicious thrashings. To the last individual the Asadi quieted, queued up randomly and watched this unpredictable denouement, the penultimate act in their day-long ritual. It took me a moment to understand. Then I realized: The Bachelor was the designee, the chosen one, the chieftain elect. Somehow it seemed an inevitable choice. My arms aching, I dropped from the tree onto the floor of the clearing. In front of me were the backs of twenty or thirty Asadi. I could not see The Bachelor at all, though I could still hear the churning of the huri's wings and the newly modulated breathing of the tribesmen. Then a figure, insanely rampant, flailing its arms, disrupted the smooth surface of the crowd and darted through a quickly closing gap of bodies to my right. I knew that The Bachelor had regained his feet and was trying to fight off the huri. The two of them thrashed their way up the tier of steps in front of the temple and soon were on the paving beside the catafalque where Eisen Zwei still rested. Now I could see as well as anyone, and there on that sacred, high place The Bachelor capitulated to the inevitable. He went down on his knees, lowered his head, and ceased to resist. The huri, sensing its victory, made an air-pummeling circuit over the body of the dead chieftain. It sawed devilishly at the faces of the corpse-bearers and rippled like dry brown paper. Then it settled on The Bachelor's head. Beating its wings for balance, it faced the onlooking multitude of Asadi -- and me -- with blind triumph. No one moved, no one breathed, no one acknowledgecLthe dawn as it revealed the caustic verdigris coating the pagoda like an evil frost -- like the rime on the forehead of antiquity. Slowly, after a moment twice as ponderous as the pagoda's antiquity, The Bachelor rose to his feet. He was draped in his own resignation and the invisible garb of IF an isolation even more pronounced than that he had suffered as an outcast. He was the designee, the chosen one, the chieftain elect. The huri dropp from The Bachelor's head to his shoulder and entwined its tiny fingers in the tufts of his butchered mane. There it clung, once again inanimate and scabrous. Now the Ritual of Death and Designation was nearly over and two of the corpse-bearers on that highest tier moved to complete it. They touched the head and the feet of Eisen Zwei with the tips of the two great flambeaus, and instantly the old man's body raged with green fire. The raging flame leaped up the face of the temple as if to abet the verdigris in its patient efforts to eat the building away. The Bachelor stood almost in the very blast of this conflagration and I feared that he, too, would be consumed. But he was not. Nor was the huri. The fire died, Eisen Zwei had utterly disappeared and the corpse-bearers came back down the steps and joined the anonymity of their revitalized people. The Ritual of Death and Designation had ended. For the purposes of this ethnography I will minimize the signficance of what then occurred and report it as briefly as I am able. Several of the Asadi turned and saw me in the pagoda's clearing. They actually looked at me. After having been ignored for over six months I did not know how to react to the signal honor of abrupt visibleness. Out of monumental surprise I returned their stares. They began advancing upon me, hostility evident in the rapid blurring of colors that took place in their eyes. Behind me, the Synesthesia Wild. I turned to escape into its vegetation. Another small group of Asadi had insinuated themselves into the path of 'my intended escape -- they blocked my way. Among this group I recognized the individusil whom I had given the name Benjy. Cognizant of nothing but a vague paternal feeling toward him, I sought to offer him my hand. His own nervous hand shot out and cuffed me on the ear. I fell. Dirt in my mouth, gray faces descending toward me, I understood that I ought to be terrified. But I spat out the dirt -- the faces and manes retreated as quickly as they had come and my incipient terror evaporated like alcohol in a shallow dish. Overhead, a familiar flapping. I looked up and saw the huri as it returned to The Bachelor's outstretched arm. He had released the creature upon his fellows in order to save me. This simple action, however, illustrates the mind-boggling complexity of the relationship between the Asadi chieftain and his huri. Which of them rules? Which submits to command? I At that moment I didn't very much care. Denebola had riseu and the Asadi had dispersed into the Wild leaving me dwarfed and humble in the presence of their crumbling pagoda and the reluctant chieftain who stared down from its uppermost tier. Although he remained aloof, before the day was out The Bachelor had led me back death and designation among the asadi to the original assembly ground -- for I would have never found it on my own. The admittedly banal lesson that I learned from this experience, members of the Academy, is that even for a cultural xenologist -- perhaps especially for a cultural xenologist -- it pays to make friends. Thomas Benedict speaking: a brief interpolative note I have put this paper together out of a simple sense of duty. As one of the few people Egan Chaney permitted to get close to him, I am perhaps the only man who could have undertaken this task. The section you have just read -- The Ritual of Death and Designation -- Chaney wrote in our base-camp infirmary while recuperating from exposure and a general inability to reorient himself to the society of human beings. In one of our conversations he compared himself to Gulliver after his return from the land of the Houyhnhnms. At any rate, beyond Death and Designation Chaney never wrote anything about the Asadi for publication, although immediately after his release from the infirmary  believe he intended to begin a book about them. As Vve already said, then, I undertook this compilation of disparate notes out of a sense of duty, a two-fold duty: the first to Egan Chaney, who was my friend -- the second to the vast numbers of concerned humanity who wish to understand our neighbors on other worlds in order better to understand themselves, Chaney s failure need not be our own. Upon his return to the original , assembly ground of the Asadi after the Ritual of Death and Designation, Chaney stayed two more weeks in the Synesthesia Wild. On Days # and # I made supply drops, but, just as Chaney had requested, did not fly over the clearing in the vain hope of spotting him and thereby determining the state of his health. It was enough, he told me, to verify his robustness from the fact that each week when I coptered in his supplies I could note that not a scrap of paper from the previous shipment littered the drop point. The argument that he was not the only creature in the Wild capable of hauling away the goods intended for him impressed Chaney not at all. '# might as well be, he wrote on one of his infrequent notes left in a canister at the drop point. "The Asadi have all the initiative of malaria victims. More horrible than this, friend Ben, is the face-slapping truth that there is no one else in the Wild -- no one else at all! I am now the sole owner of the personal effects of Egan Chaney; these include both his private and professional journals, a number of unfiled "official reports, a series of in-the-field tapes and a small bit of correspondence (alluded to in an early footnote). Those records concerning the Asadi that I dont own myself, I have access to as a result of my association with the Third Denebolan Expedition.  tell you this only because I know for an incontrovertible facf that during his last fourteen days in the Wild, either Chaney did not make a single entry in any of his journals or IF notebooks or he so completely effaced these dubious entries from our material realm that they may as well never have existed. We have only one complete report of any kind in regard to these last two weeks. It is a tape, a remarkable tape, and I believe that Chaney would have destroyed it, too, had we not taken his recorder from him the instant we picked him out of the jungle. I have listened to this tape many times -- in its entirety,  should add, since doing so is a feat which few other men would have the patience for. Once  attempted to discuss the tape with Chaney (this was several days after his release from the infirmary, when I believed that he could handle the terror of the experience with a degree of objectivity), but he protested that I had imagined the contents. He said that he had never recorded the least word in the tape's running jiccount of The Bachelors  -- metamorphosis?" he asked. "Is that the word you used?" I promptly played the tape for him. He listened to ten minutes of it, then got up and shut it off. His face had gone unaccountably lean and bewildered. His hands trembled. "Oh, that," he said, not looking at me. "That was all a joke. I made it up because there was nothing better to do." "The sound-effects, too?" I asked incredulously. Not looking at me, he nodded -- even though the circumstance of his pickup belied this clumsy explanation, exploded it, in fact, into untenable shrapnel. Chaney remained mute on this subject. In all of his writings and conversations in those last three months among us he never mentioned or even alluded to the sordid adventure of his final two nights. I present here a transcript, somewhat edited, of the tape in question. This final virtuoso section of our colloboration, our patchwork ethnography that I call... Chaneys monologue: two nights in The Synesthesia WOd  Hello all! What day is it? A day is. I'm leading you on an expedition... But forgive my initial lie -- it isn't a day like any other day at all. How often do I lead you on expeditions? It's Day #, I think, and yesterday The Bachelor returned to the clearing -- the first time he's been back since the day the huri anointed him, so to speak, with the fecal salve of chieftainship. I'd almost given him up. But he came back into the clearing yesterday afternoon, the huri on his shoulder, and squatted in the center of the assembly ground just as old Eisen Zwei used to do. The reaction among his Asadi brethren was identical to the one they always was old times again, gang, except that now the actor holding down center stage was a personal friend of mine -- who, by the by, had saved my life several times. Yes, sir. After the heat, the borom, and eight or a hundred sticky rainfalls -- my lean-to leaking like a colander -- I couldn't have been more gratified. Following the pattern old E.Z. established on one of his visits, The Bachelor spent the entire afternoon in the clearing, all of last night and maybe an hour or so this morning. Then he got up to leave. I've been following him ever since. By the sun it's about noon. Yes, The Bachelor permits me to follow him. Moreover, it's easy. As ou can tell I'm not even breathing ard. I'm recording as we walk. If this were a terrestrial wood, you could hear birdsong and the chitterings of insects. As it is, you'll have to content yourselves with the sounds of my footfalls and the rus tlings of leaf and twig... Here's a little rustle for you now. (The sound of a branch or leaf snapping back. General background noises of wind and, far less audibly, distant running water,  The Bachelor is several yards ahead of me but you may not be able to hear him -- he walks like a stealthy animal. Pad pad pad. Like that, only softer. I don't care to be any closer than I am because the huri's riding The Bachelor's shoulder, clinging to his mane. It is not a winsome creature, base campers -- no, indeed it's not. Since it hasn't any eyes you can't tell whether it's sleeping -- or awake and plotting a thousand villainies. That's why I'm happy back here. Let me impress you with my cleverness. A heavy thump,) That's my backpack. I've brought provisions for three or four days. You see, I don't know where we're going or how long we'll be there. But in The Bachelor I trust. Up to a point, at least. My cleverness, though, doesn't consist solely of hauling along some supplies. The backpack also houses my recorder, Morrell's miniaturized affair, the one that has a tape capacity of # hours, or, as Benedict would phrase it, ten solid days of Chaney's uninterrupted blathering. I've rigged it so that my voice will trigger the recording mechanism whenever I speak and so that the absence of my voice for a tenminute period automatically shuts it off. That's to conserve recording time -- not that I plan on talking for ten straight days -- and to keep me from fiddling with buttons when there might be other things to do. Of course, I can always go manual if I have to, countermanding the exclusive lock on my own voice, but so far none of the Asadi have been particularly voluble. Only Eisen Zwei. And his voice would not be apt to woo the ladies. Ergo, I'm once again your reporter in the field, your objective observer, your unbiased eyes. I've been thinking. Yes, I have, too. And what I wouldn't give for a copy of one of the ancient works that no one reads any more -- The Brothers Karamazov, Surely The Bachelor is none other than the Asadi equivalent of Pavel Smerddestroys himself out of his innate inability to reconcile the spiritual and the intellectual in his nature. Such passionate despondency! He cannot escape, nor accept, the dictum that the individual IF is responsible for the sins of all... in here, as still as the void. And though you probably can't believe it, I've held my peace for an entire afternoon. Maybe I said, "Damn!" two or three times after scraping my shin or tripping over a partially exposed root -- but that's all. In here I scarcely feel that it's kosher to talk, to raise my voice even to this hoarse whisper. (Chaney clears his throat. There is an echo, a hollow sound which fades.  We -- the three of us -- are inside the pagoda, in front of which The Bachelor tcame the designated "leader" of his people. I feel free to talk only because he and the huri have gone up a narrow iron stairway inside this pyramidal structure toward the ceiling -- toward the small open dome from which the exterior spire rises. I can see them from here. The stairway spirals up and The Bachelor climbs it. The huri -- no kidding. I'm not kidding at all -- flies up through the center of the spiral, staying even with The Bachelor's head, but I can't -- absolutely can't -- hear its wings flapping. In this place, that's strange. But There follows a totally irrelevant analysis of the ways in which The Bachelor resembles the .baracter of Smerdyakov in Dostoyevski's novel. To spare the reader Tve deleted it. I believe that the passage which follows was recorded approximately six hours later. it's preternaturally cold in here -- maybe the cold has something to do with it -- cold and dead, like no building ever erected in a tropical rain forest. No, damn it, even my whispers echo. It's nearly dark outside. At least it was nearly dark twenty minutes ago when we came in through the heavy doors that the Asadi -- two weeks past -- didn't even open. Now the moons must be up. Maybe a little moonlight falls through the dome overhead... No, no, Chaney -- the light in here comes from those three massive globes in the metal ring suspended several feet below the dome. The Bachelor's climbing toward that huge ring, the stairway rises toward it, it looks like a spartan chandelier, the globes like white-glowing deadflesh lamps... Listen. Listen to the light fall... i There is no sound for several minutes, perhtws a slight amplification of Chaney s breathing. Then his voice descends conspiratorially. ) Eisen, Eisen, another paradox for you physics majors. I think -- I don't know, mind you, but I think that both the chill and the luminosity in here originate -- emanate, so to speak -- from those globes up there. It's just a feeling I have. Winter sunlight. The texture of the luminosity in here reminds me of the glow around probeship deadly sort of lambence. Just listen. Hear that livid glow, that livid hellsheen? All right, let's move to where we can see. (Silence. Rhythmic breathing. Footfalls echoing hollowly off polished stone.  Pm looking straight up the well of the stairway. An echo: Way way ,way way...) C'mon, Egan, keep it down, keep it down... better, much better. I can see the huri flapping up there noiselessly -- The Bachelor's legs ascending the spiral. The staircase seems to terminate in a glass platform off to one side and just a little below the suspended ring of the "chandelier." The Bachelor is ascending to this platform -- there's nowhere else he can go. I'm looking up through the axis of the dome, right up through the chandelier ring. Outside, above the dome, is a spire pointing up at BoskVeld's sky. Inside the dome, depending from its apex, there's a sort of plumbline -- of what looks like braided gold -- that drops down the central shaft of the pagoda to a point...just about a foot above the suspended ring. A foot, I think. Can't tell for certain. Been in the jungle so long my depth perception's shot -- just as the Ituri pygmies used to have trouble adjusting vision to open savannah. I apologize for the complicated description of the upper recesses of this temple, but the arrangement is intricate and that's where The Bachelor's going. I can make sense neither of the architecture nor of his intentions... And my neck's getting sore, tilted back... still in something of a whisper): Me again. The Bachelor reached the glass platform beneath the chandelier ring about an hour ago. He's been standing up there like a Pan-Olympic diver ever since, except that he's looking -- as far as I can tell -- at the braided gold plumbline that hangs slightly above him from the temple's dome. He can't quite reach it from the platform he's on. Would he like to? I don't know... no, he can't reach it. Not without a trapeze, daringly, could he reach that gilded pendulum. And then, what for? As the channel announcers on the telecom operas would say, "Let's leave Billy Bachelor high atop the Callisto Medcenter, lamenting the lost Lenore, and follow E. G. Chanwick as he goes spelunking through the mysterious satellite's caverns of steel in his ongoing, bi-weekly endeavor to unravel the Secret of the Universe." ( Unsuccessfully stifled snickers. Resultant echoes. Footfalls.) I'll be your tour guide, base campers. Follow me. This pagoda seems to be a museum. Or a mausoleum perhaps. At any rate, a monument to a dead culture. The walls around three sides of the bottom of this place are lined with tall spindly cabinets, display cases of a wildly improbable design. Each one consists of fan-shaped shelves that fold out from a central axis and lock into place on different levels from one another. Chaney blows.) Dust. Dust on everything. But not particularly thick. On the shelves -- the shelves have the fragile warmth of mother-of-pearl -- are specimens IF of implements and art work. (A click, like stone on stone. Chaney s breathing.) I'm holding a statue about a foot-and-a-half high. It represents an Asadi male, fullmaned and virile. But the statue depicts him with a kind of cape around his shoulders and a cruel pair of fangs such as the Asadi -- those of today, at any rate -- don't possess. Repetition of previous sound, followed by a metallic ping.) Here's an iron knife, with a wooden handle carved so that the top resembles some animal's skull. Everything else in the cabinet looks like a weapon or a heavy tool, the statue's definitely an anomaly here. I'm going across the chamber -- to the wall without any cabinets on it. Footfalls. Echoes.) The Flying Asadi Brothers are still up there, more rigid than the statue I just picked up. I'm passing directly beneath them now, directly beneath the dome, the iron ring, the energy globes, the weighted golden cord that falls from the dome... Dizzy... the dimness and the distance up there make me dizzy. Don't look at them, then, Chaney. Just keep moving -- moving toward the opposite wall. Through an opening in the lower portion of the helical stairway. Toward the horn-colored wall on which there are no cabinets, gang, just rows upon rows of -- damn this light, this hollowness...let me get closer -- of what look like tiny plastic wafers...rows of wafers hung from a pouple thousand silver rods protruding for about five or six inches at right angles from the wall. The wall's just one big elegant pegboard glowing like a fingernail with a match behind it. The rows of these wafers -- cassettes, cigarette cases, match boxes -- whatever you want to call them -- begin at about waist level and go up two or three feet higher than I can reach. Asadi height, I suppose. Five or six minutes, during which only Chaney s breathing can be heard.) Interesting. I think I've figured this out, Eisen, I want you to pay attention. I've just unfastened the carved wingnut from the end of one of these narrow silver rods and removed the first of several tiny cassettes hanging from it. Wafer was a serendipitous word choice, these little boxes are as thin as two or three transistor templates welded together. The faces of the things are about two inches square. I counted fifty of them hanging from this one six-inch rod and there are probably three thousand rods on this wall. That's about # cassettes altogether and this section of the pagoda, more than likely, is just a display area. But I want to describe the one I've got in my hand. I want to tell you how it works and maybe -- if I can restrain myself -- let you draw your own conclusions. In the center of this wafer -- which does seem to be made of some kind of plastic, by the way -- there's an inset circle of glass with a diameter of less than half an inch. A bulb or an eye, call it. Beneath this eye is a rectangular tab, flush with the surface of the cassette. Above the bulb, directly under the hole through which the wall rod passes, is a band containing a series of different-colored dots, some of the dots touching each other, some not. The spacing of them probably has significance -- or so I'd guess. (A chuckle.) And here's how this little cracker box works...oh, Eisen, don't you wish you were here instead of me? I do, too. I really do... It's purposely simple, I think. All you do is hold your thumb over the right half of the tab at the bottom of the cassette. Then the fireworks begin. (A pleased laugh; subsequent echo.) Right now the eye in the center of the wafer is flashing through an indecipherable program of colors. Reds, violets, greens. Greens, sapphires, pinks. All premeditatedly interlaced with pauses -- pregnant pauses, no doubt...In this dimness my hands are alternately lit and shadowed by the changing colors. Beautiful, beautiful. That's just it, in fact. The entire system probably sacrifices a degree of practicality on the altar of beauty. There -- I've shut it off. All you do is cover the left half of the control rectangle with your thumb. It may be possible to reverse the program -- replay it back to a desired point, so to speak -- but I haven't stumbled on the method yet. At least I don't think I have. It's impossible for me to remember the sequences of colors -- though it probably wasn't a bit difficult for the Asadi who composed, manufactured and used these things, however long ago that may have been. (A thumping noise.) I'm pocketing five of these cassettes, putting them in my backpack. For the greater glory of science. To set the shirttails of old Oliver Bow Aurm's ghost aflame with envy. So Eisen and Morrell will have something to put their screwdrivers to. Musingly) Look at that wall. Can you imagine the information on hand here? The level of technology necessary to devise a storage and retrieval system for a "language" that consists of complicated spectra patterns? By the way, what do you suppose I was "reading?" I'd guess that the band of colored dots above the eye is the description of the contents. The title, so to speak. Maybe I was scanning Fornications and Deflowerings by the Marquis de Asadi. A chuckle.) I noticed that my hands had begun to sweat whilejhe program was running. Sober again) No, the eyebook -- let's call them eyebooks -- was the first one on that particular rod. Maybe it's their War and Peace, their Brothers Karamazov, their Origin of the Species, their Golden Bough. And what the hell have they done with it? Stuck it in a crumbling godforsaken temple in the middle of the Synesthesia Wild and forgotten about it! What colossal waste -- what colossal arrogance! (A cacophony of echoes, a painful ringing. ) (A whisper, scarcely audible.) That's right, you two, you Bungling Brothers aerialists, pretend I don't exist. Pretend you can't hear me. Ignore the millennia. Ignore your IF ancestors whispering to you from their deaths. (Venomously) And damn you both to hell! I think I slept for a while. I went to sleep under the rows and rows of eyebooks. Maybe for an hour. Not any more than that. I can tell time with the bottoms of my feet -- by the warmth of the depression in the backpack where I put my head. A noise woke me, a ringing of iron. Now I'm on the helical stairway high above the museum floor. I'm in a curve of the stairway a little below and opposite the glass platform where The Bachelor was standing. He isn't there anymore. A moment ago he chinned himself up to the cold ring of the chandelier, gained his feet and balanced on the ring, then reached out and grabbed the plumbline that drops down from the dome. The huri? The huri squats on the globe, in the triangle of globes, pointing toward the front of the temple -- he got off The Bachelor's shoulder a good while ago. After grabbing the gold braid The Bachelor fashioned a noose and slipped his neck into it. Then he swung himself out over the floor so that his feet -- right now, at this very moment -- are hanging a little below the ring of the chandelier. I'm watching him hang there, his feet turning, inscribing an invisible circle inside the larger circle of the globe-set fixture. But hcisn't dead. No, he's not a bit dead. The noose is canted so that it catches him under the throat in the plush of his mane. In the two weeks since his designation his mane has thickened considerably, especially along his jaws and under his throat, and the new fur cushions the steadily constricting braid. So now he's just hanging there. The dangling man. (Listlessly) A pretty damn interesting development, I suppose. At least the huri acts like it's interesting. The huri's watching all this with either excitement or agitation, beating its wings sporadically and skittering to stay atop the globe it's perched on. (A bump. Unintelligible mumbling.) See if you can hear it. I'll hold the microphone out for you. (Silence, vaguely static-filled.) That's it, the huri's claws scrabbling on the globe -- the sound of The Bachelor's feet turning north, north-east, east, south-east, south, south-south west... (After almost ten minutes of near-silence) A while ago I saw that The Bachelor had begun to drool. A thin thread of something milky glistened on his bottom lip as he turned, his feet revolving first to the rjght and then back to the left. I saw his mouth working -- almost like an insect's mouth. The strand of drool got longer, it didn't drop away into the abyss of the stairwell, it kept growing and growing, lengthening like a somehow milky extension of the gold plumbline. Now the strand has fallen down the center of the helix so that it's a little below the place where I'm sitting. I can see that it's not a liquid at all, not any sort of spittle or vomit. It's a fiber, something spun from The Bachelor's gut and paid out through his mouth. (Unawed) Beautiful and grotesque at once -- and ril bet you think Vm drunk or drugged. Making silk out of a souse's fears, so to speak. But I've imbibed no bourbon, laddies, played with no Placenol -- and I wish you were sitting on this cramped iron stairway watching this disgusting show, this ritual unraveling of The Bachelor's innards. Gut-strands. Beautiful and grotesque gut-strands. Unemotionally) God, but my patience has been tried... (Several more minutes pass, A faint flapping commences, continues for a while, then ceases.) The Bachelor's been paying out silk as if he were made of it. The single strand I told you about a while ago, well, it damn near reached the floor. Then he started working with his hands, reeling it back in and making his body turn faster in the canted noose. He's wrapping himself in the stuff, like an Egyptian king who's decided to be a mummy before he dies. Meanwhile he makes more and more 'cloudy thread. Guess who's gotten into the act, gang? Right again. The huri flew off its globe when The Bachelor began reeling in his gut strand and caught up a section of the strand in its claws. Then, with both its claws and hands, flapping in higgledy-ziggledy circles, it covered The Bachelor's feet, his ankles, and his shins. After that it settled on the old boy's wrapped feet. Now, its wings outspread, its claws probably hooked into The Bachelor's flesh. the huri's hanging up there like a bat and still wrapping its master in gut-extruded cable. And the damn thing's blind, mind you, blind as -- a drunken xenologist. Good boy, Chaney. I don't know how long it'll take, but in a while The Bachelor will be encased -- completely encased, it seems -- in a murky chrysalis. The huri looks as if it would like to finish and tie off the job as soon as it can. It's already binding in the Asadi's hands, pulling thread around his thighs, clawing up his long body inch by inch like a freakish circus performer. Then The Bachelor will be nothing but a lopsided pupa hanging from a gold cord inside the loft of his ancestors' rickety barn -- I guess. ( Chaney grunts. Shuffling sounds; perhaps the shifting of a burden.) I guess. Don't ask me. I won't watch any more of this foolishness. I'm dizzy. I'm fed up with this nonsense. If I can make it down these steps in this hell-glow I'm going to lie down beside the wall of eyebooks and go to sleep. Directly to sleep. (Footfalls on the iron steps. Unintelligible mumbling. ) Interlude: early afternoon of Day tionally): Hello. I'm talking to Benedict alone now. Ben? Ben, you're supposed to make a drop tomorrow. Your twentieth. Can you believe that? I can't either. It IF doesn't seem like more than ten or twelve years that I've been out here. Twenty drops. Well, I may not pick up this latest one. Not for a while, anyway. God knows when The Bachelor will want to lead me out of here and back to the clearing. At the moment he's occupied. Let me tell you how. First, let me tell you what's going on. I'm standing here by one of the dusty display cases. All its shelves are folded up against the central axis, like the petals of a flower at night. But it's early afternoon, Ben -- dull light is seeping through the dome. Even so, every cabinet in the place is shut up like a new rose. Every one of them. It happened, I guess, while I was sleeping. The globes overhead, the three globes in the chandelier up there -- their fires have gone out of them, they're as dead and as mutely mottled as dinosaur eggs. I don't know exactly when that happened, either. One other thing -- the eyebooks don't work today. I've fiddled with twenty or thirty of them, holding my thumb over the rectangular tab beneath the eye -- but nothing, not even two colors in a row, not so much as a glimmer. From the end of the previous section to the beginning of this one Chaney engaged in a great deal of "irrelevant blathering." I have deleted it. Altogether, about twelve or fourteen hours of real time passed, time during which Chaney also slept and ate. In this "Interlude" I have taken the liberty of borrowing small sections from the deleted passages in order to provide a continuity which would not otherwise exist. For simplicity's sake, these insertions are not marked. Today the pagoda's dead. That's all there is to it: the pagoda's dead. And I have the feeling that it won't come alive again until Denebola has set and darkness sits on BoskVeld like the shadow, the crumpled shadow, of the huri's wings. But The Bachelor -- the cocoon -- you want to know what happened to him. To it. Again, I don't know exactly. During the night the plumbline from which he fashioned the noose -- the line from which he then hung out over the pagoda's floor while the huri wrapped him in the false silk of his own bowels -- that golden line, I tell you, has lengthened and dropped through the ring of the chandelier so that it's now only a few feet from the floor. It descended, I suppose, of its own accord. (A chuckle,) I'd estimate that between the floor and the bottom of The Bachelor's chrysalis there's now only enough space to wedge a small stool. A very small footstool...and now the ungainly pupa hungs in the daylight gloom of this chamber and turns slowly, slowly, first to the right, then to the left, like the gone-awry pendulum in a grandfather clock. That's it, Ben, brawny Big Ben, this whole building's just an outsized timepiece. You can hear Bosk Veld ticking in its orbit -- Listen... As for the huri, it crouches on the uppermost node of the pupa -- the point at which the braid breaks through -- and rides The Bachelor's mummified head as it used to ride his shoulder. Each time the wrapped body turns this way I feel that the huri's staring at me, taking my measure. If I had a pistol. I'd shoot the. damn thing -- I swear I would. Even if it meant that the concussion would split the seams of this temple and send it crashing down on my ears -- every fragile cabinet shattering, every eyebook bursting open. So help me, I would -- which is probably why I didn't bring a pistol, a hand-laser or a light-cannon out here in the first place. But now the little beastie is clawing nervously at the silken membrane, unhinging its wings and shaking their outstretched tips a little -- I think, gang, we're oing to get some action. Give me a few minutes, just a few... Later) Action, indeed. The huri's moving in its own catch-as-catchcan fashion down the swaying cocoon that houses The Bachelor. As it moves it peels back pieces of the membrane, snips them off with its feet, transfers the pieces to its greedy hands and eats them. That's right, eats them. I had been wondering what the little bugger subsisted on and this apparently is the answer -- it feeds on the husk of the Asadi chieftain's metamorphosis, it feeds on the rind of its master's involuntary change. That's phrasing it a little philosophically, I suppose, but I can't help thinking that the huri's eating The Bachelor's former self. It's crabwalking in a spiral down the cocoon -- a spiral that mirrors the great corkscrew of the pagoda's staircase -- and it furiously gobbles up the membrane that it has snipped away. TTie beast is at the hollow of The Bachelor's chest and I can see my old friend's head. I mean that I can see the outline of his head -- because even though the silken covering has been eaten away, a milk-blue film remains. It clings to his features like a thin hood. It's moist and trembly and through it I can see the death mask of his face. Ben, Ben, you can't expect me to stay here and watch this. Tell the others not to expect that of me. The bitch-goddess of xenology has worked me over too many times already and I'm nauseated with fatigue. With disgust. It's worse than last night. There's an odor in the temple, a smell like excrement and rot and the discharges of the glands -- I don't know what... (A retching sound. Then a rapid succession of footfalls, suggestive of running. ) genial): We're in the Wild again. Out in the open. Out among the singing leaves, the dancing moons, the glittering winds, the humidity is horrible. It makes my nose run. But after spendihg one sorenecked night in the refrigerated vault of that Asadi warehouse -- and one stomach-turning day in it when it changed from a warehouse into a charnel house -- well, the humidity's a welcome relief. Yes, indeed. Let my nose run as it may, where it may -- even though I don't know where the hell the face it's running on is running to. Actually, we're not running at all. We're moving quite leisurely, the Bachelor and me ajid the huri -- in no hurry at all. Clinically) I feel pretty well now. The horror of this afternoon has evaporated. I don't know why it made me ill. It wasn't that bad. IF really, I should have stayed and watched everything. That's what I came out her for. But when the smell in there got so bad -- my system's been under a strain. I had to get out of there. I bolted for the pagoda's entrance, pushed the heavy doors aside, ran down the tier of steps. The sunlight increased my nausea -- but I couldn't go back inside, Ben, so I'm not entirely certain what the final circumstances of The Bachelor's removal from the cocoon were. Like a little boy waiting for the library to open, I sat on the bottom step of the pagoda and held my head in my hands. I was ill. Really ill. It wasn't just an emotional thing. But now I feel better and the night -- the stars twinkling up there like chipped ice -- seems like my friend. (Wistfully) I wish I could navigate by those stars -- but I can't. Their patterns are still unfamiliar to me . Maybe we're going back to the clearing. Maybe I'll be able to pick up tomorrow's drop after all. I know I feel well enough now to try. The Bachelor is striding ahead of me; the huri's on his shoulder. I know -- (The sound of wind and leaves corroborates Chaneys testimony that they are out of doors, out of the temple,  -- I know, you're wondering what he looks like, what his disposition is, what his metamorphosis accomplished for him. Well, g#ing. I'm not sure. You see, he looks about the same. As I said, I didn't go back into the museum. I waited outside until the sun had set, thinking all the while that I would go back up the steps when the darkness was complete. I knew that my two charming friends couldn't get out any other way, that I wouldn't be stranded there alone. At least I hadn't seen any other doors while I was inside. The ancient Asadi apparently didn't see any need to leave themselves a multitude of outs. The end they've come to supports that hypothesis. But before I could steel myself to reentering the pagoda -- just as the twilight had begun to lose its gloss -- The Bachelor appeared on the highest step. And came down the steps. And walked right by me. He didn't look at me. The huri, clinging to his mane, had the comatose appearance that I remember it's possessing when Eisen Zwei came into the Asadi clearing for the second time. Now I know why it looked "so bloated and incapable of movement -- it had just ingested the old man's pupa, if Eisen Zwei could have so encased himself. So help me, I still haven't figured this out. I may never figure it out. Anyhow, I noticed only two small changes in The Bachelor as he stalked past me into the jungle. First, his mane is now a full-grown collar of fur -- still a little damp from the filmy blue substance that lined the chrysalis. And second, a thin cloak of this film stretches between The Bachelor's naked shoulderblades and falls in folds to the small of his back. Probably, it just hasn't dropped away yet. And that's it. His eyes are still as mute, as white, as uncommunicative as they had ever been. We're in a tunnel, sort of. We've been walking, slipping beneath the vines, about thirty or forty minutes. A while ago we came upon a kind of footpath, a beaten trail that permits us to walk upright -- just as if we were in a recreation park. The only such trail I've seen in the Synesthesia Wild, ever. The Bachelor's moving down it easily and once again I'm having no difficulty keeping up. But I'm lost. (Aconsiderable pause during which the sounds of the Wild assert themselves: wind through the leaves, distant water, the soft shushing of feet in the dirt. ) (Pensively) All the time I've spent in the Asadi clearing, all that time watching them amble around and wear down their heels to no purpose -- it seems like centuries ago. No kidding, Ben, Eisen. That time in the clearing just doesn't exist right now. Lost as I am, I feel like I could follow The Bachelor down this narrow trail forever. But his metamorphosis -- or lack of it -- bothers me. I've been thinking about it. My considered, but not necessarily considerate, opinion is that the old chieftain is exactly what he used to be. Anatomically speaking, that is. Maybe the very brief time he spent hibernating in that homemade sleeping bag of his altered him psychologically rather than physically. (Ten minutes of wind, water, and shush-shushing feet. ) something in the trees ahead of us. A crouched, dark shape. The Bachelor just turned on me -- he wouldn't let me approach with him. If I don't stay fairly close. I'll be lost out here. Damn you, you hulking boonie, I won't let you leave me. We're off the trail. We've been off it a good while and the trees, the vines, the twisted roots -- everything looks the same; one spot is like ahother. I'm disobeying the bastard. I'm staying close enough to keep him in sight every second. He's out there in a ragged hallway of leaves moving toward the thing in the tree. I know that it's there because he knows that it's there. It's like a tumor in the branches, a lump to which the moonlight gives a suspicious fuzziness. You should see the way he's approaching that thing. He's spread his arms out wide and is taking one long step at a time, one long easy step. Like an adagio S.S. man. The membrane between his shoulder blades has opened out, too, so that it makes a fan-shaped drapery across his back. Shadows shift across it, shadows and moonlight... What a weird boonie. You should see him. He's a kind of moving, blown. up version of the drunken huri clinging to his mane. We're closer now. That thing up there, whatever it is, it's either dead or inanimate or hypnotized -- hypnotized, I think. I'm sure that it's one of the Asadi. A gray shape. Ordinarily, you don't get this close at night, you just don't. The Bachelor's hypnotized it with his slow-motion goose step, the filmy rippling of the membrane across his back and arms -- maybe even with IF his empty eyes...now we're just waiting, waiting. I'm as close as I can get without jeopardizing the purity of this confrontation. I can see eyes up there. Asadi eyes, stalled on a sickly pink. Aloud, over a sudden thrashing.) The damn thing's just jumped out of the branches! It's one of the Asadi all right, a lithe gray female. The Bachelor's wrenching her backward to the ground, the huri's fallen sidelong away from him, fluttering, fluttering in the thicket under the tree! A heavy bump; continued thrashing.) Chaney s voice skyrockets to an weakly) Leave me alone, leave me . Violent noises: then a hum of static and low breathing. ) aches -- I've bn ill again. But it's sweet here; I'm kneeling in grass under the trees by the edge of the pagoda's clearing... I've been ill again, yes, but I've done heroic things. I'm doing a damn heroic thing right now. You can hear me, can't you? I'm talking out loud... he's not about to stop me -- he's just going to sit there opposite me with his long legs folded and take it... Aren't you, boonie? Aren't you? That's right, that's a good boonie... He can't believe the deed I've done, Ben. He can't believe I've freed him from that scabby little battlecock. There's blood on the grass. Dark sweet blood. Too sweet, Ben. I've go to get up... Chaney moans. A rustling of clothes -- then his strained voice) Okay. Fine. A little bark to lean against here, a tree with spiny shingles. A stumping sound.) Good, good -- I refused to let myself get disoriented, Ben. We came marching -- slogging, more like -- right through that opening there, that portal of ferns and violet blossoms... oh, hell, you can't see where I'm pointing, can you? You wouldn't see, probably, even if you were here. But we slogged to this place from that direction I'm pointing and I kept my head about me all the way. My head, by the way, aches because he bashed me down -- he elbowed me in the eye. They always elbow, the Asadi -- they think elbows were given to them to jab in other people's ribs and faces, even The Bachelor. He knocked me down, bloodied me, damn him, when I tried to stop him from slaughtering this poor woman here, the one that lies here butchered in the grass. He knocked me down and I couldn't stop him. Then he whirled her up over his shoulder, grabbed the huri out of the bushes by its feet. Took off through the jungle, the Wild ringing like a thousand wind chimes because of my head, my aching eye. To keep from getting lost, I had to follow him. E)ear God, I had to hobble along after that crazy crew... Then when we reached this little patch of grass among the trees -- the pagoda's right over there -- he threw the dead woman on the ground and disemboweled her. I saw him doing it as I came up through the jungle after him... you see, I got here three or four minutes after he did. I collapsed, I collapsed and watched. I held my bad eye and squinted through the other... in ten or twelve minutes I'd forgotten what it all meant, and the woman didn't look like an Asadi any more. Now the grass is littered with her -- and The Bachelor didn't even have to strike me to keep me from interfering. But, Ben, I couldn't help that; it was all owing to my head and my fatigue -- I wasn't thinking straight. I didn't realize he was butchering the creature. As soon as I could I remedied the situation. And that's why I'm still a little sick. But my head's clear now; it aches but it's clear. And the boonie isn't about to strike me again. Are you, boonie? All he can do is sit and stare at me. I've intimidated the hell out of him. He thought I was some kind of maneless Asadi vermin and he can't reconcile himself to this new image of me. Poor mute bastard. My heroic deed kicked him right in his psychological solar plexus. (Almost pompously) As the nfioons are my witness, I killed the huri. I killed the huri! No, no, the boonie can't believe it either but I swear by holy heaven it's true. Just look at him, look at him making slow Figure eights with his chin. God, but I've boggled him! He thought me just another Asadi, a low Asadi dog -- and when he had finished carving up that pitifully helpless woman, that sweet longlegged lady, he set the huri down atop her carcass -- I had to do something then. I pulled myself up. But the huri was sitting there on her butchered body, staring at me blindly. Old boonie-boy had put it there to guard her corpse, just the way Eisen Zwei had done in the clearing the day he carried in three slaughtered kinsmen as a feast offering. The huri meant I wasn't supposed to move, I was supposed to be a good cannibal and wait until dinner had been properly served. I'm not an Asadi -- I'll be damned if I'm an Asadi and I didn't -- no, by God, I didn't -- pay any heed to The Batchie-boy's stupid sentinel. I killed it. I ran up and kicked the huri with my boot. It fluttered backward and I was upon it with the heel of my boot, grinding its Filthy little no-face into the grass. Its body split open. Pus spilled out like putty from a plastic tube, stinking to the skies -- that's what made me sick, the sight and the stink of the huri's insides. I stumbled away, fell to my knees... The Bachelor couldn't move. over him, a power. He just sat, like he's sitting now, and watched me. The smell of the grass revived me, convinced me of my own heroism, my own crimson-bloody heroism -- and that's when I knew I had to tell you about it, when I started talking through my sickness and the toosweet smell of the grass. (Mockingly) Are you awed, boonie? Is that your trouble? Could I walk right over there and kick your face in if I tried? Yes, oh, yes, I could. Damn it, Ben, I'm in control, I'm on top! IF ( Laughter, prolonged laughter: then virtual silence. ) Power's an evanescent thing, Ben. (Musingly) He just stood up. The Bachelor did, uncoiled and faced me like an enemy. I thought I was dead, I really did. I know that's a turnabout -- you don't have to require consistency of me when I'm ill. But he only stared at me for a minute, then turned and walked across the open clearing toward the temple. He's climbing the steps right now, very slowly, a gray shape like the gray shape he killed. Every moon is up. The three of them ripple his shadow down the tier of steps behind him. I'm not going into that place again, gang, he needn't wait for me -- and he isn't waiting. Fine. Excellent. I'll stay here in the grass, under the vines and fire blossoms, until it's morning. Let him go, let him go... But, damn him, he can't leave me in this gut-strewn glade! It reeks; the grass is black with gore. And here -- just look at this. What the hell is it? You've got to get down i groaning it: a little pocket of globular tripe here on the edge of the grass, just where the moonlight falls. Three of them nestled in the grass, three palpitant little globes -- I think they're ova, Ben, all of them about the size of my thumbnails. Much bigger than a human being's minute reproductive cells. But ova nevertheless. Ovaries. That's my guess. They glisten and seem alive, glowing as they do... The Bachelor placed them here while , he was butchering the poor lady. He was careful not to crush them -- he laid them out so that they'd form an equilateral triangle here in this nest of grass. It's like -- well, it's like the arrangement of the globes in the chandelier ring inside the pagoda... But I'm not going back in there, is it? Eisen, you said we could se it from this hemisphere -- you said it was visible. But I'm standing here, standing out here in front of the Asadi's hulking temple where there aren't any branches to block my view and, damn you, Eisen, I don't see it. I don't see it! Just those blinding moons dancing up and down and a sky full of sparkling cobwebs. Where's Sol? Where's our own sun? Eisen, you said we could see it with the unaided eye. I'm sure you said that -- but I don't see it! It's lost out there in a cobwebbing of stars -- lost! (Suddenly resolute) I'm going back into the temple. Yes, by God, I am. The Bachelor doesn't care if I stay out here and rot with the poor butchered lady he's abandoned. He's abandon me, too. Twenty minutes I've been out here alone, twenty minutes staring at the dark grass, the dark sweet grass. He wants me to die from its cloying reek; that's what he's after. I killed his huri. A man who kills a huri isn't one to put up with a passive death, though. He forgot that. If I have to die, Ben, it'll be heroically, not the way he wants. I've taken too much to sit cross-legged under the trees and wait for either my own death or the corrupt hunger that would keep me alive. I won't eat his offering, that poor butchered lady, and I won't stay out here either! There's a beautiful golden cord in the pagoda, a beautiful golden cord. That should do it. If the boonie's still too shaken up from his loss, his stinking bereavement, to lead me back to the clearing -- the Asadi clearing -- that plumbline ought to serve. I've worked with my hands; I can fashion a noose as well as any dumpling-hearted boonie. And then carry it through where he couldn't. Just come along, gang, and see if I can't. (The shush-shushing of feet in the dirt, Chaney s shortmndedness as he climbs the temple s steps, the inwardgroaning utterance of a heavy door.) (From this point on, Chaneys each word has the brief after-echo, the telltale hollowness imparted by the empty volume of a large building s interior) It's cold. You wouldn't believe how cold it is in here, Ben. Cold and dark. No light is filtering down through the dome and the chandelier -- the chandelier's out! My eyes aren't accustomed... ,(A bump.) Here's a cabinet. I've scraped my elbow. The shelves are down and I scraped my elbow on one of the shelves. I'm Just one of the many apparently unsimulable conditions thaf convinces me of the authenticity of the tapes. How much of what Chaney reports is hallucination rather than reality, however, I'm not prepared to conjecture. going to stand here a minute. The cabinets give off their own faint light, a very warm faint light, and I'll be able to see a good deal better if I just stand here and let my pupils adjust. It's the same cabinet I described for you last night! Or one just like it, I guess. The statue, the knife, the implements and weapons -- nothing is different. (A scraping sound, somewhat glassy. ) Well, wait a minute. Here's a difference. The bottom petals of this cabinet have been broken off, torn away. I'm standing in the shards. And I'm not the vandal, Ben -- the shards were already here. I just stepped on them, that's all. The little bump I gave the cabinet couldn't have done this -- someone had to work energetically at these shelves to break them away. The Bachelor, maybe? The Bachelor's the only one in here besides me. Did he want an axe to stalk me with? Did he need one of his ancestors' ornamental knives before he felt competent to take on the pinkfleshed Asadi outcast who killed his poor rubber rooster? Poor, poor Chaney s voice becomes huskily confidential) I think that's it, Ben, I think that's why the globe lamps are out, why this place is so dark, why this cabinet is broken. The boonie wants to kill me -- he's stalking me in the dark. Well, that's fine, too. That's more heroic than the cord, an excellent death -- I'll even grapple with him a little. Beowulf and Grendel. It shouldn't take very long. The lady he killed felt almost nothing -- I'm sure of IF (A confusion of echoes, dissonant and reverberating. Complete silence but for Chaneys chronic shortwindedness. This continues for four or five tense minutes. Then a forceful crack followed by a tremendously amplified shattering sound -- like a box full of china breaking. Chaney gives a startled cry.) (Whispering) My dear God -- the pagoda's flooded with light now -- flooded with light from the three globes in the great iron fixture that yesterday hung just beneath the dome. It's different now -- the iron ring is floating about five feet from the floor. The Bachelor is inside the ring, stabbing at one of the globes with a long-handled pick. He's already chipped away a big mottled piece of its covering. The piece shattered on the floor. You heard it shatter. (Aloud) And all three globes are pulsing with energy, temple with electricity -- a deadly chill -- their own anger. I'm sure they've generated the field that keeps the iron ring afloat, the ring hovering like a circular prison around The Bachelor's shoulders. The plumbline whips back and fourth as he jabs -- it has damn near entangled him. And he's caught inside the ring -- caught there and he keeps jabbing at the foremost globe with his pick. (The jabbing sounds punctuate Chaney s headlong narrative -- apparently, another piece of the globes covering falls to the floor and shatters.) Why the hell doesn't he duck out of there? Is he trapped in that field? I can see he's too damn busy to be worried about me, to want to kill me. All right. That's fine. I'll cheer him on, I'll give him moral supAll the cabinets are open. All the shelves are down. I can see them now. The pagoda's alive again. All it took was the dark and a litfle violence. The foremost globe has split wide open -- he's knocked the crown off it. And listen, Ben, listen. Sornething is moving inside it, inside the intact bottom half. The ring is canting to one side and it's dimmer in here. Suddenly dimmer. If he keeps banging away at those globes this whole place will be drained of light -- the shelves will fold back up and lock into position forever. Can you hear the scrabbling in the broken globe? Can you hear it, Ben? Do you already know what it is? I can see it and hear it both. In this dimness there's a flickering in that shell, a flickering like the hissing tatters of a black flame... Sweet Jesus, Ben, it's a huri scrabbling about in there, a black-black, blind-blind huri! It's clawing at the shell and pulling itself upright even as the ring dips toward the floor. (A fluttering which is distinctly audible over both Chaney s voice and the tapping of The Bachelor s pick. ) It's in the air -- a clumsy beast a little larger than the one I killed. And there's a smell in here just like the smell when I ground out the guts of the other huri. Damn it! The Asadi are idiots! The Bachelor is stabbing at another globe -- he wants to let another one out. He wants to let all three of them out so that we'll be plunged in darkness and flapping wings and maybe even the dome will fall in on us. To himself he can do that -- to me, no sir! I'm getting out of here, Ben, I'm going to go tumbling down the steps while there's still light to tumble by. What a madhouse, what a sacred madhouse. Old Oliver Bow Aurm should kiss the nearest maggot for saving him from this -- figurative maggot, that is. BoskVeld crawls with figurative maggots -- and I'm coming home. I'm coming home to you. To you, my kinsmen... Footfalls, a heavy wooden groaning, and then the unechoing silence of the night as Chaney emerges into the Wild) at them go off! I'm unloading my backpack. I'm lobbing them toward old Sol, wherever the debbil he at. Another Independence Day! My second one. (Four or five successive whooshing sounds,) I'm coming home. I'm coming home. To you, Ben. To Eisen, Morrell and Jonathan. You won't be able to say I don't do things with a flare. Or flares. (Laughter,) God, look at them stain the sky! Look at them smoke! Look at them burn away the reek of Asadi self-delusion! No, by God, we don't destroy every race we run across. Maybe the pygmies, maybe we did it to the pygmies -- but the Asadi, bless 'em, they're doing it to themselves -- they've been doing it to themselves for eons. And, God, look at that clean phosphorescent sky! I only wish I knew which direction Sol was in -- I'd like to see it. I'd like to see it like a shard of ice glittering in the center of those flaming cobwebs. Thomas Benedict speaking: last things We saw the flares and picked up Chaney, Moses Eisen was with me in the copter. We had come out extremely early on the morning of Day # in order to complete Chaney s customary supply drop and then to circle the Asadi clearing with the thought of making a naked-eye sighting of the cultural xenologist. Captain Eisen ordered this course of action when it became apparent that Chaney was not agoing to communicate with us of his own accord. The captain wished to appraise himself of Chaneys condition, perhaps by landing and talking with the man. He wanted him to return to base camp. If it had not been for these unusual circumstances, Chaney s flares might have gone off for no audience but the empty sky. As it was, we saw only the last two or three flares that he set off and had to reverse the direction of our copter to make the rendezvous. IF By the time we reached him Chaney was no longer the exhilarated adventurer that the last section of his monologue paints him -- he was a tired and sick man who did not seem to recognize us when we set down and who came aboard the copter bleary-eyed and unshaven, his arms draped across our shoulders. By removing his backpack we came into possession of the recorder he had used for the last two days and the eyebooks he had supposedly picked up in the Asadi temple. And that night I went back to the Asadi clearing alone in order to retrieve the remainder of his personal effects. Back at base camp, however, we committed Chaney at once to the Tsyuki and saw to it that he had a private room in the infirmary. During this time, as I mentioned earlier, he wrote The Ritual of Death and Designation. He claimed, in more than one of our conversations, that we had picked him up not more than four or Jive hundred yards from the pagoda he describes. He made this claim even though we were unable on several trips over this area to discover a clearing large enough to accommodate such a structure. Not once in all of our talks, however, did he ever claim that he had been inside the pagoda. Only in the confiscated tape does one encounter this bizarre notion: you have just read the edited transcript of the tape and can decide for yourself how much credence to give its various reports. One thing is certain -- the  eyebooks that Chaney brought out of the Synesthesia Wild with him do exist. And they had to come from somewhere. The eyebooks are a complete puzzle. They look exactly as Chaney describes them in the tape, but none of them work. The cassettes are seamless plastic, and the only really efficient way weve been able to get inside one is to break the bulb, the glass eyelet, and probe through the opening with oldfashioned watch tools. If the books were indeed fprogramed as Chaney reports in his tape, weve found nothing inside the cassettes on which these programs could have been inscribed and no energy source to power such a ra presentation of spectra patterns. Morrell has suggested that the programs exist in the molecular structure of the plastic casings themselves, but there is no ready way to confirm this. The eyebooks remain an enigma. As for Chaney, he apparently recovered. He would not discuss the tape that  once -- only once -- confronted him with, but he did talk about putting together a booklength account of his findings. The Asadi have to be described, Chaney once told me. They have to be described in detail. Its essential that we get every culture we find out here down on paper, down on tape, down on holographic storage cubes. The pen is mightier than the sword and paper is more durable than flesh. But Chaney didnt do his book. Three months he stayed with us, copying his notes, working in the base-camp library. Joining us only every sixth or seventh meal in the general mess. He kept to himself, as isolated among us as he had been in the Asadi clearing. And he did a lot of thinking, a lot of somber, melancholy, fatalistic thinking. He did something else that few of us paid much attention to. He grew a beard and refused to have his hair cut. Later we understood why. One morning we could not find Egan Chaney anywhere in base camp. By evening he still had not returned. Eisensent me to Chaney s hut and told me to spend the night there. He told me to go through Chaney s belongings arid to see if I could determine his whereabouts either from an explicit note or a random scrawl. '# dont think hell be back, the captain said -- and the captain was right. He was wrong about the note, though. I found nothing but battered notebooks in his book-littered cubicle. And though I read through all of these that night, I found no farewell note. It was not until I checked my mail box the next day that I found what Eisen had told me to look for. I checked the box merely out of habit -- I knew there had been no probeship deliveries. Perhaps  was looking for a memo from one of the base campers. And I found the note from Chaney. The only comfort it gave me was the comfort of knowing that my friend had not decided to commit suicide and that he had successfully fought off a subtle but steadily encroaching madness. (Eisen read this last sentence in rough draft and took exception to it:  Now you re dead wrong, Ben. Chaney not only succumbed to his madness but he committed suicide as well -- a slow suicide, but suicide nevertheless.  The note expressed a peculiar sort of optimism, I think, and if you dont see this slender affirmative thread when you first read through the note, go back and read the damn thing again. Because even if Chaney did commit suicide he died for something he believed in. I'm going back to the Asadi clearing, Ben. But don't come after me -- I won't let you bring me back. I've reached a perfect accommodation with myself. Probably I'll die. Without the supply drops I'm sure I will. But I belong among the Asadi, not as an outcast and not as a chieftain -- but as one of the even though that throng is stupid, even though it persists in its self-developed immunity to instruction. I'm one of them. Like The Bachelor, I'm a great slow moth. A tiger-moth. And the flame I choose to pursue and die in is the same hame that slowly consumes every one of the Asadi. Good health to you, Egan A note from Moses Eisen: Because of Egan Chaney's defection to the Synesthesia Wild and Thomas Benedict's lucid compilation of Chaney's notes, the Academy of Cultural Xenologists bestowed upon Benedict rather than Chaney the Oliver Bow Aurm Frasier Memorial Fillet. Though we do not forget the dead, we bury them. It is for the living that honors were made.  IF first walked on Mars the probe was launched from the moon for Pluto. Five years later the first pictures were transmitted as the orbiting probe trained its cameras on the planet's surface. The transmission quality was poor; but even so, certain features of the photographs were productive of great anguish as old theories fell to shards and were replaced by puzzlement, questions with no hint of answers. The pictures seemed to say that the planet had a smooth, almost polished surface, without a single geographic feature to break the smoothness of it. Except that at certain places, equidistant from one another along the equator, were tiny dotS" that would have been taken for transmission noise if they had not appeared consistently. Too, the dots still persisted when some of the noise was eliminated. So it seemed they must be small geographic features or shadows cast by geographic features, although at Pluto's distance from the sun shadows would be suspect. The other data did nothing to lessen the anguish. The planet was smaller than supposed, less than a thousand miles in diameter, and its density worked out to # grams per cubic centimeter rather than the unrealistic figure of # grams, previously supposed. This meant several things. It meant that somewhere out there, perhaps something more than seven planet of the solar system swung in orbit, for no planet the size and mass of Pluto could explain the eccentricities in the orbits of Uranus and Neptune. The calculation of Pluto's mass, now proved inaccurate, had been based on the measurement of those eccentricities and it must be admitted now that something else must account for them. Beyond that, Pluto was most strange -- a smooth planet, featureless except for the evenly spaced dots. The smoothness certainly could notbe explained by a non-turbulent atmosphere, for surely Pluto had to be too small and cold to hold an atmosphere. A surface of ice, men wondered, the frozen remnants of a one-time, momentary atmosphere? But for a number of reasons that didn't seem right, either. Metal, perhaps, but if the planet were of solid metal the density should be far greater. The men on Earth consoled themselves. In five more years the probe would come back to Earth, carrying with it the films that it had takert and from them, the actual films and not the low-quality tranmissions, perhaps much that was hazy now might become understandable. The probe swung in its measured orbits and sent back more pictures, although they were little help, for the quality still was poor. Then it fired the automatic sequence that would head it back to Earth, and its beeping signals from far out in space said it was headed home on a true and steady course. Something happened. The IF beeping stopped and there was a silence. Moon base waited. It might start up again. The silence might indicate only a momentary malfunction and the signals might start again. But they never did. miles from the sun, some mishap had befallen the homing probe. It was never heard again -- it was lost forever. There was no sense in sending out another probe until a day when technical advances could assure better pictures. The technical advances would have to be significant -- small refinements would do little good. The second and third manned expeditions went to Marsnd came home again, bringing back, among many other things, evidence that primitive forms of life existed there, which settled once for all the old, dark suspicion that life might be an aberration to be found only on the Earth. For with life on two planets in the same solar system there could no longer be any doubt that life was a common factor in the universe. The fourth expedition went out, landed and did not come back again and now there was on Mars a piece of ground that was. forever Earth. The fifth expedition was sent out even while the Earth still paid tribute to those four men who had died so far from home. Now that life had been found on another world, now that it was apparent that another planet at one time hacfbeld seas and rivers and an atmosphere that had been an approximation of Earth's own atmosphere, now that we knew we no longer were alone in the universe, the public interest and support of space travel revived. Scientists, remembering (never having, in fact, forgotten, for it had gnawed steadily at their minds) the puzzlement of the Pluto probe, began to plan a manned Pluto expedition, as there was still no sense in sending an instrumented probe. from the Moon Base, I was a member of the expedition. I went along as a geologist -- the last thing a Pluto expedition needed. There were three of us and any psychologist will tell you that three is a number that is most unfortunate. Two gang up on one or ignore one and there is always competition to be one of the gang of two. No one wants to stand alone with the other two against him. But it didn't work that way with u. We got along all right, although there were times when it was rough going. The five years that the probe took to arrive at Pluto was cut by more than half, not only because of improved rocket capability, but because a manned craft could pile on velocity that couldn't be programed -- or at least safely programed -- into a probe. But a bit more than two years is a long time to be cooped up in a tin can rocketing along in emptiness. Maybe it wouldn't be so bad if you had some sense of speed, of really getting somewhere -- but you haven't. You just hang there in space. The three of us? Well, I am Howard Hunt and the other two were Orson Gates, a chemist, and Tyler Hampton, an engineer. As I say, we got along fine. We played chess tournaments -- yeah, three men in a tournament and it was' all right because none of us knew chess. If we had been any good I suppose we would have been at one another's throats. We dreamed up dirty ditties and were so pleased with our accomplishments that we'd spend hours singing them and none of us could sing. We did a lot of other futile things -- by now you should be getting the idea. There were some rather serious scientific experiments and observations we were supposed to make, but all of us figured that our first and biggest job was to manage to stay sane. When we neared Pluto we dropped the fooling around and spent much time peering through the scope, arguing and speculating about what we saw. Not that there was much to see. The planet resembled nothing quite as much as a were no mountains, no valleys, no craters -- nothing marred, the smoothness of the surface. The dots were there, of course. We could make out seven groups of them, all positioned along the equatorial belt. And in close up they were not simply dots. They were structures of some kind. We landed finally, near a group of them. The landing was a little harder than we had figured it would be. The planetary surface was hard -- there was no give to it. But we stayed right-side up and we didn't break a thing. describe Pluto and it's a hard thing to put into words. You can say that it is smooth and that it's dark -- it's dark even in broad daylight. The sun, at that distance, is not niuch more than a slightly brighter star. You don't have daylight on Pluto -- you have starlight and it doesn't make much difference whether you're facing the sun or not. The planet is airless, of course, and waterless and cold. But cold, as far as human sensation is concerned, is a relative thing. Once the temperature gets down to a hundred Kelvin it doesn't much IF matter how much colder it becomes. Especially when you're wearing life support. Without a suit containing life support you'd last only a few seconds, if that long, on a place like Pluto. I've never figured out which would kill you first -- cold or internal pressure. Would you freeze -- or explode before you froze.? So Pluto is dark, airless, cold and smooth. Those are the externals only. You stand there and look at the sun and realize how far away you are. You know you are standing at the edge of the solar system, that just out there, a little way beyond, you'd be clear outside the system. Which dsn't really have to be true, of course. You know about the tenth planet. Even if it's theory, it's supposed to be out of circling comets that technically are a part of the solar system, although they're so far out no one ever thinks of them. You could say to yourself this really is not the edge -- the hypothetical tenth planet and the comets still are out there. But this is intellectualization; you're telling yourself something that your mind says may be true, but your gut denies. For hundreds of years Pluto hasjen the last outpost and this, by God, is Pluto and you're farther away from home than man has ever been before and you feel it. You don't belong to anything any more. You're in the back alley, and the bright and happy streets are so far away that you know you'll never find them. It isn't homesickness that you feel. It's more like never having had a home. Of never having belonged anywhere. You get over it, of course -- or come to live with it. So we came down out of the ship after we had landed and stood upon the surface. The first thing that struck us -- other than the sense of lostness that at once grabbed all of us -- was that the horizon was too near, much nearer than on the Moon. We felt at once that we stood on a small world. We noticed that horizon's nearness even before we noticed the buildings that the probe had photographed as dots and that we had dropped down to investigate. Perhaps buildings is not the right word -- structures probably would be better. Buildings are enclosures and these were not enclosures. They were domes someone had set out to build and hadn't had time to finish. The basic underlying framework had been erected and then the work had stopped. Riblike arcs curved up from the surface, and met overhead. Struts and braces held the frarhes solid, but that was as far as the construction had gone. There were three of them, one larger than the other two. The frames were not quite as sitnple as I may have made them seem. Tied into the ribs and struts and braces were a number of other structural units that seemed to have no purpose and make no sense at all. We tried to make sense out of them and out of the scooped-out hollows that had been gouged out of the planetary surface within the confines of each construct -- they had no floors and seemed fastened to the surface of the planet. The hollows were circular, some six feet across and three feet deep, and to me they looked like nothing quite as much as indentations made in a container of ice cream by a scoop. Abput this time Tyler began to have some thoughts about the surface. Tyler is an engineer and should have had his thoughts immediately -- and so should the rest of us -- but the first hour or so outside the ship had been considerably confusing. We had worn our suits in training, of course, and had done some walking around in them, but Pluto seemed to have even less gravity than had been calculated and we had had to get used to it before we could be reasonably comfortable. Nor had anything else been exactly as we had anticipated. "This surface," Tyler said to me. "There is something wrong with it." "We knew it was smooth," said Orson. "The pictures showed that. Coming in, we could see it for ourselves." "This smooth?" Tyler asked. "This even?" He turned to me. "It isn't geologically possible. Would you say it is?" "I would think not," T said. "If there had been any upheaval at all this floor would be rugged. There can't have been any erosion -- anything to level it down. Micrometeorite impacts, maybe, but not too many of them. We're too far out for meteorites of any size. And while micrometeorites might pit the surface there would be no leveling process." T yler let himself down on his knees rather awkwardly. He brushed a hand across the surface. The seeing was not too good, but you could see that there was dust, a thin layer of dust, a powdering. "Shine a light down here," said Tyler. Orson aimed his light at the spot. Some of the gray ,dust still clung where Tyler had wiped his hand, but there were streaks where the darker surface showed through. "Space dust," said Tyler. Orson said, "There should be damn little of it." "True," said Tyler. "But over IF accumulate. It couldn't be erosion dust, could it?" "Nothing to cause erosion," I said. "This must be as close to a dead planet as you ever get. Not enough gravity to hold any of the gases -- if there ever were gases. At one time there must have been, but they've all gone -- they went early. No atmosphere, no water. I doubt there ever was any accumulation. A molecule wouldn't hang around for long." "But space dust would?" "Maybe. Some sort of electrostatic attraction, maybe." Tyler scrubbed the little patch of surface again with his gloved hand, removing more of the dust, with more of the darker surface showing through. "Have we got a drill?" he asked. "A specimen drill." "I have one in my kit," said Orson. He took it out and handed it to Tyler. Tyler positioned the bit against the surface, pressed the button. In the light of the torch you could see the bit spinning. Tyler put more weight on the drill. "It's harder than a bitch," he said. The bit began to bite. A small pile of fragments built up around the hole. The surface was hard, no doubt of that. The bit didn't go too deep and the pile of fragments was small. Tyler gave up. He lifted out the bit and snubbed off the motor. "Enough for analysis?" he asked. "Should be," said Orson. He took the bit from Tyler and handed him a small specimen bag. Tyler laid the open mouth of the bag on the surface and brushed the fragments into it. "Now we'll know," he said. "Now we will know something." A couple of hours later, back in the ship, we knew. "I have it," Orson said, "but I don't believe it." "Metal?" asked Tyler. "Sure, metal. But not the kind you have in mind. It's steel." "Steel?" I said, horrified. "It can't be. Steel's no natural metal. It's tnanufactured." "Iron," said Orson. "Nickel. Molybdenum, vanadium, chromium. That works out to steeL I don't know as much about steel as I should. But it's steel -- a good steel. Corrosion resistant, tough, strong." "Maybe just the platform for the structures," I said. "Maybe a pad of steel to support them. We took the specimen close to one of them." "Let's find out," said Tyler. We opened up the garage and ran down the ramp and got out the buggy. Before we left we turned off the television camera. By this time Moon Base would have seen all they needed to see and if they wanted more they could ask for it. We had given them a report on everything we had found -- all except the steel surface and the three of us agreed that until we knew more about that we would not say anything. It would be a while in any case until we got an answer from them. The time lag to Earth was about sixty hours each way. We went out ten miles and took a boring sample and came back, following the thin tracks the buggy made in the dust, taking samples every mile. We got the answer that I think all of us expected we would get, but couldn't bring ourselves to talk about. The samples all were steel. It didn't seem possible, of course, and it took us a while to digest the fact, but finally we admitted that on the basis of best evidence Pluto was no planet, but a fabricated metal ball, small-planet size. But Godawful big for anyone to build. Anyone? T hat was the question that now haunted us. Who had built it? Perhaps more important -- why had they built it? For some purpose, surely, but why, once that purpose had been fulfilled (if, in fact, it had been fulfilled) had Pluto been left out here at the solar system's rim? "No one from the system," Tyler said. "There's no one but us. Mars has life, of course, but primitive life. It got a start there and hung on and that was all. Venus is too hot. Mercury is too close to the sun. The big gas planets? Maybe, but not the kind of life that would build a thing like this. It had to be something from outside." "How about the fifth planet?" suggested Orson. "There probably never was a fifth planet," I said. "The material for it may have been there, but the planet never formed. By all the rules of celestial mechanics there should have been a planet between Mars and Jupiter, but something went haywire." "The tenth planet, then," said Orson. "No one is really positive there is a tenth," said Tyler. "Yeah, you're right," said Orson. "Even if there were it would be a poor bet for life, let alone intelligence." "So that leaves us with outsiders," said Tyler. "And a long time ago," said Orson. "Why do you say that?" "The dust. There isn't much dust in the universe." "And no one knows what it is. There is the dirty ice theory." "I see what you're getting at. But it needn't be ice. Nor graphite nor IF any of the other things that have been -- "  "You mean it's that stuff out there." "It could be. What do you think, Howard?" "I can't be sure," I said, "The only thing I know is that it couldn't be erosive." Before we went to sleep we tried to fix up a report to beam back to Moon Base, but anything we put together sounded too silly and unbelievable. So we gave up. We'd have to tell them some time, but we could wait. When we awoke we had a bite to eat, then got into our suits and went out to look ovef the structures. They still didn't make much sense, especially all the crazy contraptions that were fastened on the ribs and struts and braces. Nor did the scooped-out hollows. "If they were only up on legs," said Orson, "they could be used as chairs." "But not very comfortable," said Tyler. "If you tilted .them a bit," said Orson. But that didn't figure either. They would still be uncomfortable. I wondered why he thought of them as chairs. They didn't look like any chairs to me. We pottered around a lot, not getting anywhere. We looked the structures over inch by inch, wondering all the while if there was something we had missed. But there didn't seem to be. Now comes the funny part of it. I don't know why we did it -- out of sheer desperation, maybe. But failing to find any clues, we got down on our hands and knees, dusting at the surface with our hands. What we hoped to find, I don't know. It was slow going and it was a dirty business, with the dust tending to stick to us. "If we'd only brought some brooms along," said Orson. But we had no brooms. Who in his right mind would have thought we would want to sweep a planet? what appeared to be a manufactured planet and we had some stupid structures for which we could deduce not a single reason. We had come a long ways and we had been expected to make some tremendous discovery once we landed. We had made a discovery, all right, but it didn't mean a thing. We finally gave up with the sweeping business and stood there, scuffing our feet and wondering what to do next when Tyler suddenly let out a yell and pointed at a place on the surface where his boots had kicked away the dust. We all bent to look at what he had found. We saw three holes in the surface, each an inch or so across and some three inches deep, placed in a triangle and close together. Tyler got down on his hands and knees and shone his light down into the holes, each one of them in turn. Finally he stood up. "I don't know," he said. "They could maybe be a lock of some sort. Like a combination. There are little notches on the sides, down at the bottom of them. If you moved those notches just right something might happen. "Might blow ourselves up, maybe," said Orson. "Do it wrong and bang!" "I don't think so," said Tyler. "I don't think it's anything like that. I don't say it's a lock, either. But I don't think it's a bomb. Why should they boobytrap a thing like this?" "You can't tell what they might have done," I said. "We don't know what kind of things they were or why they were here." Tyler didn't answer. He got down again and began carefully dusting the surface, shining his light on it while he dusted. We didn't have anything else to do, so helped him. It was Orson who found it this time -- a hairline crack you had to hold your face down close to the surface to see. Having found it, we did some more dusting and worried it out. The hairline described a circle and the three holes were set inside and to one edge of it. The circle was three feet or so in diameter. "Either of you guys good at picking locks?" asked Tyler. Neither of us were. "It's got to be a hatch of some sort," Orson said. "This metal ball we're standing on has to be a hollow ball. If it weren't its mass would be greater than it is." "And no one," I said, "would be insane enough to build a solid ball. It would take too much metal and too much energy to move." "You're sure that it was moved?" asked Orson. "It had to be," I told him. "It wasn't built in this system. No one here could have built it." Tyler had pulled a screwdriver out of his toolkit and was poking into the hole with it. "Wait a minute," said Orson. "I just thought of something." He nudged Tyler to one side, reached down and inserted three fingers into the holes and pulled. The circular section rose smoothly on its hinges. Wedged into the area beneath the door were objects that looked like the rolls of paper you buy to wrap up Christmas presents. Bigger than rolls of paper, though. Six inches or so across. IF I got hold of one of them and that first one was not easy to grip, for they were packed in tightly. But I managed with much puffing and grunting to pull it out. It was heavy and a good four feet in length. Once we got one out. the other rolls were easier to lift. We pulled out three more and headed for the ship. But before we left I held the remaining rolls over to one side, to keep them from tilting, while Orson shone his light down into the hole. We had half expected to find a screen or something under the rolls, with the hole extending on down into a cavity that might have been used as living quarters or a workroom. But the hole ended in machined metal. We could see the grooves left by the drill or die that had bored the hole. That hole had just one purpose, to store the rolls we had found inside it. B ack in the ship we had to wait a while for the rolls to pick up some heat before we could handle them. Even so we had to wear gloves when we began to unroll them. Now, seeing them in good light, we realized that they were made up of many sheets rolled up together. The sheets seemed to be made of some sort of extremely thin metal or tough plastic. They were stiff from the cold and we spread them out on our lone table and weighed them down to hold them flat. On the first sheet were diagrams of some sort, drawings and what might have been specifications written into the diagrams and along the margins. The specifications, of course, meant nothing to us (although later some were puzzled out and mathematicians and chemists were able to figure out some of the formulas and equations). "Blueprints,'' said Tyler. "This whole business was an engineering job." "If that's the case," said Orson, "those strange things fastened to the structural frames could be mounts to hold engineering instruments." "Could be," said Tyler. "Maybe the instruments are stored in some other holes like the one where we found the blueprints," I suggested. "I don't think so," said Tyler. "They would have taken the instruments with them when they left." "Why didn't they take the blueprints, too?" "The instruments would have been worthwhile to take. They could be used on another job. But the blueprints couldn't. And there may have been many sets of prints and spec sheets. These we have may be only one of many sets of duplicates. There would have been a set of master prints and those they might have taken with them when they left." "What I don't understand," I said, "is what they could have been building out here. What kind of construction? And why here? I suppose we could think of Pluto as a massive construction shack, but why exactly here? With all the galaxy to pick from, why this particular spot?" "You ask too many questions all at once," Orson told me. "Let's look," said Tyler. "Maybe we'll find out." He peeled the first sheet off the top and let it drop to the floor. It snapped back to the rolled-up position. The second sheet told us nothing, nor did the third or fourth. Then came the fifth sheet. "Now, here is something," said Tyler. We leaned close to look. "It's the solar system," Orson said. i counted rapidly. "Nine planets." "Where's the tenth?" asked Orson. "There should be a tenth." "Something's wrong," said Tyler. "I don't know what it is." I spotted it. "There's a planet between Mars and Jupiter." "That means there is no Pluto shown," said Orson. "Of course noU" said Tyler. "Pluto never was a planet." "Then this means there once actually was a planet between Mars and Jupiter," said Orson. "Not necessarily," Tyler told him. "It may only mean there was supposed to be." "What do you mean?" "They bungled the job," said Tyler. "They did a sloppy piece of engineering." "You're insane!" I shouted at him. "Your blind spot is showing, Howard. According to what we think, perhaps it is insane. According to the theories our physicists have worked out. There is a cloud of dust and gas and the cloud contracts to form a protostar. Our scientists have invoked a pretty set of physical laws to calculate what happens. Physical laws that were automatic -- since no one would be mad enough to postulate a gang of cosmic engineers who went about the universe building solar systems." "But the tenth planet," persisted Orson. "There has to be a tenth planet. A big, massive -- " "They messed up the projected fifth planet," Tyler said. "God knows what else they messed up. Venus, maybe. Venus shouldn't be IF the kind of planet it is. It should be another Earth, perhaps a slightly warmer Earth, but not the hellhole it is. And Mars. They loused that up, too. Life started there, but it never had a chance. It hung on and that was all. And Jupiter, Jupiter is a monstrosity -- " "You thihk the only reason for a planet's existence is its capability of supporting life?" "I don't know, of course. But it should be in the specs. Three planets that could have been lifebearing and of these only one was successful." "Then," said Orson, "there could be a tenth planet. One that wasn't even planned." Tyler wrapped his fist against the sheet. "With a gang of clowns like this anything could happen." He jerked away the sheet and tossed it to the floor. "There!" he cried. "Look here." We crowded in and looked. It was a cross section, or appeared to be a cross section, of a planet. "A central core," said Tyler. "An atmosphere -- " "Earth?" "Could be. Could be Mars or Venus." The sheet was covered with what could have been spec notations. "It doesn't look quite right," I protested. "It wouldn't if it were Mars or Venus. And how sure are you of Earth?" "Not sure at all," I said. He jerked away the sheet to reveal another one. We puzzled over it. "Atmospheric profile," I guessed half-heartedly. "These are just general specs," said Tyler. "The details will be in some of the other rolls. We have a lot of them out there." I tried to envision it. A construction shack set down in a cloud of dust and gas. Engineers who may have worked for millennia to put together star and planets, to key into them certain factors that still later. Tyler said they had bungled and perhaps they had. But maybe not with Venus. Maybe Venus had been built to different specifications. Maybe it had been designed to be years from now, when humanity might well be gone from Earth, a new life and a new intelligence would rise on Venus. Maybe not with Venus, maybe with none of the others, either. We could not pretend to know. Tyler was still going through the sheets. "Look here," he was yelling. "Look here -- the bunglers -- "  Though her life was unacknowledged, it remained hers to save I S HE walked quietly through the deserted dawn streets of Axminster and the black mutated Alsatian padded with equal silence at her heels. Despite the early September chill she was warm, too warm in her light coat, and was prespiring nervously as she hurried close to the concrete walls. She paused at each corner, glancing to left and right, then running soundlessly across the exposed areas, the Alsatian following with slow bounds. She looked about fifteen years old -- it was hardly possible that she was that age, but she might have been a hundred and thirtyfour or a hundred and seventy... As she passed the gaunt face of the Creche she saw the figure of a nurse in one of the windows, silhouetted against the lighted room. She envied the nurse -- envied her job, her freedom from fear, her security -- the nurse, she thought, is one of the Establishment and therefore safe. She walked on. Later she paused at the spacious entrance to a large building that towered to the crimson-streaked gray sky and, without much hope, tried the wide glass doors. They were, of course, locked. Above them a large sign read: transfer IF exhorted her to take a friend and at this she directed a nervous smile, one shift from terror. She moved away and, a few yards up the street, slipped down a narrow passage, dark and featureless except for the dim outline of a small window in the tall walls. She regarded this for a moment, gauging the height. "Wait here," she whispered. The dog sat back on it haunches, tongue lolling. She jumped, caught the sill, hung for a moment one-handed as she pushed at the glass. She felt it yield and pulled herself up, rocked forward on her wrists and butted the hinged window open. She swung her legs over the edge and sat for a moment flashing her torch around the interior. Satisfied, she dropped through, landing lightly on her feet, and played the beam around the large room in which she found herself. "Who's there?" The question was harsh and metallic. "Is that you, Man Ewell? Come and talk to me for a moment, will you? I'm bored. These lazy bastards have all gone comatose." The girl did not reply. Holding her breath, she pointed the torch at the source of the voice. The opposite wall was completely taken up by a stack of boxes, each a cube of about one foot, enameled black and with a grille in the side facing her. There must have been a thousand of them and she knew that behind the wall of boxes were another thousand -- and another and another... The voice was issuing from the right-hand side of the stack. Querulous, it spoke again. "Are you there? Are you there?" Another voice replied amid a communal rasping as the other boxes roused themselves. "There's nobody there. Be quiet, will you? I was almost asleep. God, I had almost made it for the first time. Then you had to start shouting." "I tell you I heard somebody. I can hear him now. Breathing." "Imagination. When you've been in a box as long as I have you'll learn to distinguish. It's difficult at first. I'll grant you." This was another box, down toward the lefthand bottom corner of the stack -- the voice was more sympathetic. "Sorry -- " The first speaker still sounded doubtful, but becariie silent. The various mutterings ceased and the room was quiet again. The girl tiptoed across it to a large card index set in the wall. She quickly ran her finger down the exposed edges of the cards, paused and extracted one. She read the punched information carefully, then pocketed the card and mov back to the window. She turned, played the torch over the boxes once more, then snapped out the light and climbed to the sill. She dropped lightly to the ground outside -- the Alsatian approached eagerly to lick her hand. Trembling, she brushed the hair from her face. Her hand came away wet with tears.  the tall android entered the Transfer Center. The sound of traffic outside died, as the door swung shut. " 'Morning, Man Ewell." Ewell paused at the reception desk. "Where's the secretary?" "Late as usual. I'm standing in for a moment until she arrives." The android sighed. "I'll get Johnson to have a word with her. How many cases have I got this morning?" "Ten -- sir." The polite address stuck in James' gullet -- he detested having an android as a superior. Not that Ewell wasn't good at his job. James conceded that in the few days since the new Transfer Surgeon arrived at Axminster Center he had already proved his worth. Every operation had been completely successful. But Ewell would not confine his sphere of actvity to the operating theater. The man had a habit of popping up like a genie at unexpected moments -- James would find him at his shoulder as he IF lolled unsuspecting in his chair, reading the paper. The android seemed to be everywhere, reorganizing, criticizing, issuing direc-tives. He was a worker. He had already looked in at the Creche this morning, James guessed. Such devotion to his patients was odd. "All reincorporations?" Ewell was asking. "Eight reincorps, two direct Transfers. A few disincorps, too." Ewell bit his lip thoughtfully. James's report accounted for all available hosts of the right age in the Creche. If an emergency turned up Ewell might have to use an android baby. He turned away and made for the corridor. "Let me know when the sec gets here, will you?" he called over his shoulder, and Linton James made a face at the broad, retreating back. As soon as the surgeon was out of sight, the glass entrance door swung open and the receptionist entered, looking flustered. She hurried across to the desk. "Is Man Ewell hfere yet?" James eyed her appreciatively before answering. In her haste she had gained an attractive flush and she was looking up at him anxiously, in sharp contrast to her normal sophisticated disinterest. He savored the moment. "He's here," he replied at last. "HI put in a good word for you if you like." The girl was not at all fooled by this. She sniffed, brushed past him and sat down at the desk, exposing a length of thigh. Linton James hung around, eyeing her covertly, weighing his chances. She was eighteen physical years old, two years younger than himself. Her last Transfer had been a fortunate one -- she had a delectable figure and face. But she had ambitions. She was studying for a Preferred Trade and considered herself above him. He sighed and turned away, intending to go to his small office at the end of the corridor, when his attention was caught by the entrance door's swinging open again. A young girl came in hesitantly, a carrier dog at her heels. She stood in the center of the entrance hall, looking about uncertainly, saw James watching and approached him with a nervous smilp. He ran a hand over his hair and smiled back. "May I help you?" he asked. Behind him the receptionist sniffed again. The girl looked scared. She was about fifteen physical years old. Her eyes were large, blue and strangely innocent. As he looked at her he felt a pulse begin to beat thickly in his throat. She wore a light coat, open at the front to afford a glimpse of delicious young breasts maturing beneath a tight dress. Staring at him like a terrified leveret she asked; "Is this the Transfer Center?" "It is," replied James, still smiling. "This is where I can contract to take Friends?" "That's right." She could read, couldn't she? Obvjously she was a stranger in these parts. He wondered if she wanted to be shown around the town. "Oh, good. I want to take two Friends, please." She withdrew a slip of paper from the pocket of her coat and James had the undefinable notion that she was somehow acting a part. He glanced at the receptionist, who seemed intent on reading something, head bent. "Right," said James briskly. "I can deal with that for you. Just fill in this form and I'll bring you a couple of Friends from the Habitation Room." He took a sheet of paper from the stack on the counter and placed it before her. He handed her a pen, standing close. Her head was level with his shoulder. His hip brushed against her. JJe had a powerful urge to put his arm around her. H e had been in trouble before. Two physical lives ago, at the age of twenty, he had given way to his desires in the public park one night. By the dark walls of the an dent Minster he had come across a lone woman, a criminal convicted on a theft charge and with only one year to go before Total Death. She had confided this to him as they leaned against the wall together, he listening sympathetically while his mind assessed the possibilities. But he had miscalculated and the woman had begun to scream when he made his rough, uncontrolled advances. So he had run and lived in terror for two days, watching the indicator boards every minute in fear that his name would appear as a wanted man. No doubt the woman had reported the incident -- herself bitter, she had wanted to take someone with her to the Euthanasia Room. But the police had been unable to track him down. The night had been dark. They had not exchanged indentities -- her description had been incomplete. And, possibly, the police had not had much sympathy for her. So he had gotten away with it. He had been more careful since. The girl was regarding him with dismay, her face close to his.  "Can't I choose my own Friends?" she queried. "You have someone specific you wish to take?" "Yes." She consulted the slip she had brought. "A-#-AX and A#AX, please." "Anything to oblige." He dragged his eyes away from hers. "Just fill in this form," he instructed. "I'll go and get the Friends." He took the slip of paper from her, contriving to touch her hand lightly at the same time, then made his way to the Habitation Room. This was situated at the exIF treme end of the corridor -- it was a vast rectangular chamber, something like a library filled by parallel stacks of Friends. The Conversationalist sat among the boxes, trying to interest the Friends in history. James paused in the doorway. "The Compulsory Transfer Act was passed in the year #," the man was saying, "with the dual object of reducing the runaway birthrate and preventing the wastage of active, valuable minds through death. This law might fairly be said to have changed the face of civilization." "I'lr say," rasped one of the Friends. "If not for that law I'd have a physical body now -- instead of being in this damned box!" The  The Act of # guaranteed virtually everyone then alive immortality. It specified that on hisher fiftieth birthday every person of Earth had to attend a Transfer Center, where hisher brain was removed and placed into the craniuiii of a six-monthold child. The person then went through another childhood to maturity and the process was repeated at his or her fiftieth birthday -- injiniturrh So successful was the Act at curbing the human birthrate that by # it became necessary to introduce what were euphemistically called Friendship boxes -- metal containers filled with nutrient fluid in which a brain was placed pending availability of a host body. In order to make the wait more pleasant the boxes were equipped with audio pickups and vocal chords. By the year # it was decided to decrease the active population (while birthrate had declined, the number of people had not) by reducing the age for Compulsory Transfer to #. Simultaneously came about the Preferred Trade concept, which made it unConversationalist was frequently subjected to such heckling. James grinned, leaning against the door jamb. "Except for the Act you'd have been dead this last hundred and fifty years." pointed out the Conversationalist. He leaned forward to confirm this. "A-#-AX," he read from the metal plate above the Friend's grille. "So you had your first Transfer about #. You've probably had four physical bodies by now, a total of one hundered and sixty years active life. And just a total of twenty years Friendship in a box at various times. That's not bad. We can't help the Waiting List, you know. And Axminster is lucky. In some cities the list is over ten years long." necessary for essential personnel," such as government officials and civil servants, to spend any time in a Friendship box -- at age # they were transferred into a host body. By # old heads were firmly in the saddle and the world was solidly in the grip of the System. Almost no one remembered what a young person was. Androids were develops to serve as host bodies. Handsome, healthy and intelligent, grown from the best genetic material available, they were nevertheless discriminated against because of certain skin discolorations and most people continued to prefer waiting periods in Friendship boxes. The human birthrate, however, continued to drop -- and Friends in boxes wielded votes. The Total Death Act -- which prescribed termination of all persons convicted of any offense from overtime parking up -- was passed in # to shorten Friendship box waiting period for others. The events in this story took place in the year #. "Thanks," said someone sarcastically. "That makes me feel good. I've only got eighteen months to do in this box." Linton James coughed. "Excuse me," he said. "I've come to collect a couple of Friends." He read the numbers out to the Conversationalist. The man nodded and James began to examine the boxes, which were in approximate numerical order, while the history lesson continued. Soon he found the two he wanted. "I've got them," he said. He took them down and checked the numbers off with the Conversationalist. Harsh outcries rose from several Friends as they heard the numbers. "Wait a moment!" someone yelled. "Those two only came in yesterday. How come they've found Companions already? What about me? I've been in this room for three years!" . "I can't help that." James addressed the box at the foot of the stack. "Contracting for Friends by active persons is entirely voluntary. A girl came in just now and ask for these two Friends. They're probably acquaintances of hers. If she's good enough to contract to look after a Friend she can have anyone she likes." The Conversationalist spoke up. "One thing I'd like to ask you people," he said. "During your last physical life -- how many of you took the responsibility of contracting to look after a Friend?" An abashed muttering came from the boxes. "You see what I mean?" the Conversationalist asked triumphantly. "If you wouldn't take a Friend when you could -- why should anyone take you?" Several boxes began to speak at once -- loudly. James left the room. He didn't envy the Conversationalist his job. For several hours each day the man talked to the boxes,reasoning with them, teaching them, listening to their complaints...  the Habitation Room as he reached the entrance hall. The girl was bending over, her back to him, patting the carrier dog on the head and talking to it -- carrier dogs were extremely intelligent and able to comprehend simple human speech. James could see the girl's thighs below the short skirt almost to her buttocks. He paused for a moment, involuntarily touching his tongue to his lips, then walked across to her. " Your Friends," he said, placing the two boxes on the floor. "Oh, thank you." She handed him the form and he glanced at it briefly, checking her name with that on the Code Card she offered. You had to be careful over that sort of thing. People had been known to put false name and number on a form, thereby gaining possession of a Friend without revealing their true identities. The claimant would IF aniii. Latest U.S. Government tests of all cigarettes show True is lower in both tar and nicotine than # of all oth cigarettes sold. Think about it. Shouldn't your next cigarette be True? Regular and Menthol: I # mg. "tar',' # mg. nicotine, Lorillard # Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined That Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health. cigarettes show True is lower in both tar and nicotine than all other menthols sold. Think about it. Shouldn't your next cigarette be True? then disappear, resuming his or her correct identity in the city. The Friend, possibly an old enemy of the impostor, might also disappear for a while -- in many cases to reappear later on a garbage dump, smashed and Totally Dead. But this girl was genuine enough. Mary Atkinson. He smiled at her reassuringly -- she still seemed nervous. "They're all yours," he said. "Can I help you out with them?" "I've brought the dog." "No trouble." The pulse was beating again -- his palms were moist. He glanced at the address on the form. "Cliff Cottage, Branscombe. That's well out in the country. Tell you what -- " he was speaking fast, eagerly -- "I'll run you there in my car. No trouble." He held her gaze -- desire fluttered at the pit of his stomach. "It's quite all right." She was looking scared again. "I'll take the bus. Thank you very much, sir -- " #.The eyes were intensely blue. James felt powerful, virile, masterful. A comer of his mind returned to the woman in the park. He had shown her. He had stifled her screaming with the palm of his hand. But he had never wanted anyone as much as he wanted this girl. What was it about her? She seemed virginal. An oddity. Almost an alien concept. Something one read about. "No trouble," he repeated, his mouth dry. "The car's outside." "Thank you very much," she said, "but I'd rather -- " She seized one of the boxes and the carrier dog took the other in his powerful jaws. With another brief, terrified glance at him she turned and almost ran for the door, the dog trotting behind her. James watched the two, watched the door after they had gone. You didn't get many girls like that. Usually women were hard, experienced, inaccessible. "My God." The cynical voice of the receptionist startled him out of his reverie. "I thought you were going to lay her on the spot. You'd better watch yourself, young Linton James. You're frustrated. You ought to grow up." He wheeled hiriously, hating her amused look, her thighs, the impossible longings she created in his mind and body. Then he recovered, eyeing her appraisingly. His standards had changed. She represented inferior goods, shop-soiled. He stared at her contemptuously and, to his surprise, she dropped her eyes. "She was very pretty," she murmured, "Physically a bit young -- mentally, too I thought. Just the type for you, really , Linton. I should look her up some time." Amazed and not knowing quite what to say -- he felt again inexperienced and unable to cope with the world around him -- Linton James returned to his office to dream of the young girl with the blue eyes. F ive minutes later he was still staring at the form in his hand. Once again he read it, turned it over, read the other side. He was unable to understand what he saw. The only certainty was that the girl had committed an offense. For some unknown reason she, in removing the two Friends, had laid herself open to criminal proceedings and imprisonment -- and consequently, when the date of her next Transfer came up in some twenty-five years, Total Death. The front of the form bore her name and address, which he had checked with her Code Card, and her number -- which he had not checked. There had not seemed to be any need. A-#-AX mary atkinson, The usual declaration and her signature followed: M. Atkinson. On the reverse of the form appeared the numbers of the two Friends she had taken with her. A-#-AX A-#-AX The same number appeared on both sides of the form. It was impossible. He had checked her name, which agreed with her personal Code Card. So the number to go with her name must have been correct. Yet he had also checked the numbers on the boxes with the back of the form filled in by her. How could a person be in two places at once? First, physically before him and signing a form -- and secondly. demonstrably in a Friendship box, as witness the number? It was some time before Linton James thought to check the Habitation Room. He entered quietly and made for the index racks. These contained the Code Cards handed in by people undergoing physical euthanasia before their minds were placed in Friendship boxes; the cards provided a cross-check with the boxes in the Habitation Room. He flipped through the cards, ignoring the cries of query from the stacked boxes were bored again. The Conversationalist was taking a break. Some of the cards had the folded forms clipped to them, indicating that the Friends they represented had been contracted for and removed from the room. Soon he found what he was looking for. He pulled out a card. That took care of one of the Friends. He searched further, but soon gave up, convinced. There was no card for Friend number A#-AX. There couldn't be, because that was the one the girl had shown him. She must previously have succeeded in removing it from the Habitation Room and had used it as identity to claim the Friends. Why? He thought about it for a while, sitting in his office. He kept IF returning to the same conclusion. The only reason the girl would use tfiat Code Card as identity was that she had no identity of her own. She didn't exist. Legally she was a nonentity. And Linton James thought he knew why. Substantial rewards existed for turning in a criminal and a nonentity had to -- by definition -- be a criminal. He folded the form and tucked it into his pocket. He would turn the girl in. He thought of her blue eyes, her unspoiled youthful air of innocence. Yes, he would turn her in. But first... bus service from the city to the outlaying districts was infrequent and Mary Atkinson stood for some time at the bus stop, the dog and the two black boxes at her feet. From time to time people hurrying along the pavement to their various duties about the city would step close to the boxes and the dog's upper lip would curl back and he would move closer, crouching over the Friends. After a while a short queue had built up -- a few people glanced curiously at the young girl standing at the stop, lost in thought, the dog and boxes at her feet. Mary was, in fact, trying hard not to cry and by this unusual exhibition of emotion draw attention to herself. She hardly dared to look at the boxes -- she knew that if she allowed her attention to dwell on them the tears would fall. In her misery she failed to notice the figure of Linton James, clad in a shapeless raincoat, tag on to the end of the queue. At last the hoverbus pulled up with a whistle of expended air. She picked up one of the Friends -- the dog took the other -- and both climbed on board. Mary inserted her Code Card into the ticket mechanism. The bus at this time was practically empty. She chose a seat in the rear, setting the boxes on the floor at her feet and calling the dog in close. He looked up at her from moist eyes, then settled under the seat. The bus started. A woman sat on the adjacent pair of seats, entrenched among packages, glanced at her, then leaned across. "Hello, there. Isn't it Woman Mary Atkinson?" Mary looked up, startled. "Oh -- Woman Biggs. Why, hello. Hello. You're leaving town early this morning." "I just had to pick up a few things." She looked at the floor beside Mary. "Hi there, dog. What's that you've got? Friends?" She regarded Mary curiously. "Yes." "Oh." the woman hesitated. "Who are they? Anyone I know?" Mary was silent. "Well -- now let me see." The woman stared at the boxes, her expression intent and amused like one taking part in a guessing game. "Let me see. You're from Branscombe. I don't know many people that far out of town. You keep pretty much to yourselves. But -- wait a minute -- a month ago I saw you in Sidford with two people. They must have been in their late thirties -- Why, you're crying, Mary. What's the matter?" Mary sniffed into her handkerchief. Woman Biggs stared at her with interest. "I haven't seen anyone cry for years. It's nice to know people have emotions left. I don't think I've cried since I was eighty-nine mental -- that was when Bob Secombe got Total Death on a driving charge. Do you remember Bob Secombe?" Mary shook her head dunly. "I thought everyone knew Bob Secombe. I hope I knew him better than most, though. Funny you never knew him." Mary made a supreme effort. She didn't want to talk about Bob Secombe. She gave her cheeks a final mopping and indicated the boxes. "These people looked after me during my last childhood," she said unsteadily. "They were very kind to me. One feels so helpless during childhood. It seemed the least I could do was to take them as Friends. The Waiting List for bodies is several years now. They -- " She nearly broke down again. "They went for physical euthanasia yesterday. I collected them this morning." "Oh. Very public-spirited of you. I'm sure." Woman Biggs regarded Mary with that special look of respectful dislike reserved for dogooders. "I hope you realize what you're taking on. Friends can be difficult -- always complaining. I know." Suddenly she chuckled, looking almost human. "I've been a bastard myself, during various Friendship periods. It's the inactivity that gets you. Ah, well. I'm thirty-four physical. I've got a clean record, so it's me for the box myself in six years' time. Comes to all of us. Mustn't grumble. May my next body be beautiful." With this cascade of platitudes she relapsed into silence, pulled out a portovee and stared at it avidly. Relieved, Mary turned away and looked out through the window. The concrete suburbs had given way to more open, agricultural land -- here and there huge machinery stalked the fields like stegasauri. She spoke quietly to the Friends. "Are you both all right?" "Fine," the answer came back. The dog started beneath her feet and whined softly. "Jason recognizes you," she murmured. Somehow this seemed important. She sat in silence then. The countryside gradually became more hilly, with occasional outcrops of trees on land too rough and stony for economical farming. Twenty IF minutes later the hoverbus hissed to a halt at a small village, a huddle of domes and rectangles between steep hillsides. Mary disembarked. With Jason trotting behind she made her way across the small forecourt and climbed into her car, lifting the Friends carefully to the back seat. The dog jumped in beside her, the door closed and she moved off, turning south down the narrow lane signposted branscombe. Standing in the shadow of the bus, Linton James watched the receding hovercar in some annoyance. He hadn't bargained for Mary's having her own transportation. He had no alternative but to follow on foot. M ary drove slowly through Branscombe, a ghost village of ancient stone cottages, relics of the days before pollution had diminished the fishing and tourist industries. The village, once thriving, now had a population of some thirty dropouts from urban life who lived by marketing vegetables and fruits unsuited for mass production on the huge state farms. Broken windows gaped at the hovercar as it climbed the steep hill to the clifftop. The rough road deteriorated to a track. Five minutes later Mary pulled up outside a cottage some fifty yards from the edge of the cliff. She and Jason carried the Friends inside and placed them on the floor. She sat down with a sigh of relief. "We're here," she informed the boxes, rather shakily. "Fine," one of the boxes said. "We're very grateful to you, Mary. You were under no obligation to #)ring us here." "What? After all you've done for me these past years? It was the least I could do. I couldn't leave you in that place." The other box spoke, a woman's voice. "But the risk you took, Mary. We didn't want you to do that. You could have left us. I couldn't believe it when the man said you'd come to fetch us -- " The male box said in a reproving tone, "It wasn't what we had arranged. You may have called attention to yourself. If I recall correctly, my girl, the arrangement was that you would get into the Center and take the Code Card so that you could use it yourself until we came up for placing in bodies again. The authorities would think the card had gotten lost somewhere and would issue a duplicate. Then we would all have cards." "That's all right," said Mary. "I can keep you here for as long as I like. When I take you back to the Transfer Center the same thing will apply. They'll find they're a card short and will issue another. I don't see any problem." "But the risk -- " murmured the female Friend helplessly. "Oh, be quiet. Mum," said Mary. She got up and began to prepare herself some coffee while the two Friends chattered to each other. E dgar greenwood and Mary Atkinson had sought refuge in iBranscombe from the concrete falsity of Axminster some sixteen years earlier. Both were then twenty-four physical years old and considered themselves in love, a pleasant fantasy in which most people indulged approximately once every physical lifetime. It did no harm -- indeed it was of positive benefit, this periodic heightening of the emotions. It provided most people with something to look forward to during their late thirties. A new childhood, a new adolescence with the added benefit of experience, a new love affair at the height of the new body's powers. The prospect also made the waiting peric in the Friendship boxes more bearable. A mutual acquaintance had told them of Branscombe and the deserted cottages, and they arrived one autumn morning for a short honeymoon. At first they stayed in the village itself and got to know the few hard-working inhabitants. The day they were due to return to their jobs in the city they loaded the hovercar with their baggage and climbed in. Edgar had even pressed the starter when he turned for a last look at the sea. Mary had been looking in the same direction -- now, suddenly, she turned to face him. Without a word both of them got out of the car, unloaded their baggage and, under the amused gaze of the villagers, marched back into the cottage. It seemed that there was no problem about their jobs -- the local employment office took the view that it was their own business if they wanted to rough it in Branscombe. This was a relief -- somehow, due to the extreme regimentation of labor in Axminster, they had gotten the idea that there was something illegal about dropping out in this manner -- but apparently it was not so. There was unemployment in the city -- someone else would be glad to take their places. There was just one small snag: it was suspected, though never overtly stated, that preference on the Waiting List for bodies was given to Friends who had held regular jobs in their last physical lives. But Edger and Mary were twenty-four and Transfer was sixteen years away. Life was pleasant in Branscombe. The neighbors were helpful and Edgar soon established an adequate income from a smallholding on the hillside. The weeks went by and each day he and Mary discovered to their recurring delight that they were still in love. Soon Mary became pregnant. They moved out of the village to Cliff Cottage, a half-mile away, and in the following October Mary bore a daughter. She was a wonderfully pretty baby, Edgar and Mary IF thought. They had been living at Branscombe for a year by now and Axminster seemed far away -- as did the laws of the land. For days they avoided the subject of the Transfer Center and their legal obligations concerning the baby. It seemed to them diabolically wrong for this child to be taken to the Center -- there to be implanted with someone else's adult mind. Unfortunately the law stated that it was a crime for them not to relinquish the baby. There was never a definite time when Edgar and Mary admitted to themselves that they intended to break the law. But the days went by and the baby grew and somehow they never got around to reporting the birth to the authorities. Eventually Edgar took the villagers into his confidence -- there was no way this could be avoided -- and, not entirely to this surprise, they were sympathetic. The matter was discussed at an informal meeting, out of which came a surprising suggestion. If the child became known as Mary Atkinson -- if it took its mother's name -- there would be no reason why it shouldn't move about freely, using the mother's Code Card as a means of identification when required. The same card would serve for both people. So the child grew up as Mary Atkinson, looked after by Edgar Greenwood and Mary Atkinson Senior -- and, indirectly, the village of Branscombe. Naturally, as the first real child many of the residents had seen for well over a century, she received the best of attention. Then -- when she was fifteen years old -- her parents became due for physical euthanasia. Their Code Cards had to be surrendered and Mary lost her identity again. It was likely that her parents would have to remain in Friendship Boxes for several years, during which period Mary might at any time be called upon to prove her identity. So the scheme of stealing back the Code Card was born. It would probably have worked, too, if Mary had not, out of sympathy to her parents, contracted to look after them for a while. ii "VT'OU'RE quite sure nobody X suspected anything, dear?" asked Friend Mary Atkinson Senior. "I'm sure they didn't," Mary replied. During the past hour she had answered the same question at least six times. "What about that man I heard talking?" her father asked. "I didn't like the sound of his voice. He was trying to -- make out with you, you know." Edgar Greenwood was concerned. In his present helpless state he doubted her ability to cope with the pack of lustful males his imagination saw sniffing around her. "I didn't like him," Mary reassured him. Edgar was silent, torturing himself. Mary was growing up and he had not thought of this soon enough. He had brought a totally innocent child into a world of men, any one of whom had had at least one hundred and sixty years' experience. Mary poured herself a cup of coffee and sat down again, eyeing the Friends thoughtfully. The resilience of youth had abated her initial sorrow and now she must consider the implications of the present situation. Money was fortunately no problem. The villagers had offered their assistance toward keeping the smallholding in shape for the next few years. In addition, her father had built up substantial savings. "What are you doing, dear?" asked her mother. "I'm drinking a cup of coffee." "Oh? I hope you haven't made it too strong, dear. Coffee's not good for a girl of your age." in. "What I wouldn't give for a scotch right now." Mary Atkinson Senior made a sound very much like the clicking of a tongue. "Edgar! Not at this hour of the morning. Oh -- " She broke off as the needlessness of her remark struck her. "It always takes a day or two to get used to the Friendship box," she said in a small voice. Mary, sipping her coffee and regarding the two boxes on the floor, felt the sadness well up in her again. She put down her cup. "I think I'd better get along to the smallholding and make sure things are all right," she remarked. "Jason can stay here with you." She stood up. Edgar said, "Make sure Jeffs knocking the bottom leaves off the sprouts. They grow firmer that way. And those leeks should need earthing up again." Mary stepped out into the autumn sunshine, closing the door behind her. She stood for a moment on the rough track to the village, looking out to sea. The sky was cloudless and the sea's ultramarine dashed with silver -- a tanker crept along the horizon. She could hear the muted rumble of the waves at the cliff base and walked across the short springy grass, looked down at the rocks a hundred feet below. The water was deep there, the rocks jagged, and the waves lapped and slobbered in and out of the clefts. Mary shuddered involuntarily and wondered why the scene always suggested suicide to her. What was her fascination with the rocks washed by the sea far below? Why didn't they caU to her mind fishing, bathing or climbing -- or even murder? Why always, always suicide? Shivering the thought from her mind she turned and walked along the cliff path toward the village. After a while the ground began to fall away and the cottages were in IF sight, gray and peaceful in the sun. She walked over to the smallholding, a series of neat rectangles of cultivation on the hillside. A slight Figure was there, bent double, weeding. "Hello, Jeff," she called. seeing Mary, grinned. He was eleven physical years old and, like everyone in the village, believed in working to the best of his capabilities regardless of his physical age. The community was too small for passengers and it was accepted that people going through a childhood undertook light work. "Hello, Mary. Can I assume everything went all right? I saw the car go past a while back." "Oh, yes. No difficulty. I even brought Mum and Dad back as Friends." "You what?" Astonishment changed Jeffs grin. "Well, I'm damned. You've got a hell of a nerve, Mary. That's the advantage of being truly young, I reckon. When you get to be my age and have had a few Transfers life seems more valuable with each body. You become so cautious that in the end it's a wonder you ever do anything at all." He sighed. "It must be great to be young." "It's not all good." Mary smiled. "Every single person I meet is more experienced than I in every way. There was a man at the Transfer Center this morning who gave me the creeps in the weirdest way -- and I couldn't think why. It was something to do with sex, I suppose." Jeff regarded her, the intent adult appraisal incongruous on his childish face. She was flushed from her walk in the sun and the dress clung to her figure. He found himself wishing he were a few physical years older. "Oh, God," he said quietly, as the implications of her innocence struck him again. She' was probably the only girl in the country who had never... "Be careful, Mary," he said earnestly. "You're growing up into a very pretty woman." "I can take care of myself," she assured him. She laughed at his expression. 'Mum and Dad have told me the facts of life." "I dare say, but -- Oh, well, I suppose it's safe enough here in the village. There are a lot of queer characters in Axminster, though." Mary found his concern amusing. "Don't worry, Jeff. You all treat me as though I were a child. It does me good, though. I was feeling terrible a minute ago. It seemed everything was weighing me down, with Mum and Dad in boxes. Suddenly I had responsibilities -- I've got to look after the two people who had been looking after me all my life. I found myself wondering if I was up to it. But talking to you and hearing all this nonsense about the sex maniacs in Axminister again -- why, it's quite like old times. Can't you villagers realize that Axminster folk are just like yourselves?" "Maybe so, but we've known you since you were a baby, Mary. Nobody in the village would lay a finger on you." Jeff smiled. "Not that I don't find you attractive, myself." "Why, you dirty young man! Speaking of dirt, Dad asked me to remind you about earthing up the leeks." "All done." Jeff waved a hand at the neat ridges. Mary glanced at him suspiciously, bent down and brushed away soil. Tips of strong, grasslike leaves showed. "Oh, good. A bit deep, aren't they? Will they come through again?" "Of coui;se," he replied patiently. "I always reckoned Edgar didn't put his leeks in deep enough." "My Dad's the best gardener in Branscombe -- " Mary broke off miserably at the thought of the immobile black box back at the cottage. "Never mind, honey. I've done the brussels sprouts as well. I expect he asked about those." "Thanks." "And the potatoes -- and everything else. You don't have to worry about a thing. Just take it easy and look after your parents. Friends get frustrated and crotchety after a while. I tell you what. Bring them down to my place tonight. The conversation will do them good." "I might do that. And thanks for your help, Jeff. I'd better get back. I'll tell Dad everything's in good hands." "Fine." Jeff watched her as she climbed back up the hillside. He sighed, feeling inexplicably sad. M ary herself was more cheerful as she took the road back to the cottage. With neighbors like Jeff Waters she would not need to worry. Apart from companionship, the needs of Friends were few. Also, she herself could move about with greater freedom now that she didn't have to share a Code Card with her mother. This meant that she could, if she wanted, get a job in Axminster. She decided that she ought to discuss this with her parents. "Hello there! Wait a moment." The shout came from behind her. She turned and saw a figure hurrying up the slope from the village. She paused, expecting one of the neighbors. As the man drew closer, however, she became puzzled and turned away, quickening her pace. He was a stranger and strangers were suspect in these parts. All too frequently they proved to be state investigators poking about, trying to catch the community harboring some illegality. The man drew level and put a hand on her arm, restraining her. He smiled. "Hello, Mary. Don't IF you remember me? Linton James, from the Center." She remembered him now. It was he all right, hot and flushed with haste. She fought down panic. "Of course I remember you," she replied. "What are you doing here? Did I forget to sign the form?" A dread sat heavily in her stomach -- she tried not to show it. "Oh, the form," he said lightly. "Never mind that. No. It's my day off -- and seeing your address reminded me I hadn't been here for years. I thought I'd take the bus out and see what the old place looked like. I came here once -- oh, three physical lives ago. A long time. How long have you lived here, Mary?" "All of this physical life." "How are the Friends? Settling in all right?" "Fine." She tried to move on, but his grip on her arm tightened. His smile had become fixed and intent as he regarded her. She looked toward the village desperately, but the houses were hidden by the crest. "Good," he said. "It's very kind of you to take two Friends like this. Helps us out a lot at the Center. I suppose you knew them in their previous life?" "They were two of the villagers. They looked after me during my last childhood." "Not enough people think of being grateful. You're a nice girl, Mary. I hope you don't mind my calling you Mary -- I feel as though I know you quite well. Funny, how it sometimes happens like that. It was lucky for me I happened to be in the Center when you came in." "I thought you said it was your day off." "Well, you know how it is. I've got a pretty good position there. Ewell -- practically eats out of my hand. So I just said to him, Ewell, I said. I'm taking the day off. Enjoy yourself, Man James, he said. We have a good relationship, Ewell and I. He's an android, but that doesn't worry me. He's only been in Axminster for a short while, so he has to depend on me a lot." "I must be getting on. Nice meeting you again, Man James." Mary tried to detach herself. She had a suspicion that James was slightly insane. "Don't go. Not yet. Let's sit down for a moment." Mary found herself forced to the ground. James sat beside her, still gripping her arm, his feet dangling over the cliff edge. The waves below boomed dully. "I don't often get the chance to talk to a nice girl like you," he resumed. "Woman Adams, she's the receptionist at the Center, she never speaks to me nicely. She thinks she's better than me because she's putting in for promotion to a Preferred Trade next year. She's a bitch. She's repulsive, physically, but she fancies her chances -- " Mary was terrified. The sea was a long way below and her back was aching from holding herself bolt upright, rigidly away from James who was now sliding his arm around her. Why didn't someone come? She didn't know what to do. If she tried to get away from this madman he would push her over the edge, as like as not. "What's more, I think there's something going on between her and Ewell -- that's why she won't have anything to do with me. She's having an affair with that android. She thinks she's too good for me." James' grip around Mary's shoulders had relaxed and his expression was inward -- he was reliving some past humiliation. "But why should I worry? I get plenty of girls. Funny thing -- I've always been able to get on well with them. Girls seem to go for me. Do you find me attractive, Mary?" He twisted her around until his face was inches from hers and she could smell his acrid breath. She didn't reply. She was trembling violently and a tear crept down her cheek. "Because I find you attractive, Mary. I find you very attractive. Don't cry -- it spoils your lovely face." His gaze traveled down. "You've got nice legs. Did anyone ever tell you your legs are nice, Mary?" M ary flinched as his hand gripped her knee, squeezed. then slid upward. She pushed him away violently. "Leave me alone," she protested. "Let me go!" His breath was coming fast -- his face had a curiously sullen look. He pushed her down and lay half across her, talking fast. "Oh, come on, Mary, come on now, I love you -- make love to me Mary. There's nothing to be afraid of -- " He broke off suddenly as she slapped him across the face with her free hand. He gripped her wrist, winced as her knee drove into his stomach, pinned her to the ground while she twisted frantically. "Like that, is it?" His eyes stared into hers with an amalgam of hate and lust. "I thought so. You think you're too good for me, like all the others. And that's not all. You've never had it before, yoii little bitch. I know. I know that stunt you pulled with the card. You're a nonentity. You've got no card of your own. I could turn you in." His hand was fumbling under her skirt. "I will turn you in, unless you lie still." His other hand was cupped over her mouth. The terror in her eyes lent him confidence and strength. He felt supreme, all-powerful. Mary looked past his face at the blue sky. Little puffs of white cloud hovered above her and she could hear, beyond the fast urgent breathing, the dim roar of the sea at the cliff base. Was this happening to her -- so near her own house and IF almost within view of the village? The coarse, short grass was rough against the backs of her legs. Her knees were forced apart and she tried to scream as the agony entered her, but something hot and stifling was covering her mouth. Ill her feet. She stood unsteadily. "Now we go to your house," he said stonily. Keeping hold of her arm, he began to propel her along the cliff path. "It's along here, isn't it? You've got a car there." He felt dull and vindictive -- the sight of the girl; bent and sniveling, irritated him. "For God's sake, stop crying!" At the cottage he opened the door and pushed her inside. "Clean yourself up," he commanded. "We're taking a ride." He glanced at the two black boxes. "Hello, Friends," he said contemptuously. "I've just been enjoying your daughter's company. She is your daughter, right?" In the corner of the room the carrier dog growled softly. "You don't scare me, Fido. You're programed to obey and never to attack. Sit, you stupid bastard." The dog sat. James sniggered. "What -- what did he do to you, Mary?" Edgar's voice spoke. Mary ran into the bathroom. "She's grown up all of a sudden," James explained, cold amusement in his voice. "I did her a good turn, you might say. She's had her experience of adulthood just in time. Because she hasn't got much more time, has she? She's a nonentity. I've got proof. I'm going to take her to the Center now. Total Death. Still, she's learned what life is all about." "You swine." The box spoke helplessly. "You lousy, rotten swine." "Not very original," commented James. He walked over to the box and kicked it heavily. "You'd better watch your language. Friend. Come to terms with yourself. You realize that concealing a birth is punishable by Total Death? You're already in the box. There'll be a trial, of course, but the evidence is all against you. Which means that you'll never have a body again. After they find you guilty they'll just wipe you out. Obliterate you. And your wife -- I suppose that's what you call her. Both of you. Oh, boy." He chuckled insanely, feeling quite exalted. He, Linton James, was totally in command of the situation. "How old are you, exactly?" asked Edgar. "What's it to you?" queried James suspiciously. "I just wondered. I wondered what sort of lousy series of lives could bring a man to your situation. I'd guess you were one of the last children and in all your lives others have been superior to you. I ought to feel sorry for you, I suppose." "Thanks a lot. Very kind of you. I'm sure. And hasn't your wife got anything to say? Is the other Mary Atkinson struck dumb? How about a bit of motherly sympathy for poor downtrodden Man Linton James?" The other box spoke at last. "There's nothing I can say." Mary Atkinson Senior sounded infinitely weary. "Except -- why? What have you got against us all?" "Nothing personal. It's just a question of cash. I get prize money for this." "We've got money." "Thanks, no. I also get the chance of being promoted to a Preferred Trade. You know what that means? No Friendship period for me. Immediate Transfer to another body at age forty. That's worth more cash than you've got." He walked to the bathroom and jerked open the door. "Hey, Godiva," he said, grinning. "Get some clothes on. We're going. Your folks have just failed to buy me off." Eventually Mary emerged in a clean dress. Ignoring James, she addressed the boxes. "Bye, Mum," she said quietly, "Bye, Dad. I'm -- I'm sorry. It's all my fault. I should never have tried to get you out of the Center." "You can cut out the tender farewells," James said. He addressed the boxes. "We'll be coming back. You constitute evidence, right where you are in your own house. I want the police to see you here." He laughed, seized Mary by the arm and took her to the car. looked up as they entered. "Yes, James?" He regarded Mary with surprise. Linton James smirked. "One nonentity," he said, pushing Mary forward. "Together with evidence." He reached into his pocket. "One Friendship contract incorrectly filled out, one Code Card fraudulently being used by said nonentity." "Oh?" Ewell took the proffered items, glancing at James with some distaste. "Why didn't you go to the police?" "Thought I'd see you first, you being in charge of the Center, There's more evidence at Branscombe. Two Friends -- with carrier dog usd in said fraud." "For God's sake, stop talking like a policeman, James. Let's get this straight. Tell me the story in sensible language. What's it all about?" Somewhat abashed, James explained, describing the visit of Mary to contract for the Friends. He laid emphasis on her nervousness. He related his discovery of the duplication of names and of the missing card in the Habitation Room. The chase to Branscombe. The confrontation with the parents. The confession. "Mary Atkinson," Ewell read the name thoughtfully. IF "So we've got one card representing both this girl here and a Friend at present in a cottage at Branscombe, both of whom have "committed criminal acts punishable by. Total Death," explained James unctuously. "To say nothing of another Friend at Branscombe who is guilty of concealing a birth. Here is his card from the Habitation Room." "Yes, yes," said Ewell impatiently. He looked at Mary. The whole affair disgusted him -- he wished James had gone to the police in the first place. He, Ewell, was a surgeon, not a tribunal. The girl looked scared stiff, which wasn't surprising. He felt sorry for her -- after all, it wasn't her fault that her birth had been concealed. Still, his duty in the matter was clear. "Do you agree with what Man James has said. Woman Atkinson?" Mary nodded dumbly. "Oh." He tapped his fingers thoughtfully on the desk. James was right, of course. You could tell at a glance that this girl was immature. She reminded him of a daughter he once had. therefore in unusual ways privileged, not by law, but by circumstances. The birthrate had fallen, as had been expected, following the enactment of the Transfer laws. Android births, however, had in recent years risen, with the result that many android children were allowed to progress to adulthood in the family atmosphere of their parents' homes. Other humans generally opted for Friendship rather than accept Transfer to an android body. with undying delight his daughter's progress from childhood to womanhood and had thanked God that he was an android. The child's mother, a human woman named Alice Lander, with whom he had had an affair many years ago, had been a Placement Officer and had placed the tiny child in a creche for future use as a host body, though she had not been legally obliged to give up the child, technically an android. A woman in her position, she had told him, could hardly bring up a half-breed child. He had traced the infant, taken it home and, with the assistance of a female companion, brought it up. Thus he was able to rationalize his sympathy as he looked at Mary. So it was tough on the kid and she reminded him of his daughter. But Mary was a human, a nonentity, and her parents were criminals. He had no alternative. He stood, picking up the evidence. Thumbing the button on his visiphone, he spoke briefly to police headquarters, requesting their 'Jjresence at Branscombe. "We'll take your car, if we may," he said to Mary. She nodded and muttered something. "What's that, child? Speak up." Mary looked straight at him -- there was decision in her blue eyes. "This man -- " she indicated James -- "raped me. I -- I wouldn't say anything now, but -- my parents know. I couldn't stand going dM through it again -- with them there. But they'll tell you -- if you don't believe me. He bragged about it to them." Ewell sat down abruptly, staring at James. "Is she telling the truth?" James shuffled his feet, then regarded Ewell defiantly. "She's telling the truth," he said. "Okay, I raped her. She led me on, though. I was following her to find out where she lived and she said hello and -- made me want her. You know how they do." He winked knowingly. "Anyway, I don't see that it matters. She's a nonentity. You can't commit a crime against a nonentity. If she preferred a charge, it wouldn't even reach the courts." Ewell looked at him for a long time. At last he said quietly, "James, you are a lucky, dirty little bastard." "There's no cause to go speaking to me like that, Man Ewell!" "There's every cause -- and you know it. I know why you involved me in this thing instead of going straight to the police. It wasn't only because you' wanted me as a witness. It was because you wanted my recommendation when ou apply to bepgraded as Preferred. You thought the police might take all the credit. You wanted to be sure I understood how clever you'd been in making your miserable little arrest. Right? Well,I understand. And I tell you this: as long as I'm the surgeon in charge of Axminster Transfer Center you'll get no recommendation from me. This whole thing stinks. My job is performing Transfer operations, not running around the country after so-called criminals." He looked at Mary helplessly. "I'm afraid there's nothing much I can do for you, my dear. The law is clear enough." "But I want you as a witness, Man Ewell," insisted James stubbornly. "Right. Let's get over to Branscombe, then. And I want you tcT understand, James -- I have not the slightest sympathy with your actions. I'll witness because the law compels me to, as senior of the Center. But I won't say one word that might cause your prize money to be increased." Somewhat shaken, James stepped aside as Ewell politely took Mary's arm and conducted her from the room. sentially kind-hearted. He frequently came across instances of hardship where he felt the law might resonably be relaxed. The case of Mary Atkinson was one such. Through no fault of her own IF the girl could not be allowed to exist. The parents were a different proposition, he felt. They had committed their crime fifteen years ago for purely selfish reasons and without thought of the problems it would present their daughter as she grew older. At best she could have looked forward to a perilous life in hiding, knowing that detection would mean Total Death for her ,mother as well as herself. He had very little sympathy for the parents -- if they had simply wanted her to survive they could have tried placing her with androids. He had heard of instances. "What are your parents like, Mary?" he asked curiously as the hovercar sped out of the city, Linton James at the wheel. She had been sitting hunched in a corner, gazing dully through the window. She brightened at his question. "They're nice," she said. "They both worked very hard, like all the dropouts at Branscombe, but they still had plenty of time for me and for enjoying themselves. These last few years I've been helping them on the smallholding. They've been wonderful to me all my life. Still, i suppose all real parents are like that -- were like that, I mean." "You don't think -- " He hesitated, not wishing to upset her, but wanting nevertheless to know. The psychology of concealed births interested him. "You don't think that perhaps they were a little bit selfish, bringing you up the way they did? I mean, they must have known you'd be found out in the end -- and they as well." "And we'd all get Total Death?" She looked at him candidly -- he was amazed at her composure. "That's the luck of the game. They went into it with their eyes open. They wanted a child of their own and they had one. As for me, what difference does it make? If they had reported me in the proper manner I'd have been taken from them as a baby. At six months my head would have been opened and someone else's grown-up brain would have been put in there." She made a face. "I'd never have known what it's like to be me, would I?" She took his hand and stared into his eyes. "What does it feel like, about in someone else's body? You're a Transfer Surgeon. I'll bet you've done so many operations you never even think of it any more. Tell me this. Have you ever wondered what the child -- the one who's body you're wearing -- would have grown up like?" Ewell jerked his hand away as a thrill of pure horror ran down his spine. In front, James twisted around, the car on automatic. "She's dangerous, Man Ewell. She's up to all the tricks like the rest of the dropouts. They've got no respect for the law, so they try to put their own twisted reason in its place. Do you know, recently a lot of them have been opting for Total Death when the time of their Transfer comes around? That's probably why her parents weren't too worried about breaking the law. They have no thought for humanity as a whole and the drain on total brainpower people like them cause when they opt to die." Ewell recovered -- he wasn't going to let James get away with that. "I'm afraid I believe in the right of any individual to die if he wants to," he said firmly. "If you want to get along with me you'd better believe the same. There must be some freedom, for God's sake." "Thank you, Man Ewell," said Mary. outside the cottage. Ewell climbed from the car reluctantly -- he had no stomach for the painful interview to follow. At least, he thought, the police hadn't yet arrived. James led the way and he followed, holding Mary's arm lightly, half-hoping she would make a run for it. The area was remote and she had friends around. After the early afternoon sunlight the interior of the cottage was dark. Ewell blinked, saw a table and a few chairs, sat Mary down and turned to James. He sighed. "Let's get on with it. The police will be here in a minute. I'll just hear the confessions and then go, if you don't mind. You can deal with all the formalities." James was staring into the corner of the room. There was a moment's silence. "Well?" James whispered, "Something's gone wrong. Oh, Christ -- " "What the hell's the matter with you?" James swung round. "There's only one box there, Man Ewell. There's only one box. I left two of them. Her parents. I swear both her parents were here when I left." He was almost crying, "Pull yourself together. Here, let me have a look." Ewell walked about the room, peering under the table, the chairs. There was no sign of the other Friend. Linton James turned on Mary. "Where's it gone, you little bastard? What sort of trick have you pulled?" Mary was silent. There was a quiet dread in her eyes. James seized the remaining box and put it on the table. "Where's the other one?" he shouted. "What have you done with your -- " Who the hell are you anyway?" He bent forward, peering at the number. "I'm Edgar Greenwood," stated the box quietly. "Where's your damned wife?" "She's not here." the box sounded infinitely sad. "I can see that!" shouted James, pounding the Friend with his fist. "Where's she gone?" "Gone? Let' just say that she's IF exercised one of the few right remaining to her." Mary was crying softly. From a distance came the faint wail of the police siren. "What the hell are you trying to say?" James was beside himself. He yelled into the Friend's microphone. "Are you telling me she's killed herself? Because I won't take that. She couldn't have moved. Oh, my God. The dog. Where is he?" Ewell walked to the door and looked into the sunshine. He thought for a moment, his features grave. The police siren was nearer -- he could see a dark spot moving rapidly along the cliff path. He turned and entered the cottage, placing an arm around Mary, who was sobbing uncontrollably. "Oh, James," he said. Linton James looked at him, his eyes wild. "What?" "You're all overwrought." Ewell handed him a cigarette, took one himself, struck a match. James puffed away gratefully, "Thanks. I'm sorry, Man Ewell. I got carried away, what with those crooks cheating me out of a third of my prize money -- What are you doing?" The match still flared in Ewell's fingers. He touched it to the edge of a piece of paper and watched with interest as it curled and blackened and flames crept around the edge. "A dramatic moment, James," he murmured. For an instant James stared uncomprehending. Then he sprang forward with a yell. Ewell thrust him away roughly. He stumbled, fell to his knees and watched helplessly as the flame consumed the last comer of the paper. Ewell ground the ashes under his foot. "You've burned the form she filled in before," whispered James. "You've destroyed the evidence. What the hell are you playing at?" Ewell reached in his pocket and took out a Code Card. He handed it to Mary. "Here you are, my dear. You now have an identity." He turned back to James, who had climbed to his feet and was watching Ewell wide-eyed. "You see, James, sometimes things can work themselves out without, shall we say, bureaucratic intervention. We "have one girl and we have one Friend. We have one Code Card here and one Code Card in the Transfer Center. It seems there was once an irregular document, but this has ceased to exist, so why All Magazine Retailers magazines available to all retailers. Full details on procedures and requirements for proper display of mission of semi-annual sales affidavits can be obtained by writing Select Magazines Inc., # Park Ave. South, New York, N.Y. # worry? All is technically in order." James was silent, white-faced. "Oh, except for one matter," Ewell went on. "Linton James, I regret I must have you charged with the rape of Woman Mary Atkinson. If found guilty you will of course receive a sentence of not less than eight years and also be statutorily ineligible for future Transfers. I believe I can hear a police car." Linton James stared at him, mumbled something unintelligible and ran from the room. They heard the back door slam. The police car wailed to a halt outside. Ewell touched Mary on the shoulder. "I'll be back in a minute," he said gently. He closed the door behind him. Outside, the police were emerging from their vehicle. "Our man got away," Ewell informed them. "He just left through the back door. Rape case. He's a vindictive little bastard -- he told me all sorts of yarns. You shouldn't have much trouble picking him up." "Oh." The inspector looked surprised. "Seeing it was you called us, Man Ewell, I thought it would be some Transfer case. You certainly get yourselves involved in some odd crimes, you Transfer people. What's the man's name?" "Linton James. A colleague of mine, unfortunately." "So that's how you come into it. Where's the girl?" "Inside the house. She's a bit upset right now, but she'll be all right. I'll bring her to see you when she's feeling better." "Fine." The inspector murmured into his throatmike, then addressed Ewell again. "I'm getting his name put on the indicator boards, just in case he gives us the slip for an hour or two. Someone will spot him." He paused, looking toward the sea. "Nice place this. Bit remote, though." He climbed back into the hovercar. "You'll appear as a witness if necessary, Man Ewell?" "Of course." The hovercar glided across the short grass and turned inland. Ewell watched it go, then walked to the cliffs edge where the carrier dog sat, gazing at the rocks below, whining softly. "You poor bastard," murmured Ewell. He remembered dogs as they used to be, before the abolition of pets on the grounds of economy. The dog regarded him, thumped its tail on the short grass, then looked down again at the rocks and the sea a hundred feet below. "Trained to obey, regardless. Well, you did the right thing this time, old boy. Even if it hurt. You know, I misjudged your mistress? I thought she was a selfish woman, bringing up a kid in this world. I was wrong. Come on, boy! Let's go and see how Mary is." Together the android and the carrier dog walked back to the cottage.  IF OF Civil unrest threatens Anharitte city on the planet Roget, just beginning the leap from feudalism into space-age technology. A giant Freetrade spaceport links Anharitte to an interplanetary mercantile system centered on Earth under the Freetrade Council. enlightened treatment of slaves by the natives as having magic powers. ran-educated technological wizard and illegally a lord of Roget. He seems to be planning an end to feudalism, threatening Freetrade-fostered status lovely, highly educated showpiece powerful native secret Society of The Pointed Tails, under leadership of discovers his warehouse has been arsonized under auspices that suggest science and technology hitherto unretaliates by bribing a prefecture registry clerk to destroy the record of The crooked clerk is instantly and mysteriously killed. No evidence links murder -- he must, however, return point where the lord of Magda would soon as he and she have left the room the document spontanously combusts. sum -- against no opposition. IX battle cruiser at the spaceport Dr. Alek Hardun had been forming his own impressions of the Imaiz. "I'm afraid," he said to Ren, "we're up against a pretty formidable technician." "You have some answers, Alek?" "Some. But they reveal a class of technology I had not expected to find on a backward world like this." Ren sat atop one of the laboratory stools. "Don't worry about the location. I'm already quite convinced that the Imaiz is Terran and is capable of anything including outmanipulating Magno Vestevaal himself. The incident with Zinder could have been funny if it hadn't been so expensive." no Hardun's eyes twinkled momentarily. "I gather it was rather a warm evening," he said. "But all things taken together. I'm not surprised. The way the register clerk died was no less clever." "Have you found how it was done?" "Yes. We did a post-mortem examination, but nearly missed the point. We were looking for a projectile of some sort in the esophagus. Of course we didn't find one -- rather, we did find it but failed to recognize it for what it was." "Spare me the riddles," said Ren. "I've been up half the night helping the director to drown his sorrows." "The answer, my dear Tito, was blood." "I don't see -- " "Neither did we -- at first. But trying to explore all possible avenues we ran some blood analyses to see if anything unusual showed up. Something did. We found two distinct blood groups. One was the blood group of the clerk. The second was undoubtedly human blood but of a completely different group. Working on the second type of blood alone, we were able to determine that it had been carefully processed and then frozen. "The rest is conjecture, but it's a reasonable supposition that what killed the clerk was a shaft of frozen blood projected by some ligh velocity instrument at a fairly short range. Such a projectile in the throat would, of course, pass almost unnoticed amid the blood and fragmentation caused by its impact and very shortly it would melt in the warm blood of its victim. A rather neat, self-obscuring murder weapon, I think." Ren nodded thoughtfully. "And not one likely to be detectable by Di Irons and his primitive police methods. What sort of weapon could have been used to throw a shaft of frozen blood with the necessary velocity?" Alek Hardun pursed his lips. "That's difficult to say. At first we thought in terms of an air rifle, but your fellow, Catuul Gras, was positive that he and his friends heard no sound at all. I think now that some form of crossbow is more likely. A good one can give you velocity and accuracy not much inferior to a rifle's. The only special requirement is that the bolt must be maintained in a frozen condition until immediately before firing. This presupposes somebody with a Dewar flask and some experience in producing and handling materials at low temperatures. It all ties in neatly with your liquid-oxygen fire at the warehouse. I would not have believed it if I hadn't seen the evidence -- but there must be a competent cryogenics man at work in Magda." "I can't imagine our being able to use your evidence to convince Di Irons," said Ren. "His world is bounded by the four elements -- earth, air, fire and water. I don't think the distinction between cryogenics and necromancy is sufficiently obvious to make him move against Dion-daizan. Especially when Dion can set a sheet of paper afire at thirty paces without even moving." "But he didn't," said Hardun. "The director set that afire himself." "Explain it to me." "It's another example of the technology I hadn't expected to find. We've been working on the fragments of the page you gave us -- and it isn't paper at all. Somebody had inserted a special page in that book. Certainly the sheet was a fibrous cellulose material, but it had been impregnated with some strong oxidizing compound. Frankly, it would have crumbled to dust in a few weeks anyway, assuming that nobody had even touched it. But it was the ink in the director's pen that touched off the fast reaction." "But all the others wrote on it without effect," objected Ren, "True. But on Roget all the available inks are waterothers all used an old-fashioned wet-dip nib pen." Ren thought back carefully. "I think you're right." "Well, the effect of a water-based ink on the sheet is negligible. It redistributes the oxidant, but doesn't react with it. But the director predictably signed with his own pen -- and that contained a modern outworld organic-based ink. The organics were rapidly oxidized and produced almost spontaneous combustion. The local heat thus liberated was sufficient to touch the rest of the page off in a self-destructive mode. That bond entry was definitely designed to have no future." Ren smiled ruefully. "I suppose you could say we've only ourselves to blame. We did the same thing to Dion-daizan -- but with only a fraction of the subtlety. The devil alone knows how much support he's gained from the incident. I'd guess all Anharitte is laughing at us this morning." "I think," said Hardun, "you're taking completely the wrong approach. You're making a game of this instead of trying for a fast, decisive strike. I know it's your war, but the problem of Imaiz is also within my competence. I'd tackle the whole affair quite differently." "This morning I could use a few ideas. I don't promise to agree, but IF I'd like to hear your version of how it should be done." "Not how it should be done," said Hardun. "How it must be done. I was thinking more on the lines of dusting the Castle Magda with carcinogens -- or the careful application of  nerve gas. Perhaps even the introduction of an ergot derivative into their drinking water -- " a daunting prospect. Constructed originally as the first defense fortress overlooking the broad Aprillo river, it had seen much service against the Tyrene pirates who ventured to pass under its cannon to reach the internal waterways leading to the soft underflesh of the city and the provinces beyond. The pirates were gone now -- their impetus having retreated into the more profitable enterprises of respectable trading houses -- but the guns and the grim, crenelated battlements of Castle Di Guaard remained unchanged as though caught in some eddy of time itself. Matching its image as a fortress was the preparedness of the soldiery contained within its gray stone confines. Indeed, a full lookout and guard were maintained on all walls as though in anticipation of an imminent attack. As Ren was admitted by Sonel Taw, the castellan -- or governor -- of the castle, he was immediately conscious of being in an armed citadel and, more surprisingly, one in which the men at arms not only carried primed muskets, but seemed fully prepared to use them on the slightest provocation. The unchanged character of Di Guaard also extended to the slaves, who in the main were ragged, wretched and nervously watchful, as though their lives depended on the speed with which they responded to a call for ' service. Many of them bore the scars of barbarous punishments -- all wore the hangdog expression of whipped curs, which turned Ren's stomach slightly. Nowhere else in Anharitte had he seen slaves reduced to this condition. Remembering the proud strengths of Zinder, he experienced a slight twinge of conscience that his mission to Di Guaard was to gain support for the destruction of the enlightened House of Magda. Castle Di Guaard was built on the principle of a bailey within a bailey, the outer containing slave quarters, stores and work yards, the inner housing the soldiery. Both were surrounded by the great walls whose machicolated parapets and mural flanking towers were designed to resist attack from any point of (he compass. There was no moat, the castle being on two sides met by the sheer drop of the cliffs overhanging the Aprillo delta. The two great gates inland were amply overseen by formidable gatehouses, each with outworks in the form of separate barbican towers. Ren followed the castellan without comment -- and the latter seemed disinclined to enter conversation. At one corner of the inner bailey stood the mighty roundtower of the great keep -- the home of Delph Di Guaard himself -- and it was here that Ren was led. The tower's broad, flat roof was said to be the highest point in all the provinces and formed an excellent platform for observation and for the light chain-throwing cannon of which Di Guaard seemed inordinately fond. The whole atmosphere was one of preparation for a battle or a siege. Ren could not help thinking that if the Imaiz influence should ever bring to pass a revolution Castle Di Guaard would probably be the last place to fall to the insurgents. no news to Ren, but having come from more civilized worlds he had forgotten that, without psychiatry and the overriding authority of the state, madness has no checks. Even more appalling was the realization that the gross madman whose chambers Ren now entered was undisputed lord of his own castle and held life or death control over a considerable number of soldiers and slaves. Even Sonel Taw, the castellan, went patently in fear of his terrifying master and excused himself rapidly at the chamber door. As he crossed the floor alone Ren felt the full impact of the man. Delph Di Guaard was leaning over a huge table, his back to the door. His vast bulk suggested superhuman strength and even from the rear Ren could sense the aura of power of the man's tyrannic personality. He found himself almost afraid of the moment when the creature would turn and face him. "Well?" Di Guaard's voice made the chamber reverberate. "What news do you bring of the Tyrene?" "No news of the Tyrene, my Lord. I come about other matters." Ren controlled his voice with a confident, faultless presence. His verbal bouts with Magno Vestevaal had been excellent training for this occasion. "Other matters?" Di Guaard shouted. "In time of war?" He swung about and Ren looked unflinchingly into the staring, accusing eyes of the mad lord. The fellow's visage writhed constantly with the underplay of some shaded thoughts in which anger and IF comprehension chased each other continuously through the flesh. "Ah, an outworlder. That would explain your naivete. You must be Agent Ren. My castellan mumbled something about your coming. Well you've come to the right man. Have the Tyrene sacked your warehouse, slaughtered your servants or raped your daughters?" His mouth almost drooled at the vision. "None of those," said Ren. "My news is more serious. It concerns the very existence of Anharitte itself." Di Guaard hit the table a heavy blow with his hand. "I knew it! I told that fool Di Irons that one day the pirates would attack in force. You see here -- " His thick fingers jabbed pointlessly at a torn chart on the table. "That's the reason why so many of their ships have congregated to the north. We have constant sightings of a hundred, two hundred ships -- they say an armada. And I, Di Guaard, am the only one in the three hills who keeps his defenses ready. The rest of them think me mad, but now it's I who am proven sane. Don't you agree that unpreparedness in time of war is mad?" "Of course," said Ren, determined to remain undaunted. "But the danger I speak of comes from within Anharitte, not from the sea." Di Guaard's scowl changed to an expression of intense consternation. "You me the Tyrene came overland across TEmpte?" He consulted his charts again and then threw them furiously back on the table. He rounded on Ren in a frightening blaze of anger. "Liar! What mischief are you selling, merchant? Dion-daizan keeps close watch on the inland waters. If any Tyrene were coming that way he'd have been sure to let me know." "Listen to me." Ren let his voice grow loud for the first time. "While you watch for the Tyrene an even greater threat is growing right beneath your feet. Dion-daizan is educating slaves... If enough become educated there will be a revolution that will ruin us all more surely than any pirate raid." "Really?" Di Guaard's face lit up with the malicious interest of a wolf about to tear apart a particularly succulent lamb. "And what makes an outworld merchant's lackey presume to tell the lords of Anharitte what they should or should not do with their slaves? Dion's more capable than most at controlling an uprising among his bondslaves. Dion's more than capable of controlling anything." As he said this last phrase, Di Guaard's voice fell to an unexpected wistfulness, as if even he acknowledged the power of the Imaiz, "I didn't say he wasn't," said Ren, suddenly forced on to the defensive. "My point was that his activities are likely to cause an uprising." The suggestion was wasted on Di Guaard, who was rounding the table with a maniacal expression of glee on his face. His gross hands were shaping themselves to fit Ren's throat. "Shall I tell you, merchant, the real purpose of your visit? You're an agent of the Tyrene trying to cause dissension and to divert my attention. You want to get your ships up the Aprillo while I turn my back to watch Thirdhill for the rising of a few slaves. Well, you've not succeeded. I've been watching your wily tricks too long. I know you -- and I know you're out there waiting for the chance to strike. Do you take me for a fool?'" R en retreated uneasily before  the big man's advance. He was not sure but the fellow's derangement might extend to his doing actual physical damage. And Ren did not dare to draw his blaster -- circumstances might force him to use it. He could kill Di Guaard in self-defense, but the political repercussions would certainly end the company's tenure on Roget. He continued his protests while the madman stalked him with a grim and ferocious amusement. Finally he realized that flight was the 'Only sensible expedient. Gauging his distance carefully, he ran for the door and slammed it behind him. Something heavy and ceramic shattered to pieces against the wood inside the room. From the insane laughter that followed he deduced that Di Guaard was unlikely to continue in pursuit, but for Ren the incident was a humiliating failure. He was not going to gain from Di Guaard the support he needed. In an alcove at the head of the stair Ren found Sonel Taw ostensibly waiting to escort him out of the establishment. Ren thought it more than probable that Taw had been listening at Di Guaard's door and had been surprised by the sudden emergence of the visitor. Since the castellan would probably be called upon to account for why he had allowed a Tyrene spy to enter his master's presence, Ren did not blame the man for seeking information in order to prepare his lies in advance. The life of a castellan in the service of Di Guaard could certainly be no sinecure. This conjecture, however, was not an idle thought. If Sonel Taw took the trouble to keep himself fully informed of everything that IF took place in the castle he could probably be of more use to the company's cause than Di Guaard himself. Ren decided to test the truth of this proposition. When they were safely out of the keep and crossing the inner bailey he turned to Taw meaningfully. "The Lord Di Guaard is plentifully supplied with information regarding the whereabouts and movements of pirates. I find this odd, since common consent has it that the pirates are no more." The castellan looked past him carefully. "It could be," he said, "that common consent is wrong. Agent Ren. Di Guaard has many spies. They report frequently and are rewarded with coin. It has been suggested that many of the things they tell are more than the truth, since they are well paid for what they say. But there's another who tells much and yet asks nothing in return." "Specifically who?" asked Ren. "Your friend the Imaiz Taw was craftily watching the agent out of the corners of his eyes. "He claims to keep watch over the inland waters and brings special reports regularly to Lord Di Guaard. Di Guaard is always much pleased to see him, and the wizard quiets his tantrums considerably. With so much impressive support for the existence of pirates, do you think it wise for you or me to disbelieve?" The castellan was purposely mocking his own words, hinting at the existence of a conspiraca development Ren had already deduced for himself. If Di Guaard was mad enough to believe that the Tyrene plunderers still functioned others could gainfully manufacture evidence in support of that belief. For some the incentive was obvious -- a purse full of money. For others, such as Sonel Taw and members of the castle household, support of the myth probably meant the continuance of their livelihood and possibly their lives. But what had Dion-daizen to gain from the charade? "Do you know why I came to see Di Guaard today?" wizened old face wrinkled with guile. "Anharitte is full of the news that you and the Imaiz have joined in feud. It's reasonable to assume that you came here looking for an ally." "A fair assumption." Ren looked at him searchingly. "But I didn't find one. At least not in Delph Di Guaard. But now I ask myself about you." "To help you in a feud against the Imaiz? Sonel Taw was obviously worried by the suggestion. "Not actively, of course," Ren reassured him. "But I need information about Dion-daizan. I need to know why he humors Di Guaard and what he might gain from such a curious association. Fd like to be informed of when he visits Castle Di Guaard -- at what hour he's likely to return from such visits and what routes he'll most probably use. In short, I need to know anything about Dion-daizan that might conceivably be turned to his disadvantage. And if your ear is as well affixed to locks as it appears to be you'll already know that the company has an excellent history of rewarding its friends for their time and vigilance." "I've often heard as much," said Sonel Taw. "And that's the type of friendship a man could learn to appreciate. But if someone made this information available to you -- would it be certain that no news of it ever got back to Di Guaard?" "All information is treated in the strictest confidence. Nothing can ever be traced back to its source through me. Nor do I keep records of what moneys have been paid. Or to whom." "Then I think you may have gained another friend," said Taw. "Not that I would hold any man of Di Guaard's household capable of subversion -- but should a messenger be received claiming to have been sent by me, it would seem reasonable that he might be believed. And if a friend might bless my savings so that they multiply I should not, through humility, be offended." "I'll bear that in mind," Ren said. "I'm a believer in humility's achieving its just rewards. You know, talking with you has been an education. I'm sure my knowledge of events in Castle Di Guaard will improve." They had passed from the inner bailey to the outer during this conversation and were now entering one of the two formidable gatehouses that gave access to the town. Upon Sonel Taw's approach the guard sprang meticulously into action. Taw had merely to wave his hand to initiate the raising of the portcullis. In the roof of the gate tunnel were slits through which all kinds of merciless fire and bolts could be discharged. Beyond it, the gate of heavy wood plated with iron lay between the overseeing flanking-towers. Farther still the outward path was confronted by the outworks of a barbican tower. Ren made a mental note that nobody could enter or leave without Sonel Taw's permission and the cooperation of the guards. By a mental inversion he decided that the walls and gates, being imIF pregnable to all save modern technological assault, not only formed a rare defense position -- but would also make a very secure prison. He had no immediate use for this information, but he stored it in his mind for future reference. There were some advantages in being an outworlder -- it gave him a unique perspective on installations traditionally designed for specific local purposes. Ren felt that his tenure in Anharitte, as elsewhere, was bound to generate some new values and he was determined to be the first not only to recognize but also to apply these altered truths to the company's and his own advantage. X HE walked back past the wayward, half-timbered houses of the quaint alleys and streets, Ren's speculations were soon eclipsed by a more immediate concern. His recent conversation with Alek Hardun had shaken him severely. Hardun had been introduced as a professional trouble shooter. Ren now felt that Hardun's real function was that of a professional trouble-maker. The equipment in the space-going laboratory that was the battle crusier was directed primarily to one end -- the sophisticated extermination of people. For all his merchant-acumen and ambition, Ren still had reservations about the deliberate taking of life. His worldliness had inured him to the fact that some extremes of provocation could only be resolved by bloodshed. In self-defense or fair fighting, losers were apt to have to pay the irrevocable penalty. This was a fact of life and Ren accepted it, but Hardun's projected subtle poisoning of dozens-pif not hundreds -- of people who would be mainly unaware that they were the subjects of an attack stuck in Ren's throat. This he regarded as an atrocity, a treatment suitable for the extermination of lice and vermin but not to be confused with the humane waging of a battle. Alek Hardun had chided Ren for expressing these sentiments. "You're confusing the issues, Tito," he had said. "You were born several centuries too late. We know the ancients used to impose rules on warfare, presumably to prolong the enjoyment of the game. But the brutal fact is that we're not here to. fight -- we're here to win. I've offered you a dozen virtually foolproof ways of winning and you've rejected them all because of some romantic notion that the enemy deserves a chance. "Do you think the bowmen stood a chance when the cannon was invented? Do you think the artillery stood a chance against the in- troduction of nuclear weapons? Within the whole spectrum of devices for furthering man's inhumanity to man, you have the temerity to stop at some arbitrary point and say: 'Death devices on the left are sporting and humane while those on the right aren't.' Such a stand is neither logical nor intelligent. And if you can't bring yourself to do the job you've started to do I'm damned if I won't finish it for you." There had been more, a lot more. Ren had become increasingly angry and Hardun had become more professionally cruel and taunting. He had effectively dismantled Ren's plans to conduct a campaign against the Imaiz and had produced alternative suggestions which Ren could only regard with horror. The effect of that conversation had lingered a long time in Ren's mind and he was determined to compare the strength of his convictions with those of the director. Vestevaal, unfortunately, had been away for several days, making a tour of company trading installations, and Ren had been left with the question festering in his mind. When Ren reached his office chambers the director still had not returned. Ren found instead that his computer printout terminal had been busy. In it lay the precious list of slaves carefully culled from reconstructed histories to shoAv those who could most possibly be agents of the Imaiz. He scanned the list anxiously, but the names meant nothing to him. For Catuul Gras, who knew everyone and everything in Anharitte, the situation would be different. Ren stuffed the list into his pocket and hastened to the Lodge of the Society of Pointed; Tails. expecting him. Ren speculated that there must be very few movements of importance of which the Pointed Tails were unaware, such was the superlative nature of, their spy web in Anharitte. He laid the list before Catuul, who examined it carefully. For some unstated reason his enthusiasm was not apparent. "I'll have our slave masters investigate this without delay -- but discreetly. No word of it must get out until we're sure. If the suspects became suspicious it would be easy for them to desert back to Magda." "I'll leave it to you," said Ren. "But it's still action only in a negative sense. It's a defensive move. What I must have from you is some scheme with a positive effect." "And you'll have it, friend Tito. I promised you a scheme of feud and harassment against Dion-daizan IF and this has now been prepared. To your outworld eyes it may seem a little superficial -- but believe me, in terms of effectiveness in Anharitte its cumulative value is equivalent to a major disaster." "I'll accept that you know what you're doing. But time's becoming critical, Catuul. I'm under pressure to destroy the influence of the Imaiz and to do it fast. If your scheme can't produce results quickly we'll be forced into taking a more direct line and attacking Dion-daizan himself." "What sort of time-scale did you have in mind?" "I think a couple of weeks only. Hardun is already campaigning with the Freetrade Council for permission to take a tougher line. I think I can stall them for a while, but we mustn't miss any opportunity to hit Dion hard." "You're worried about something, aren't you, friend Tito?" The scribe was suddenly questioning. "Yes, I am. I've come to have a great deal of respect for your culture, Catuul. As a company man I can't afford to risk losing access to the spaceport, but outside of that proviso I believe you've a right to settle your problems in your own way and without your society's becoming unduly contaminated by outworld interference. But I'm afraid that if you don't settle the Imaiz soon a more ruthless faction among the Freetraders will bring such pressures to bear that Anharitte will never be the same place after." "I'm aware of the situation," said Catuul gravely. "I've seen what the coming of the spaceport has done to us unwittingly. Thus I've no doubt of what would be the outcome of more deliberate manipulation. Frankly, that's why we opted to work with you. You've an appreciation of what a separate identity means both to an individual and to a culture. That's something rare in an outworlder." "You can thank the director. I guess I caught my attitude from him." "Well, here's our proposal. Diondaizan maintains many large estates and farms in Magda province. The value of the produce is a major source of Magda's income." "More than the spaceport revenue?" Ren was learning something new. "Certainly much more. But the point I wish to mke is that the Imaiz success in his estate policy depends on close coordination of the various estates and markets. If we destroy that coordination, his growing and marketing schemes will fall apart. Prices will rise, setting popular sysmpathy against him -- and he will soon acquire huge stocks of surplus. He will also find himself with excess manpower and will be forced to start selling slaves on a massive scale. A disaster of such consequence will smash his myth of omnipotence as nothing else will." "How could you bring this, about?" asked Ren. "Dion operates a schedule of runners who daily travel between the various marketing centers and estates. We could stop a high proportion of these runners getting through -- and in some cases substitute false messages of our own." Ren was enthusiastic. "When an organization as large and as dispersed as that hits communications trouble, things can come wildly unstuck. How long would it take to show real effect?" "Many weeks, I'm afraid. But the main harvests are nearly due. If Dion were left with those on his hands he'd be in real trouble both with his estates and with the populations he normally supplies. Of course, he'll send out armed patrols to try and prevent our interference -- but the clansmen were born to the game and Dion doesn't have anything like the army he'd need to stop us." "So all you really require to bring the Imaiz to his knees is sufficient time?" "Time and money. I want to bring in some of the provincial societies, because the area to be covered is immense. Though we shall start hurting the Imaiz immediately, the effect won't be apparent in the markets for some weeks. Therefore you've got to hold off the Freetraders while we do it our way." "I don't have that much influence myself, but I'll try to make the director see the sense of it. In the meantime, muster your forces and make a start. If we can get a good scheme under way we'll have a sure method of resisting those who want to do it the rough way." turn, gravely heard out Ren's problems. "I wasn't aware that Hardun was here in any capacity other than a technical backup for you. I know he has an allegiance to Renee, but this is our fight. You've every right to complain if he's contemplating any actions other than those specifically agreed to by you. I respect your judgment on this issue. Tito, and I'm damned if I'm going to see you pressured into making a mistake." "I've seen his copy of the Freetrade security subcommittee directive giving him power to act on IF Roget. And that battle cruiser of his is a fully equipped civil murder weapon. So I want a plain answer, Director -- am I in charge here or has Hardun the right of unilateral action? Because I want no part of some of the ideas he's outlined to me. "You say you've seen his directive? Can you recall who signed it?" "Po Cresado, as I remember." "Damn! I thought as much. The merchant-world pressure lobby. You can take it from me, Tito, that his directive doesn't have the consent of the full council. Unfortunately the merchant worlds do predominate on the security subcommittee. It looks as though the internal political battles of the council have become extended to include affairs on Roget," "Are you going to let them get away with it?" "Of course not. But it'll take a full council session to settle the issue. I'm afraid I'll have to return there to get the matter .straight. Do you think you can contain things until I get back?" "I'll try, but I've no jurisdiction over Hardun in the face of that directive. And if he thinks you're out to stop him, he's likely to move fast." "Then try pretending to work with him for a while. It might just be that he'll actually do the job for you -- and at a fraction of the price. Though I fear that even our friend Alek may not find the project as easy as he thinks." "Can you explain that to me?" "I mean the Imaiz himself is under no doubts about Hardun or his infernal space machine." "How could you possibly know that?" "My dear Ren, what do you think Zinder and I talked about while we were waiting to register her bond? She gave me Dion's ultimatum -- either I remove Hardun and the battle cruiser or Diondaizan will do the job himself. Until now I've had reservations. But from what you've just told me I can see the justification. I'll set out to have Hardun and his ship removed -- but don't feel surprised if somebody does the job for me." "I've told Catuul to go ahead with his plan to cause disruption of Dion-daizan's estate-management policies. That will at least give me a lever I can use to slow Hardun down. But it will be difficult to stop him if he does want to try a decisive strike of his own." "Then play it carefully, Tito. Take advantage of his successes and don't become implicated in his failures. That way you stay on top and the name of the company stays clean." "You've just expressed a philosophy," said Ren, "that makes me appreciate why you have so much influence in the Freetrade Council. You never lose, do you?" "I can't afford to lose," said Magno Vestevaal seriously. "And believe me. I've a few tricks up my sleeve the rest of the council haven't even thought of yet. If all goes well at the council meeting. I'll probably go on to Terra before returning here. I've been developing a few thoughts of my own about how to deal with the Imaiz -- and if I can get acceptance of my ideas on Terra I can assure you that Alek Hardun won't be rated as any serious sort of competition." XI F ollowing through on the next part of his campaign to seek influence with the Anharitte nobility. Ren had dispatched a message to Krist Di Rode requesting an audience the following morning. The reply was favorable. Before he retired, however, Ren took advantage of the caution offered by Di Irons -- he posted a guard on his chambers lest the Imaiz should feel inclined to take the initiative. An attempted assassination did not seem likely, but Ren had been an agent long enough to learn that warnings from an indigenous source were better not disregarded. Fortunately the night passed without incident and, at the appointed hour the next day, Ren traveled to the most eastern point of Firsthill and presented himself at Castle Di Rode. The contrasts between this establishment and that of Di Guaard made him realize what a fortune Di Guaard must spend on useless defense projects. Di Rode was a prodigious spender, but his considerable income from spaceport revenues had not been wasted. Castle Di Rode was bathed in an atmosphere of opulence and splendor. Though the castle was slightly smaller than that of Di Guaard, it differed in none of its essential features except that the walls and mural towers of Di Rode displayed none of the former's austerity of outline. Here the masonry was fully overgrown with a magnificent wealth of copper-burnished creeping vines, which garnished the old stone like an overlay of finely wrought metal. Expenditure on the guard was nominal, and mainly slaves and serving-men in splendid costumes tended the gatehouses and the trim gardens. Everywhere Ren sensed the hand of a connoisseur of gracious living, not the least extravagance being the maintenance of the gardens and the IF beautiful decoration of the halls. Di Rode was obviously an intellectual and an artist, possessed of an unerring sense of the overall unity of his establishment as an aesthetic whole. The numerous slaves were well tended aid nourished and probably chosen for their clean, straight limbs and physical fitness. In the whole castle he discerned not one slave whose back bore the telltale scars of whip or wire. The whole atmosphere was one of serenity and quietude. This, thought Ren, was the way money was intended to be spent. The keep of Castle Di Rode was built into the southeast extremity of the inner bailey. It held a commanding view over the Aprillo river and across the shipping lanes that connected with the inland waterways, The keep itself was no longer a simple structure. Later buildings along the walls of the inner bailey had crept around the base of the round-tower and risen to a height equal to the walls themselves. Thus the entrance to the keep was no longer gained by crossing a sterile courtyard, but rather through a delightfully random series of halls, libraries, galleries, corridors and sweeping staircases. As Ren followed his young slavecaste guide he found himself, unaccountably at first, becoming increasingly discomforted. This feeling was in part associated with the increasing richness of the perfumes and incense with which the air was saturated, but this was only a factor and not the prime cause of his unease. A gradual analysis of his feelings made him conscious of the fact that the rooms through which he passed were in a careful sequence of ascending extravagance and descending taste, and had already attained a level where the lavish dissipation of resources made nonsense both of the function and the intrinsic value of the items involved. This was so extreme a contrast with the exterior of the castle and the earlier rooms, that the only answer that suggested itself to Ren was that Di Rode, like Delph Di Guaard, was beset by advancing madness. Ren's senses protested the wrongness they recorded. When he reached the confines of the keep itself his feelings heightened to revulsion despite his efforts to contain them. Here was monumental waste with neither art nor comfort to commend it. Even the occasional alcoves were lit by candelabra mounted on the heads and shoulders of undraped slaves who stood with statuesque patience, performing a function no more important than could have been achieved by an iron pin driven into the wall. humanity caused Ren as acute a pain as he had experienced on seeing the degraded labor force at Castle Di Guaard. Profitable exploitation of others was a human weakness Ren could comprehend. To waste members of the species by forcing them to fill functions usually performed by inanimate objects was, in his view, irrational and completely indefensible. Fortunately he regained both his outward composure and his objectivity before he turned the final corner to come face-to-face with Krist Di Rode himself. He needed all his resources to contain his amazement. He had been shown into a bare cell, whose stone walls were as stark and undressed as had been the human candelabra he had passed. A high, square window without glazing looked out only to the blankness of an empty sky, and the shaped wooden bench on which the Lord Di Rode reclined offered no possible aspect of comfort. The floor of stone flags was unrelieved by carpet and the ceilings of arched stone had neither light nor beauty. Di Rode himself was also a shock to Ren. He had imagined an older, more sophisticated type of man, perhaps one trying to ward off old age by the frantic pursuit of new experience. Instead, he was confronted by a pallid figuiyof a man in his early thirties,j#rith a face which epitomized dissipation and overindulgence yet still possessed an undeniable strength. Ren had the feeling that this curious lord had tried and become dissatisfied with almost every aesthetic and sensual experience known to man. The physical dissolution was manifest, but the evidence was that the intellectual and aesthetic interest was yet unquenched. While Di Rode's face held a searching interest and unquestionable intelligence, it was obvious that unrestricted wealth, like absolute power, had wrought a remarkable corrosion on its own # With a trader's acumen Ren had summarized this much of the man before he began to speak, subtly modifying his arguments in order to stress aspects of Dion-dain's activities that might have an effect on Di Rode. The latter listened to him attentively, stopping him occasionally to query some chain of fact that led to Ren's conclusions. Then he remained for a long period in contemplative thought. "To summarize. Agent Ren, you've presented an excellent case predicting what Dion's policy might take away from me. But you've mentioned nothing about the loss of what I receive from Dion while I remain his friend." IF "We have access to the resources of all the known universe," said Ren. "There's nothing that Dion can supply that we can't better. Nothing at all." "Does that include understanding?" Di Rode was quietly mocking. "Do you have access to some cosmic source of that?" The unexpectedness of the question fazed Ren momentarily. "I don't follow you." "Think about it. If you had an unrestricted opportunity to indulge whatever whims you chose -- how long would it take you to destroy yourself?" "I don't know," admitted Ren. "I'd at least have one hell of a fine time finding out." "Spoken with all the complacency of one who'll never have the opportunity! But what does a man need when he's tasted everything, satiated every appetite and yielded to every conceivable temptation?" Ren did not answer. The question was beyond the scope of his imagination. Di Rode continued. "He needs understanding. He needs discipline. He needs a father-figure who' can pick up the mess he's become, squeeze out the rot and put back enough self-respect for the man to become a man again. That's what Dion supplies to me -- psychological rehabilitation. He picks up the pieces when I've torn myself apart and establishes new values to replace those I've lost. Dp you have something better to offer as a replacement for Dion's prowess with people?" "We have doctors -- " "Doctors are for the sick," said Di Rode cuttingly. "I'm not sick -- just unusually privileged. With Dion's aid I can probably crowd the pleasures of a hundred lifetimes into one. So you see, Ren, there's nothing you can offer me in exchange for my allegiance. Wizards don't come in tonnage lots." Ren was about to make a reply when Di Rode got up from the bench and made as though to call a servant. The agent's gaze did not follow the hedonistic lord, but remained fixed in fascination on the bench from which De Rode had risen. He saw now for the first time that the entire surface was covered with upward-pointing metal spines, like a bed of nails. In an agony of realization his eyes traveled involuntarily to Di Rode's back. Krist Di Rode was watching his perplexity with some amusement. With a swift movement he dropped the single drape that covered his back and allowed Ren to examine his flesh. There were slight indentations from the pressure of the barbs, but otherwise the skin was undamaged. In contrast, however, the open weave of the drape had been severely cut. Ren looked again to the sharp spines of the couch and again back to Di Rode. By any normal reasoning, Di Rode's back should have been lacerated to an extremely serious extent. Instead, the young lord was laughing and the main discomfort was Rens. "Well, Agent Ren -- do you still think you can do better than Diondaizan?" Ren shook his head, not trusting himself to speak. He suspected, not for the first time, that he was fighting a battle quite impossible for him to win. With Dion's influence removed, Delph Di Guaard would go berserk and Krist Di Rode would destroy himself. With such powerful nobility removed, the social structure of the three hills, undermined as it was, would slowly begin to disintegrate as surely as if the Imaiz were still pushing it. Dion-daizan had raised a social conscience and all the old forces of tradition would be hard-pressed to put that evolving creature back to bed. xX the fruit market be could see Catuul Gras waiting for him on the steps of his office chambers. He hastened over and the scribe followed him to safety behind closed doors before he would reveal the nature of his concern. "Something's gone wrong." Catuul's face was grave. "The list of slaves you gave us -- it was incorrect." "What do you mean?" "We took the slaves whose names were on the list. It didn't seem right, because most of them were well trusted and known to us. But even under pressure they gave us absolutely nothing. Most of them claimed never to have been with the Imaiz. " "Surely that's no more than you'd have expected them to say?" "True. But on further examination we found their statements to be correct. Dr. Hardun has given us i a list of our own sympathizers -- and none of Dion's men at all." "Ridiculous!" "It's all here." Catual Gras laid a sheaf of papers on the table. "Check for yourself. No man on that list has ever spent more than thirty-six hours in Magda and most of them haven't been there at all." Scowling, Ren reached for the microwave communicator and called the spaceport. Alek Hardun was a long time answering. "Tito? What's eating you?" "What in hell are you trying to do, Alek? That list of slaves you IF sent was the diametric opposite of what it was supposed to represent." "Now don't run off the spool, Tito! You asked me to reconstruct histories for a selected group of slaves and to notify you of those who'd served bond with the Imaiz for a year or longer. That's exactly what I've done." "Correction. That's exactly what you've not done." Catuul tells me no slave on that list has spent longer than two days in Magada." "Hold it! That wasn't an automatic computer printout you received. We verified that list before it went on transmission. There's no possibility of an error in the data we sent you." "Yet I'm assured the list is one hundred per cent wrong. What the hell's going on?" "Let's check first that you have the right list. Watch your computer terminal and I'll give it to you again." Ren watched as the computer printout began to spit forth names. When it had finished, he compared it with the papers Catuul had given to him. "How's that?" asked Hardun. "It agrees with the first set exactly. There's not an error in the pack." "Yet you insist they're not the names you want?" "The names you've given me are also on the select list of Pointed Tails least probable suspects." "I see!" Hardun was serious. "How many names appear on your list, Tito?" "Seventeen. You should know -- you've transmitted it." "Not on your life. My list contained seventeen names, but I transmitted only sixteen of them." "What?" "I said sixteen, Tito. All of whom I can guarantee have been at Magda for at least three years and most much longer. If you've just received a list of seventeen names, there's only one conclusion -- the list you're receiving is not the one I'm transmitting. Somebody else has access to your terminal line. They're intercepting what I'm sending and substituting a list of their own." "Damn!" Ren considered the enormity of the prospect. Most of the company's business transactions were reported via his terminal to the spaceport computers for processing and onward transThe director's reports on the state of the feud with Dion-daizan went out over the same channel. The thought of unauthorized access to the terminal linkage made his blood run cold. With a chill creeping up his spine, he turned the instrument off. "Can you spare me some linesmen, Alek? My terminal is on a wired circuit with the spaceport. I can only assume it's been tapped." "Not only tapped," said Hardun. "I'd suspect that it's being consistently monitored by an online computing complex compatible with that at the spaceport. The insertion of a substitute list at that juncture is no ijiean feat of technology. What the hell have they got up there at Magda?" "I wish I knew. All the signs now are that they've a modern technological workshop that can match anything we can produce. This has to put a new face on how we approach the attack on the Imaiz -- but I'll take the matter up with you personally. I don't even trust this microwave voice link now." "That's wise," said Hardun. "But before I sign off I'll read you the list of names you should have received." He did so. Ren copied them faithfully and handed the results to Catuul Gras. The scribe compared them with another list and shook his head concernedly. "The names you've given me match the list of slaves who've escaped in the last two days. We presume they've gone to Magda, though the evidence isn't clear. It would seem the devil has recalled his own." F inding the actual position of the line tap was difficult. Because Anharitte had no telephone and no electric services the customary array of available poles was absent from the landscape. When Ren had decided to bring his office into the fruit market in Anharitte proper he had found it neccessary to arrange for his wire link with the spaceport to be laid across private land wherever he could purchase the goodwill. The line now took a circuitous route across roofs, under eaves, around gables and dormer windows, and generally progressed in a most unorthodox manner until it ran free of the town and came to the western slopes of Firsthill. From there it ran across the country on company-owned poles parallel to the Provincial Route that skirted the spaceport. Despite the apparent opportunity for interference with the line in the town itself it was, curiously enough, on one of the poles on the open stretch of road that the tap was eventually found. The line had been split and both ends coupled into a neat black cable that ran unobtrusively down the pole and disappeared deep into the sandy soil of the provincial plain. Attempts to trace the path of the unauthorized cable proved tiresome and expensive and they were finally abandoned. Its general direction IF was, as Ren had known it would be, toward Magda. The depth and security of its lodgment showed it to have been buried at about the same time as Ren's own cable had been installed. This latter fact alone made the agent squirm. A great volume of confidential company business had been fed into the line over the past few years. Had the Imaiz been operating for a trade competitor the company could have suffered extreme Ipsses as the result of this unanticipated leakage of information. There was no evidence that the knowledge the Imaiz must have gained had been used to the company's disadvantage -- but it was a late time to realize that one's commercial future lay in the hands of a sworn enemy. Nor was Ren's temper improved by a further consideration. From his terminal, by means of signature codes, he had access not only to company computer data banks at the spaceport, but also to the spaceport's common computer banks. With the right sort of intercept equipment the Imaiz, too, would have had similar access to the same data banks and, by extrapolation there would scarcely seem to have been a commercial transaction on Roget of which the master of Magda need have remain unaware. As a commercial blunder the situation was without parallel. The only mitigating factor for those involved was that no one could reasonably have suspected that on a relatively undeveloped planet like Roget there existed either the equipment or the technology to make this sophisticated form of espionage a fact. The strength of Dion-daizan lay as much in what he concealed as in what he revealed. Wryly Ren wondered how many other surprises the Imaiz still had up his sleeve. D espite his growing antipathy for Alek Hardun, Ren was now forced to visit the spaceport in order to continue the company's business transactions. This was because he suspected he could trust the security of neither the wire circuit nor the microwave link. Although he tried to stay out of Hardun's way, it was inevitable that the latter would learn of his coming and seek him out. "You wouldn't be trying to avoid me, would you, Tito?" "Why should I?" Ren's answer was couched in a frame of aggrieved innocence. "I've been very busy, that's all." "I just wondered." Hardun was probing. "I mean, we've not yet completed our little chat on ways of removing the Imaiz. And they tell me Director Vestevaal has made a hurried trip back to Freetrade Central. I naturally wondered what was brewing." "I wouldn't know. The director mentioned something to me about visiting Terra, but I'm not exactly in his confidence." This was so patent a lie that Hardun did not even pretend to believe it. "Very well, Tito! If you want to play it close to the chest that's your affair. Ranee Intelligence will give me all the answers I need, so don't let the director think he's acting too cleverly." "I don't see how you'd know," Ren said critically. "You're scarcely in his class." For a moment a spear of anger burned in Hardun's eyes. Then, with amazing composure, he turned the expression of malice aside and overlaid it with a veneer of genial charm. "Look, Tito -- I know we have our differences on the way the job's to be done, but we're still here for a common purpose. We mustn't forget the Imaiz is a very clever enemy. Nothing could suit him better than to have us divided. Let's not play into his hands. How's your campaign going?" "Slowly, but I think we've got it made. The Pointed Tails have produced a scheme for disrupting Dion's holdings right through Magda Province. I've been into it in detail and I don't see how they can fail. Given nine months we'll have the Imaiz begging for alms in the streets." "Nine months!" The veneer of geniality was stretched taut. "And Vestevaal settled for that? It shouldn't take nine days to settle a little issue like this. Somebody's going soft," "That's your view, Alek. But you haven't studied the local conditions as I have. Believe me, we have to play this one very softly." "I accept that it's your fight, Tito, but I'd like to make one strike just to prove to you that I can do as I say." "Then make it, Alek. I don't seem to be able to stop you," said Ren unexpectedly. "But I'm not supporting you and I don't wish to be implicated in any way. Furthermore, if you make a hash of it and the whole thing blows up into an interplanetary row I'll set up such a howl for your skin that even Ranee'll have to throw you to the wolves. As far as I'm concerned you're a Ranee combat unit and nothing to do with legitimate Freetrade at all." "I can see you've been doing your homework." Hardun's acIF knowledgment was a grudging acceptance of the terms. "I'll make the strike tonight and guarantee you undisputed access to Castle Magda in the morning. I'll even have a squad of Ranee commandos standing by to do any mopping up that may be required. It's about time you tradesmen learned that jobs like this were better left to professionals." darkness Hardun moved his murder contingent out to the plain. Because the whole episode was highly illegal in terms of Roget law, absolute secrecy was essential. For this reason the most opportune site, that between the Via Arens and the Space Canal, could not be used, for fear of chance observation. The alternative site was situated on the rising banks of the wilder country almost centrally between the Provincial Route and the Old Coast Road. Here there was almost no chance of observation during the hours of darkness, though by day it would have lain under the scrutiny of the watchtowers and the great keep of Castle Di Guaard. The rocket's trajectory thus lay slightljr over the northwest corner of Firsthill, but such was the precision of the apparatus that the chance of a premature fallout on the town was negligible. All day had been spent by Hardun's technicians in calculating the course coordinates and carefully calibrating the equipment to guarantee the pinpoint accuracy necessary to ensure that the deadly black canister was delivered precisely inside the confines of the castle and not dispersed across Thirdhill and its township. The position of the central point of the castle had been determined with micrometers by laser triangulation. A radar lock from the battle cruiser and a second one from a manpack station on the northern slopes of Secondhill gave the necessary references for faultless radio guidance of the missile from its mobile launcher to the castle. All this preparation had been leisurely and time-consuming. Speed was not important, but it was absolutely vital that the payload of sinister cargo fell cleanly inside the castle walls. The toxin had come from, a stockpile of horrifying weapons on Ranee. Its rate of diffusion under all conditions of still and moving air were known with great precision. The metering and dispersion could be controlled to a nicety to permit an almost exact spread of effect before destructive . oxidation by the atmosphere rendered it not only harmless but virtually undetectable. In a situation such as its release inside an isolated citadel like Magda the great walls themselves would serve somewhat to contain the dispersion, so that little, if any, chance existed of its affecting anyone outside the castle walls. Inside the walls its potential was conservatively estimated at seven thousand per cent overkill. By morning the best bacteriologists in the universe, while they might have their suspicions, would find it impossible to produce proof of the deliberate nature of the hitand-run plague whose one and only symptom was immediate death. The dispersion warhead was selfdestroying and would leave no incriminating remains. R en himself had no stomach at N. all for the project. Fortunately he had retained his resolve and refused to take any part in the venture. To protect the company's name -- in the event of any future investigation of the pending atrocity -- he had felt it necessary that he should establish an indestructible alibi by being seen in Anharitte at the time the act was committed. He therefore left the spaceport in advance of the murder party and traveled the Via Arena to pick up a crew of stave-bearers for his cushion-craft slightly before dusk. The garish ligroin flares of the trading stalls around the arena were well in evidence as he passed. Ren stopped and made a few purchases in order to establish his location at that time. The streets, as usual at that hour, were crowded with an aimless, nonchalant throng, none of whom seemed to appreciate any need for a clear and unobstructed highway. Mule carts, loaded to ridiculous heights with straw baskets, seemed eternally to be in his way and it took Ren nearly an hour to negotiate the cushion-craft the two kilometers from the Black Rock to the foot of the Trade Road. Ren bore this ordeal with fortitude, not daring to express his anxiety or his crying need to be in a location where more people would recognize him and be able to vouch for his presence on that particular evening. Fortunately the Trade Road was clearer and the craft was poled easily up the slopes and out to the broad brow of Firsthill. It was here that he first heard the explosions. In reactive shock he at first thought that the rocket must have misfired on its launcher. A second burst of noise, however, caused him to notice that the origin of the sounds was too far to the left to be coming from the provincial plains and was more probably coming from the guns of Di Guaard. Remembering the formidable chain-throwing cannon that Di Guaard maintained to cover IF the Aprillo Delta against the niythical Tyrene, Ren was able to make a guess that Hardun was in trouble. The vicious cannon atop the castle keep were being rapidly deployed against something to the west -- a fact he was able to confirm when his position enabled him to see the flashes of the guns themselves. It did not take much further conjecture to appreciate that the only target to be found on the plains at this hour was Hardun and his rocket projector and the deadly rocket with which he intended to wipe out the human -- not to mention humane -- population of Castle Magda. Ren reached his office chambers in a state of agonized indecision and suffering from an embarrassing lack of information. He was tempted to try to contact Alek Hardun via the microwave link, but there were dangers that some record of the conversation could implicate both himself and the company. On the face of it, the chances of the mad Delph Di Guaard's guns being able to seek out a target on the dark plain appeared negligible. However, the hand of the Imaiz in Castle Di Guaard -- and the awful coincidence of the rocket launcher on the plains under the speaking guns -- threw up possibilities too haunting to be ignored. H aving parked the cushioncraft, Ren made his way to the Lodge of the Pointed Tails, where discreet information was usually available. The lodge was deserted save for a solitary guardian, who appeared to think the clan was already out on Ren's own business and was surprised that the agent had no knowledge of the fact. He, too, had no certain idea of why Di Guaard's guns were firing, but promised to send a runner to contact the clan and to carry news back to Ren as fast as possible. Ren returned to his office and sat waiting for the information. It was fully an hour before Catuul Gras came to the door. "We were looking for you earlier, Tito. Sonel Taw sent a messenger for you. When he couldn't find you he had sense enough to come looking for me." "I was delayed at the spaceport," said Ren. "What was the message?" "That the Imaiz was expected in Castle Di Guaard tonight." "He is?" This put a new aspect on Hardun's venture with the rocket and Ren could not conceal his surprise. This was one point on which even Alek Hardun had miscalculated. "I laid plans for an immediate ambush," said Catuul Gras, "but the Imaiz slipped through." "Dion's alreidy there, then?" "Yes. He must have come around by the Provincial Route or the Old Coast Road. He came up Sidepath and was already in Castle Di Guaard before we got the news." "Was anyone with him?" "Only Zinder and Barii, I think." "Have you any idea what Di Guaard's firing at?" Catuul smiled. "I suspect the Imaiz put him up to it. It's said Dion carries strange tales about the Tyrene to Di Guaard. I'd wager the mad Delph is on top of his tower right now, firing at imaginary pirates and believing himself to be the saviour of Anharitte. Still, it's better that he fires across the plains. There's no one out there to hurt. Safer than firing at the shipping on the river." Ren felt cold and rather sick. Because of the atrocious nature of the weapon Hardun had taken out into the plain not even the Pointed Tails had been made party to the secret. The presence on Roget of such a potent outworld mass-murder instrument was not something that Ren cared to advertise -- nor would the knowledge have helped his liaison with the loyal but native clan whose services he so frequently employed. His one consolation was that without radar and ranging instruments, the mad Di Guaard was unlikely actually to hit the rocket launcher. More probably,? Hardun would abandon the venturcj and retire to the security of theI spaceport. However, if Hardun continued his plan and launched the bio-missile into Magda, then he would certainly fail to kill the one man on Roget who could unearth the truth behind the death of the garrison at Magda. The damage the Imaiz could do with that truth both on Roget and with the Galactic Federal Council could not only see an end to the freeport but could work against Freetrade right across the galaxy. The agent became aware that the scribe was watching him curiously. "What's on your mind, Tito?" "Nothing," Ren lied. "But so far our feud against the Imaiz has been a continuing series of failures. I can't afford more. We know the Imaiz is in Castle Di Guaard and that some time he's going to have to come out. I don't care what it costs, Catuul, or how many other societies you need to reinforce your own men, but I want the Imaiz ambushed -- and I want him killed. I want you to make it a point of honor that he never returns to Magda." Catuufs intelligent eyes were probing gently, but he made no comment on his conclusions. "As you wish, Tito. I'll make all the necessary arrangements. We'll IF seal Castle Di Guaard like a trap. No matter when Dion-daizan emerges there'll be good shafts and good steel waiting for him. If he ever sees Magda again it'h be solely due to his wizardry." Because there was nothing else he could usefully do Ren went to bed and tried to sleep. In this he was for many hours unsuccessful because he had no idea at all what pattern of news would greet him the next day. The possibilities ranged from with a range of complex permutations in between, many of which could involve him in being asked some acutely embarrassing questions. Even the certainty of failure would have allowed him to rest more easily, but he was currently immersed in a vacuum containing no answers, from which he dared not emerge to ask questions lest he betray his own foreknowledge. His surest method of defense was to profess complete ignorance of the events that took place that night, F inally, however, he must have slept for a while. He woke again to the first gray of dawn, feeling wretched and compelled by curiosity to cohtact the spaceport by the microwave radio link. As he dressed and dragged himself downstairs the call alarm of his transreceiver gave a clatter that made him stop in startled shock. It was many seconds before he could bring himself to lift the handset. "Tito?" "Alek -- what happened?" "Happened?" Hardun's tone alone foreshadowed the tale of disaster. "Di Guaard's cannon hit the launcher. The toxin dispersion canister went off prematurely and all six of the crew were dead of the plague inside five minutes. There was nothing I could do to help them." "What about yourself?" "I was lucky. I was following up in the radio unit truck. Di Guaard wrapped one of his chain-shots around the turret and I stopped to estimate the damage. By the time I got going again the launcher was on its side and the crew was trying to run. I reversed out fast and called out the medical team from the spaceport. They got there in twenty minutes, but when they knew what toxin we had in the canister they refused to go in. It wouldn't have been much use anyway. Once that toxin's out there's no protection against it and only time and exposure can counter it." "So we've a broken rocket launcher and six bodies out on the plain in full view of Di Guaard's watchtowers when the light gets better. Damn! Di Irons will flay us for this." "It's still pretty misty out here. I think we're covered until the sun comes over the hill. That gives us an hour yet to remove the mess. I've emergency tenders standing by, but we're trying to delay for as long as possible so that the toxin is fully broken down. We daren't risk losing any more men. What in the name of Jupiter possessed Di Guard to open fire like that?" "You don't know the hell of it," said Ren. "Even if you'd succeeded you'd still have been in trouble. The Imaiz wasn't at Magda. He was with Di Guaard. I suspect he was directing operations, having first explored the situation for himself. At a guess, he had all your preparations under observation -- and you drove straight into a trap." "That would figure," said Hardun sourly. "We were the victims of good espionage, perfect tingling and diabolical ranging accuracy I had the feeling that if the chain shots hadn't stopped us they would have been followed up by high explosives. As it was, the bombardment stopped shortly after the launcher got into trouble, as though they knew they had hit something vital. What are the chances of their having an infrared ranging camera at Castle Di Guaard?" "Every chance -- with the Imaiz behind them." "Tito, we've got to destroy this man -- and fast -- or we haven't a hope of retaining Anharitte as a freeport." "I've got him bottled inside Castle Di Guaard," said Ren. "Catuul's mustering a whole army and we'll keep them in position for as long as may be required. I don't myself think Dion will attempt to come out. I think he'll sit there and wait for us to go away." "Then this strikes me as an opportune time to try a reconnaissance raid on Magda. I have the commandos assembled, but I'll be too busy on the plain to take the lead. Could you handle it for me, Tito?" "I've no great objection to a reconnaissance. And it might produce some useful information." "Good. I'll have the men meet you at Magda Crossing in an hour's time." "I'll be there," said Ren and went thoughtfully in search of breakfast. close quarters that Castle Magda was the most formidable of all the fortresses on the three hills. It was larger than the installation of Di Guaard, yet planned with the same paranoiac approach -- the supposition that all men's hands were against it. The outer walls of IF massive granite blocks were probably solid for twenty meters at the base and rose sheer out of the waters of an unwelcoming moat. Even the dark streaks in the granite conspired to give the place an air of unassailable endurance. Whoever had planned and built Magda had been a genius in his own right. There was not an inch of the wall that was not overlooked by some flanking tower, and all possible angles of approach lay under a dozen points from which a hidden defender might safely fire. It was not even possible to tell if one were being observed, so dark and numerous were the potential defense positions. Although they were armed, the group of thirty-five Ranee commandos with Ren had strict instructions to do no more than test the defenses. They could indulge in a little provocation in order to test the viability of any attack hypothesis, but were to take no main offensive action unless instructed to do so by Ren. The agent had a secondary purpose in leading an open move against Magda -- he hoped that news of it would tempt the Imaiz to try and break out of Castle Di Guaard. He had sufficient faith in the Pointed Tails to think that Dion-daizan was unlikely to make his homeward journey alive. Castle Magda was situated on the highest point of Thirdhill, in a situation remote from the attendant township. It stood on a rocky plateau, three parts of the extremities of which gave way to nothing but the slopes of a broken and inhospitable hill. Working beneath the cover of the slopes, the small and wiry commandos were split into three groups, each with a local officer. Ren alone, a known figure in the territory, felt free to show himself openly. His presence on Thirdhill could not be concealed during daylight and he took advantage of this fact to make the survey he needed to complete the assessments of the high-level photographic data on Magda. The intention had been that, having completed his open evaluation of Magda's defense potential, he would rejoin the commandos for a mock attack to see what sort of response would be forthcoming from the garrison in the absence of the tmaiz. However, as h approached the main gatehouse he was more than a little disturbed to find the drawbridge down and the great gates open and apparently unguarded. Intrigued by this phenomenon, he ventured closer, the thought crossing his mind that in the absence of the master the attitude of the remaining garrison  seemed to be remarkably naive. Or was it? If the Imaiz had left Magda, knowing even a little of the threat on the plains, he might have evacuated his whole garrison to safety. In which case Hardun's murder weapon would have been completely without success even if it had been fired. The idea seemed credible. If the Imaiz s strength resided mainly in the super-training of his bondforce it would have been an unthinkable risk for him to have left them in the castle. The chances were that the garrison was now dispersed around the township of Magda, waiting for the master to come and assure them it was safe to return. Wary of a trap, Ren returned to the commandos behind the ridge and used their radio to contact his own office. His servant took the call and dispatched a runner to contact Catuul Gras. Instead of sending a message, Catuul himself came to answer. "Did you find anything, Tito?" "Yes. As near as I can tell, Magda's been evacuated. Not even a token guard is posted. Are you perfectly sure the Imaiz is still bottled up in Castle Di Guaard?" "Quite sure. Not even a rat could have got out of there unnoticed. We've had every inch of the walls under observation since the Imaiz went in. What had you in mind?" "The occupation of Magda. I've some of Hardun's men with me. It would be quite a joke if, tired of waiting for the Imaiz to return, the garrison came back to find me in residence." "Too risky," said Catuul gravely. "It's not like the Imaiz to leave the slightest thing to chance." "He would scarcely have had time to make preparations once he realized what was going on." "And what was going on?" Ren realized that he had said too much. The Pointed Tails had not been given the probable reason why the Imaiz had found it so necessary to visit Di Guaard. "We tricked him," said Ren obscurely. "That was why he left Magda. Risk it may be, but I'm going to try to get in there. I need to know what sort of facilities he has in Magda -- and if we can manage to hold it I think our battle's over. A lord dispossessed of his own castle won't find much following in Anharitte." "Let me withdraw some Pointed Tails and try to locate the whereabouts of the garrison first." "No. We don't have the time. And we daren't give the Imaiz the opportunity to escape from Di Guaard. You deal with the Imaiz and I'll try my luck with Magda. That way either or both of us has the chance to finish the fight for good." IF R en explained his proposition to h. the senior Ranee commando. He too had independently formed the opinion that Magda was unoccupied and nodded a ready acceptance of Ren's idea. The nien under him were battle-trained professionals, unused to sitting aside while a group of merchants and native warriors did the fighting for them. Whether or not Magda was defended, this was their chance to demonstrate what could uniquely be done by perfectly trained and equipped soldiery. Ren was warned to take no part in the initial excursion. He saw the wisdom of this as the small, wiry commandos went expertly into action, almost melting into the background as they moved up toward the sinister towers of the castle. Every move they made was one of marvelous precision, each man knowing what area he had to cover with his firepower and what need not concern him until death took his neighbor. With the swift and deceptive mobility of lizards they moved up the main approaches. Some ventured onto the drawbridge, some crossed it, others held careful reserve in the deadland beneath it. Each time they advanced they left nothing to chance. Had any resistance been offered it would at any time have found only a minimum of targets exposed. Finally the whole force entered the gateway, having assured itself that the entry tunnel was safe. The last one to enter was the senior commando, who signaled to Ren that it was safe for him to follow. Ren moved up quickly, feeling a sudden loneliness and isolation now that the others were no longer visible. The whole affair had this far been conducted in silence, but now he became extraordinarily aware of just how absolute that silence was. He quickened his pace and had entered the long, dark tunnel of the entrance, expecting to find some of the commandos waiting for him and slightly perturbed to find that they were not. A nagging suspicion warned him that it had all been far too easy. He was still telling himself this when the great portcullis gates fell at the ends of the tunnel, trapping him like a wild beast in a cage. For his commando companions who had passed on into the inner ward the end was swift. A high-level stun bomb burst above their heads. Blastwise its effect was negligible, but its biological shock effect, caught and concentrated between the great walls of stone, was a disaster. All thirty-five Ranch commandoes stiffened like posts and then crumpled to the ground. Those who had not been killed were severely concussed. Some of those who lived would be deaf for life. Others would have more or less permanent damage to the brain and other organs as a result of the shattering pressure and rarefaction of the stun bomb shockwave. Caught in his cage, Ren was dealt agony. He held his hands over his screaming ears, thought the blow at the pit of his stomach had been equally severe. Fortunately the narrow entrance to the tunnel and probably the gates themselves had protected him from all but a minor part of the shock. He rolled up and writhed on the dusty floor, oblivious to anything outside himself until some of the pain subsided. Then he climbed to his feet again, shaking his head to try and still the ringing in his ears and dimly thinking of escape. A brief examination of the portcullis, however, told him that his freedom, if gained, was going to have to be given by his captors. He could not arrange it for himself. T hrough the heavy fret of the inner portcullis he could see the occupants of Magda beginning to emerge. Some began the task of sorting the dead commandos from the living. Others examined the fabric of the building's walls for any damage that might have resulted from the blast. Ren looked miserably out upon the scene and wondered when and what sort of attention would be paid to himself. He had his blaster under his tunic but he was aware that to use it now could result only in his being destroyed like an unwanted dog. He might be able to make better use of its bargaining power in response to a more personal approach by his captors, but at this moment its function could be only a catalyst in an untidy and ignoble form of suicide. Finally what looked like a medical team began directing the careful removal of those who might possibly be saved. No one still paid any attention to Ren and, wondering if they even knew of his existence, he finally shouted to attract attention. Several of the slaves looked up and grinned in his direction. From this he deduced that his situation was known and that his incarceration was deliberate. It was many hours later that the inner portcullis was raised, and he emerged from the dark recess of the tunnel to come blinking into the rays of the late-afternoon sun. Neither a vicious guard nor a firing squad awaited him. Instead a figure, peacock proud in a wealth of glorious fabrics, held out her hand in a reserved mode of welcome. And this he found equally daunting. "Welcome to Magda, Agent Ren." IF "Zinder -- I -- " "You thought I was with Dion in Castle Di Guaard. Isn't that what you were going to say? To tell you the truth, we came back late last night." "We? Dion-daizan too?" Ren felt impelled to ask the question, though he did not know why he expected an answer. He found her openness very disconcerting. "And Barii." She was teasing him quietly. "There was quite a party on at Di Guaard last night. But we found it far too noisy. We left early." "Damn!" Ren looked ruefully at the dust on his shoes. "I must have at least three hundred men posted to stop you from leaving Firsthill. You people win every damn trick in the book. Did you know that was a crack Ranee commando team you. just destroyed? Competence is a tolerable sin, but omnipotence is a little out of fashion." Zinder turned her head to survey the scene of the recent carnage in the courtyard. "Not omnipotence. Agent Ren. Careful planning, good organization, fast communications, a sense of purpose and a modicum of luck. The usual ingredients needed to make a success of any major undertaking. We offer injury to those who try to injure us and ridicule for those who try to make us look ridiculous. We take an eye for a tooth and a life for an eye -- and if that seems immoral, remember that the quarrel is not of our choosing." Ren shrugged. "Then what do you intend to do with me?" She was slightly amused. "I think we'll give you some supper and set you free again." "I can't object to the arrangement, but the logic of it escapes me." "Does it? If you were we, whom would you rather have as an enemy -- yourself or the Butcher of Turais?" "Butcher of Turais?" "So they didn't tell even you! I'm not surprised. Alias Alek Hardun. He's a specialist in depopulating awkward places. The pogrom of Turais was only one of his accomplishments. It was no accident that he happened to have access to Ranee toxin. And that's not a hundredth part of the mass-murder equipment he carries on that bloodwagon of his. Frankly we think that you and Director Vestevaal have been deceived into accepting him so easily. And either you stop him or we'll be forced to stop him ourselves. If Hardun comes out on top even Roget could become another sparsely populated world." "I can't accept that statement at its face value," said Ren. "But I know the director's worried about him and is trying to take some action." "Trying's not enough. We were only able to stop Hardun below Di Guaard last night because we knew who he was and what he was capable of. But if he'd successfully destroyed Magda -- who could have stopped him then? Can't you imagine the pattern? Here a lord goes crazy, and there another forgets to wake from his sleep. Mutant rust decimates the harvest and the seat of central government is stricken by history's worst ever plague. Ranee drafts in a thousand 'disaster relief experts' and, to shore a crumbling economy, appoints a puppet government. Then it's all over save the persecution and the exploitation." "How much of this have you told Vestevaal?" "All of it and more. I think he was convinced. But he has his own job to do also -- and this we understand. He's a big man, your director -- but I wonder if he's big enough to fight the combined weight of the merchant worlds. Only the Freetraders can contain them, but they're divided and doubtful and prone to manipulation themselves. But come! Dion will explain this far better than I. Though I think you'd better let me have your sword and your blaster before you meet him." uncertainly back down the twisted Roads of Thirdhill. Zinder had taken his blaster, but had returned his sword at the gate, so that he had no fears for bis own protection. His uncertainty arose from the wealth of damaging information Dion-daizan had given him concerning Alek Hardun, the Butcher of Turais. Ren had come to Magda full of the certainty that he was indeed performing a necessary job. He now felt himself reduced to the status of a dupe and an unwitting accomplice of a trade-world cartel whose methods were becoming infamous throughout the universe. It made him wince to remember the number of times he had mentally applauded the news screen's announcements: Disaster teams from Combien and Ranee have been sent to the planet to offer immediate assistance... Once those teams arrived, he knew now, the disasters multiplied and the need for assistance changed to one of enforced dependence. On the other side of the coin, however, Hardun had warned Ren that the Imaiz would seek to divide his opposition and thereby ensure a continuance of his own schemes. This possible aspect of Dion's IF expert lecture had not been lost on Ren, though the documented evidence with which he had been presented was overwhelmingly in favor of the removal of Alek Hardun from the scene. Ren sensed that the Imaiz alone stood between Roget and the diabolical hands of Ranee and her agents. With this in mind, he was not at all sure that his own plans to damage the Imaiz were still justified. He reflected that Vestevaal, having become convinced of the truth of the situation, had travelled immediately offworld to carry the battle directly to the powerful Freetrade Council. Of one thing Ren became certain -- if he were again to have the strength of his own convictions Alek Hardun and his murder ship must go. Ahead of him, among the noises of the night, Ren heard a sound he knew. To the uninitiated it was the call of a nightbird. Ren knew it for the signal of the Pointed Tails. He answered it inexpertly and in a few moments Gras was at his side. "What happened, Tito?" the scribe asked anxiously. "We had word that things went wrong at Magda and that you were captive." "I was captive. But Dion-daizan decided to let me go again -- I think because he likes the sporting nature of our opposition." Ren's sentence ended in heavy irony. Catuul Gras looked at him as though transfixed by a blade. "Dion-daizan in Magda? But he can't be -- " "He's there all right. So are Zinder and Barii. I've just taken supper with the three of them." A sudden anger overtook him. "Are they smaller than mice that they passed your watch at Di Guaard and were waiting to trap me when I arrived?" In the dim light the scribe's expression was one of puzzlement followed by a sudden relaxation. "Then you'll admit now that Dion's a wizard. It's not possible for anything to have escaped from Di Guaard without our knowing. Not only did we have the castle and the exits under surveillance, but we also had men on the routes and river crossings. If Dion reached Magda he must have fiown like a bird." The instant absurdity of the suggestion was soon overthrown by a new line of speculation in Ren's mind. "I wonder if you're right, Catuul. He couldn'Lhave flown like a bird, but he could have flown nonetheless. In which direction was the wind last night?' "There was not much wind, but the breeze persists from the southwest from now until the heavy weather breaks. Does that give you an idea?" "I have a suspicion. Dion couldn't have used a conventional aircraft because you'd have heard the noise of engines. But if he'd had some sort of balloon available he could have used it in relative safety after nightfall. The natural winddrift would have carried them toward Thirdhill or at least into Magda province. And the river lights would have given them an indication of when it was safe to land." "What's a balloon?" asked Catuul. "A device that figures almost uniquely in ancient Terran history. It's a bag of gas or hot air -- which is lighter than the air in which it floats. A big balloon can carry jsl basket containing several people. It could have lifted the three of them out of Castle Di Guaard and if you weren't looking for it you'd never have seen it go. That way the Imaiz could have escaped all your traps without resorting to wizardry. It only needs the application of a few physical principles and a bit of technical know-how." "Wizardry or technical knowhow, it's all the same to me," said Catuul. "What you call wizardry are the things that are done which are beyond the limits of what your education insists is possible. But the same applies to me. So the difference between our points of view is one of degree, not kind." "Point taken, Catuul. But so far the Imaiz has done nothing beyond the comprehension of the averagely educated outworlder. This makes it reasonably certain that he's not a native of Roget, and various historical associations about his schemes strengthen my belief that he's a Terran." T 'HE scribe was searching the darkness behind them, looking for something. Occasionally he would answer the low-pitched trade-calls that floated through the darkness. Finally he turned back to Ren and spoke. "Hardun's men who were with you -- weren't they released too?" "No. All thirty-five were either killed or injured." "I warned you it was dangerous." The scribe's face was grim. "The Imaiz never takes chances. And this fetches a point which we must settle between us, friend Tito. There was nothing in our contract about your carrying the fight using outworld soldiery. Nor about the use of longrange outworld weapons. If we were to place this fact before the Elders of the clans they would relieve the Pointed Tails of any further obligations to you -- nor would you obtain clan service elsewhere. The Elders would never consent to a clan's being party to IF any out world scheme of aggression. I'm disappointed in you, Tito. I'd thought you understood us better." Ren stopped walking and turned to face the scribe squarely. "I do understand you and I admit I'm in error. But circumstances overtook me. Initially I was mislead as to the reasons Alek Hardun came to Roget. He came under the guise of an advisor, but now appears to have independent operating status. By the time I was aware of this I found I had no power to stop him. The director has gone to the council to have the matter set to rights." "Yet it was you who took the soldiers to Magda," objected Catuul. "True. They were available and the exercise was intended purely as a reconnaissance. But when I believed Magda to be abandoned I thought that by one decisive move I might shorten the whole battle. That was a classic blunder that cost Doctor Hardun thirty-five men." "I'd not have expected the price to be less." The scribe was critical. "Had the Imaiz not dealt with them -- there are two hundred clansmen from all over the provinces around us now who would have made sure the Ranee men never left Thirdhill." "What?" Ren was aghast. "Do you really feel so strongly about them?" "We may have our internal disputes in Anharitte, but armed outworld interference transcends any normal act of feud. Were it not so, even Roget could fall under some outworld yoke. Think about it, Tito. You'll see why it has to be so. And your part in this has been a cardinal transgression." "I can't deny it. It's been a sad error both in judgment and in policy. Hardun's equipment and his tactics have become an embarrassment and were no part of my original intention. And I'm even more unhappy to have broken faith with your society." "But in the light of today's expedition, how much reliance can we place on your word. Think carefully before you answer -- I may yet have to speak for you to the Elders of the clans." "The Elders must decide as they will. And you, too, Catuul. You know me better than most and must decide for yourself. My rejection of Alek Hardun is a personal inability to support his views on the cheapness of human life. I can't say otherwise even to save the spaceport or my job, which depends on it." "That's precisely what I wanted to hear," said the scribe. "But I've been less than frank with you. The Elders have already discussed the matter in council. They gave two decisions. The first is that all society services will be withdrawn from outworlders until Hardun and his ship have been removed -- " "And the second?" "That you were to be killed unless I personally was satisfied with your intention and your integrity." "And have you come to that decision?" Ren felt his sword hang heavy at his side. "Of course." Catuul's smile broadened in the dim light from the night sky. "Or you would have been dead within minutes of leaving Castle Magda. Come, friend Tito, we have your cushion-craft waiting on the far side of the crossing." x. Hardun's voice reached the peak of incredulity. "It wouldn't have mattered if they had been a hundred," said Ren. "The Imaiz is more than a match for anything you can put up. Frankly, your tactics have become a liability. I've sent a spacegram to the Freetrade Council expressing the opinion that if you're allowed to remain on Roget the spaceport facility will certainly be lost." "You did what?" Hardun's new peak of disbelief was suddenly tempered by relief. "Now I know you're joking, Tito. I see copies of every spacegram transmitted from here. I know damn well you've sent no such thing." "You used to see copies," corrected Ren. "The Freetrade Council has already instructed the spaceport staff not to cooperate with you and they're leaning heavily on Ranee to have you pulled out. I know of this because I held a personal conversation with the director at Freetrade Central. And you won't receive a recording of that either. He confirmed everything I'd learned about the Butcher of Turais." "Turais? That old propaganda line -- " Hardun was vehement. "If you'd believe that you'd believe anything." "I would believe anything about you, Alek. That's why I complained to the council. The urgency of your removal can't be overstressed. They're to hold a debate on it. I imagine the result will be to apply some tough sanctions against Ranee until they're forced to order you out. I don't imagine that'll make you very popular with your masters, either. So I'm advising you now to get offworld before the storm really breaks." "I'll see you in hell first, Tito. I wouldn't dream of moving a centimeter unless I get specific instructions from Ranee Politico." "Very conformative. But I wasn't asking you to go -- I was warning IF you not to stay. Your departure is imminent. Either you decamp of your own volition or rjin the very probable risk of being removed, perhaps violently, by someone like the Imaiz, And if that happens Ranee will be spared much loss of face -- so I don't imagine they'll grieve unduely." "The risk is negligible. It's a complete certainty there's nothing on Roget that can harm an armed battle cruiser at dock." "I don't share your certainty. The societies have withdrawn all services until your ship has been removed. The Imaiz not only has no opposition, but can probably acquire substantial assistance if he requires it. And I don't think Di Irons is going to miss the point for very long -- in which case the planetary government will also be involved. So the opposition ranged against you runs from Dion-daizan through the Freetrade Council up to possible intervention by the Galactic Federation. If you get offworld now you might just about save your own skin." "You're either a brave man or a complete fool," said Hardun savagely. "I've killed men before for offering a whole lot less provocation. Your outlook's so far adrift from the realities of galactic life that you're really too pathetic to be true." "I've been around, Alek. And wherever I've been I've looked in depth as well as at the surface. It's not a perspective you'd understand, but it means I can back my judgment against yours with a reasonable chance of being right." Ren turned on his heel and stalked out of the room. It was obvious that his attempt to persuade Hardun to go voluntarily had met with no sort of success. Ren's knowledge of spaceport security measures -- and of the detection and defense capabilities of a docked battle cruiser -- did not incline him to place much faith in the idea that the Imaiz would have a greater success by his own methods. They would probably have to wait until the pressure on Ranee brought about an official recall. Ren shuddered. In the meantime Hardun could act without restriction -- and if he accepted that his period of opportunity was limited, the next twenty-four hours could be a very crucial time in Anharitte's history. imagination affecting his interpretation of the scene or it might have been some social reflection of the societies' decision, but Ren had the distinct impression of unease in the city as he returned. Theinarkets were quiet, almost deserted. The streets were far less crowded than usual and his own office was deserted and dead. His bondservants had been withdrawn by the Pointed Tails -- whose legal property they were -- and the normally busy household was at a standstill. Ren was even forced into the extreme of doing his own shopping when he wished to eat -- and the preparation of his solitary meal was a process which caused him to think seriously about his next move. He could not back down on his stand against Hardun, nor could he reasonably do more than he had done to secure the latter's departure. There appeared to be no basis for any sort of pact with the Imaiz that would not be compromising later -- and in any case, Ren felt that he had nothing of interest to offer. The best mode of release from the impasse would undoubtedly be the swift intervention by the Freetrade Council acting on Ranee. Ren could only hope that the council would successfully act before Di Irons began to examine too closely the reasons behind the Pointed Tails' decision to withdraw their services. If the prefect were to learn the truth about the rocket launcher on the plains he would have no option but to start a chain of protests that must involve the planetary government and ultimately the Galactic Federation itself. Di Irons, then was the main problem for the moment. Idly Ren speculated on the strategy for a successful pattern of bluff if the prefect's sure nose for trouble should lead him loo close to the truth. The answers were not encouraging. He therefore decided that this would be a prudent time to visit some of the more distant of the company's trading installations. By this ruse he could probably delay a confrontation until the removal of Alek Hardun was a accomplished fact. Accordingly he packed in preparation for an early start and retired exhausted to his bed. series of explosions -- broke him savagely out of his sleep. He awoke in alarm as multiple flashes of light glared in window-patterned squares of whiteness from the walls of his room. The thunder followed swiftly. Ren leaned back, prepared to listen to the storm -- until it slowly filtered into his consciousness that there was no such thing as a storm on Roget. In an instant of panic he flung himself from his bed and put his head out of the window. The night sky was ringing as yet another great explosion from the direction of the IF Without pausing to dress Ren ran downstairs to the microwave communicator. As he turned on the stair the largest explosion yet made the building vibrate. Only the distance in the quality of the sound made him certain that the explosion was at the spaceport. The nature and effect of so violent a blast at that point of origin was something he scarcely dared to consider. Although he called both on the service and emergency frequencies, he could obtain no reply from the spaceport control. This silence was unprecedented and suggested a state of crisis so acute that even the information backup for the Disaster Center was unobtainable. This convincingly fitted the scale of the catastrophe he had deduced from the intensity of the shockwaves. It was credible that as much as a quarter of the spaceport installation had been destroyed. On an undeveloped world like Roget, where civil emergency services were virtually nonexistent, the entire work of disaster containment and rescue work would have to be handled by the spaceport's own personnel. Ren dressed hurriedly. He did not even need light in his rooms. The sky, made bright by the angry redness of a major spaceport fire, provided more than adequate illumination. Knowing that his training would enable him to do little in the way of offering practical assistance, his intention on reaching the street door had been merely to walk to the limits of Firsthill in order to gain a better view. As he descended the steps, however, two armed watchmen flung themselves hurriedly across his path. "Agent Ren, you're not permitted to leave." "What do you mean?" "Prefect Di Irons' orders. You're to be confined to your chambers until he's free to deal with you." "But why the hell? This is no doing of mine." "That you must discuss with him. But you'd better be convincing. Nights such as this were never known in Anharitte before you made trouble with the Imaiz, " Ren allowed himself to be escorted back into the chambers, where the watchmen maintained an uncommunicative guard. When the light of the morning was well advanced he heard other noises in the house and soon guessed that his bondservants had been returned and were picking up their duties as though no interruption of service had occurred. Shortly his breakfast tray was placed before him. His guards were completely ignored. By such signs he knew that Alek Hardun had been wrong in his certainty that no force on Roget was capable of dealing with an armed space cruiser at dock. It was a fair bet that about a third of the spaceport installation had gone with it. By some ingenious piece of wizardry a way had been found through all the alarms and defenses and the Imaiz had made good his promise. unusual echo of horses hoofs clattered to the door of his chambers. The sound was rare because the great horses of Roget, fully as large as the ancient Terran dray-horses, were unpopular beasts on the crowded roads of the city. They had their place at the great provincial estates, but for town work they were used mainly by the civil powers as a symbol of authority. A message from Di Irons required Ren to join the cavalcade to the spaceport. The reins of the great saddled and bridled beast were flung toward him with the instruction that he was to mount. Ren's riding experience was little and the size of his steed was daunting. He said as much, but his protests were dismissed. "Then here's your chance to learn. Agent. The prefect won't wait." Somehow he managed to mount. He sat unhappily astride the great beast whose back seemed as broad and as warm as the bed Ren had vacated during the night. Having mastered the art of staying on top of the moving animal, he next faced the problem of control. He found himself assisted by the fact that the giant horse appeared to know exactly what was required of it in terms of destination and speed. It obediently followed the messenger and two others through the streets of Firsthill, out on to the Trade Road, down the slopes and on to the Via Arena. The messenger rode hard, without pausing for further explanation. The fact that his escort rode mainly ahead of him led Ren to suspect that his presence was required for a constructive purpose, rather than a punitive one. They soon came in sight of the spaceport, from which, even in daylight, the bright flames from burning fuel tanks showed crimson under the vast columns of smoke. Ren's initial surprise at being conveyed in so unusual a manner was soon dispelled as he realized that carriage by the giant horses were certainly the fastest means of transport available. Although cushion-craft were able to produce a better turn of speed on the open stretch of the Via Arena, the slower working of the craft in the city gave ample advantage to horses. His present journey was accomplished IF in well under half an hour. Bruised and sore, Ren clung frantically to the saddle horns of the mammoth animal and only fell when he attempted to dismount. XV sterner than ever, waited for Ren to pick himself out of the dust, then strode away, indicating that the agent should follow. Ren followed painfully, wondering if his encounter with the horse had done something irrevocable to his legs. Their path took them broadly across the spaceport, most of which was obscured by wide trails of drifting smoke. The prefect stopped when finally they neared the number-five landing bowl where the Ranee battle cruiser had been. Ren caught his breath as the scale of the catastrophe became apparent. The tall ship had been totally demolished and the parts further shattered. Even the single components seemed destroyed. Only a very small part of the ship's total mass was still evident. The rest of it had presumably been vaporized or dispersed over many thousands of meters of terrain. Even the nearly indestructible wolframie of the landing bowl was heavily cratered as though from a major war. The picture was one. of violence multipled by violence. It was a job most thoroughly done. "How did it happen?" asked Ren. Di Irons put on a thunderous scowl. "Pictor Don has a theory that the ship was toppled by an s.h.e. charge placed in the vicinity of one of the ship's stabilizers. Her engines then exploded and that touched off her magazine. Unfortunately she was heavily overarmed and some of the later explosions took away a fair proportion of the spaceport buildings. I've no doubt we'll be receiving a detailed account of the damage from the spaceport Disaster Control center in due course. That's why I wanted you here. You're going to give me an independent view of how it was done, who did it -- and why it was necessary." "Me? But I know nothing about it. I was asleep at the time." "That's no excuse," said Di Irons. "I'll wager you know a great deal about it. Pretense will save you nothing. Let's be in no doubt as to where you stand. In the past twenty-five hours I've uncovered sufficient facts about you and the activities with which you've been involved to have you declared persona non grata on just about every civilized planet in the universe. Not only that, but for default of various laws on Roget under Space Conventions I could encourage our government to make claim for damages that would not only bankrupt your company but would cripple another half-dozen of their Freetrade associates. "Having warned you to follow the advice of your society on how to conduct a feud with the Imaiz, you have no conceivable defense for you actions. So do you now volunteer to answer my questions or do I have to break both you and the company?" "What exactly do you want to know?" asked Ren unhappily. "This battle cruiser -- it must have carried enough armaments to start a major war. Was it put here by the Freetrade Council?" "No. It was donated by Ranee, ostensibly as a technical backup facility. K don't think the majority of the council was aware that it was anything else." "So why did it possess a fully equipped war potential?" "It was one of Ranee's so-called 'disaster ships' -- though I've come to suspect that their function is to cause disasters not to alleviate them." "Didn't you know of this when you asked for it?" "I didn't ask for it. It just arrived. When I found out what sort of equipment it carried I complained to Director Vestevaal. He went immediately to Freetrade Central to demand its withdrawal." "Hmm!" Di Irons nodded thoughfully. "And I take it that somebody couldn't wait to see it go peacefully. Your friend the Imaiz, perhaps?" "I've no evidence," said Ren. "But he knew it for what it was and its demolition has a characteristic thoroughness." "That's agreed," said Di Irons, looking around at the widespread damage. "And in the circumstances I don't think we shall hear much from Ranee about her loss, especially if Director Vestevaal's already protesting about it at Freetrade Central. But more than the ship went here. A lot of highly valuable spaceport installation went with it. When the Galactic Spaceports commission learns of it the repercussions are going to be grave. I'm going to be under pressure to produce sopie good answers. Frankly, I don't have the expertise in outworld technology to produce those answers. But you do. And you've the additional advantage of knowing both the Imaiz and the pattern of life in Anharitte, neither of which an outworld investigator would know. Therefore I'm you." "What sort of bargain?" "We both suspect it was the Imaiz who destroyed this ship. I want to know how much evidence IF against the Imaiz could be gathered by an outworld enquiry into the disaster." "You choose your words most carefully. Prefect." "In this instance I've a good reason o do so." 'And what have I to gain froni the exercise?" "Give me some good answers, Ren, and I might forget to file any charges against yourself or the company." terms don't give me much option. But I'll need information. How cooperative can I expect to find the spaceport staff?" "They themselves are in default for permitting an armed warcraft to remain docked at their facility beyond the recognized refueling time. Therefore their careers are equally in my hands. I suspect you'll find them very cooperative indeed." emergency commander spread his hands resignedly. "I can assure you, Tito, that outside sqbotoge is quite out of the question. Nobody could have got through without detection. Because of the permanent danger to personnel around the landing bowls the whole area is monitored by radar. The radar overscan extends well beyond the spacert perimeter. The computer constantly oversees all activity in the area and throws up alarm signals for any potentially dangerous or unusual event." "What other defenses have you?" "Mainly the fences. The first and second fences form a corridor manned by a patrol with guard dogs. Then there's an electified fence inside that and the inner one's a barbed barrier. It would take a very clever person indeed to get through that lot." "We happen to suspect a very clever person. What I'm trying to establish is -- did he indeed get through or was the blast an accident? What about the gates?" "Only two -- both remotely controlled and responding only to the controllers direct orders. He has to satisfy himself by computer verification of ident cards and the vision link that the person asking for admission has the necessary authority to enter." "And did he give clearance to anyone at a time reasonably close to the blowup?" i"No.There were no admissions for at least four hours before the blowup occured." "Then it would have to be through the fence. Has the whole perimeter been checked?" "Electrical checks have been carried out. Nothing was found. Physical examination of all the wire on the perimeter will take a little time." "Then let me have the answers as soon as you can," said Ren. "If somebody penetrated that fence I want to know how. Did your radar scan tell you nothing?" "The watch computer signaled nothing unusual." "How critical is the watch computer?" "Sufficient for normal purposes." "But does it discriminate between different types of radar returns?" "Necessarily so. Frequently animals from the plains stray near to the outer fence and trigger a minor alert. Also some birds and small animals actually live out on the bowls. The computer has been programed to reject the movement of small creatures and to respond mainly to the approach of something the size of a cushion-craft or one of the tracked tenders." "Then how does it function for personnel protection on the bowls?" "It's spectrum filtered to give maximum response to metallic objects while remaining relatively insensitive to organics and nonmetals. Any crews working on the bowls will naturally be wearing thermo-reflective suits and these give a very good radar return." "So it is possible for an unsuited man to have walked across the bowls without the computer's classifying him as an object to be reported?" "It's possible, but I see the point as rather academic. Nobody could damage a battle cruiser with less than about a hundred kilos of s.h.e. explosive. I'd seriously doubt that somebody broke the fence and carried that weight across the bowls on foot. Perhaps a trained man might do it -- but I don't believe it happened. I think they'd have had to use a vehicle -- and if they'd done so the computer would have spotted it and sounded the alarm." "Nevertheless," said Ren, "I'd like to know if there was anything on the radar scan below the computer's indicating threshold. Do you tape a record?" "Of course." Pictor Don shrugged his shoulders. "I'll have a replay set up in the operations room. If you want my opinion -- it's a waste of time." "What are you looking for, Ren?" The stern and thoughtful prefect was shadowing Ren closely, listening to every syllable of his investigation. "I'd have thought Don's evidence that there was no penetration of the fence was pretty conclusive." "Not conclusive enough. If it did happen we need to know now, not have it thrown up during some outIF world inquiry. All defenders and all defense systpms have blind spots. If someone has the wit and the ability to figure just where these blind spots are they form a positive advantage to the attacker. A bit of ingenuity coupled with the right know-how should produce a method of attack the defenders won't expect because they know it to be impossible. Our prime suspect in this case is a recognized master of impossible events and is also a considerable technician. I can't see that dogs, a few wire fences and a radar scan need be any deterrent to the Imaiz "There's been some talk of rockets," said Di Irons. "Couldn't Dion have used one without having to penetrate the fence?" "He may well have the capability at Magda, but that wasn't the way it was done. A I see the evidence, the ship was toppled, as you've already said, by an s.h.e. charge placed under a stabilizer. But that couldn't in itself have initiated the entire chain of disasters that followed. Almost certainlv the ship was toppled upon a further line of explosive charges, and the direction of the ship's fall was calculated to insure that those charges would do the maximum damage. It was an exercise in fine mathematics, undertaken by someone who had a very clear idea of the working layout of such a battle cruiser." "From which you conclude?" "That the operation was carried out by a competent outworlder -- someone familiar with space constructions. And it would have taken time and careful measurement to place those charges accurately. Whoever did it must have worked on the bowl under cover of darkness and had a pretty shrewd idea that he would not be picked up by the radar monitor. That's an assembly of knowledge and skills very difficult to match. I think that Dion must be a well-trained saboteur -- in addition to his other talents." vinced. "If I understand Pictor Don correctly it would have taken at least a hundred kilos of explosive just to topple the ship. If you're now saying that further charges were laid -- they must add up to a considerable extra weight of explosive. All this had to be moved through the fence and brought across at least half a kilometer of landing bowls -- without detection." "I know very little about explosives," said Ren. "But I'd doubt that less than two hundred kilos of s.h.e. would have done the trick." "And brought in without using a vehicle? Do you suppose they used mules or magic?" The prefect was sarcastic. "I don't know how it was done, few answers on the below-threshold level of the radar records." The radar overscan, untrimmed by the computer, reflected considerable movement of wildlife outside the perimeter fence. The false alarms would have been continual had not spectrum filtering been employed. In contrast, the casual movements of spaceport personnel and vehicles were easily distinguishable by the heightened radar responses to the various metallic substances they carried. It was at about this level of discrimination that the computer operated. Pictor Don replayed the scan at its original speed for the two hours prior to the blowup. He and Ren concentrated fully on the unedited replay screen, while Di Irons fretted in the background, unable to comprehend the screen's symbolism. All of the first hour of the replay and half of the second passed without producing any information of obvious interest. Suddenly Ren gave a cry. ""Southeast corner -- behind the shadow of the freighter on pad eight -- something is moving on the bowls." There was no doubt of the fact. Emerging from the radar shadow of the freighter, already well within the wire, two images sped across the bowls toward the doomed ship. The radar responses were weak, well below the computer's preset threshold. The moving forms gave no clue as to their form or composition. Pictor Don ran marker blips across the screen to measure the velocity of the moving points. He frowned at the resulting calculation. "Slightly up on fifteen kilometers an hour," he said in puzzlement. "Men running perhaps, but certainly not men carrying two hundred kilos of deadweight." '"Perhaps horses?" asked Di Irons. Don shook his head. '"Not enough mass for horses." "Is there much metal present?" asked Ren. "Some, but its not very distinct. More like a grid than a solid. Certainly not enough mass to be a vehicle. The computer wouldn't be able to distinguish between it and the oxide glaze on the bowls themselves." "Then what the devil can have carried them across the field at a speed like that?" "Did you ever think of wizardry?" Di Irons had the faintest smile of mischief around his grizzled mouth. "I don't care for wizardry," said IF Ren. "There's a physical explanation for all this. Dion-daizan's no more of a wizard than I am." In less than three minutes the two dots had moved from the perimeter across the intervening half kilometer to the foot of the threatened Ranee ship. Their passage must have been effectively silent -- they appeared to make no effort to avoid the lock-watch who would have been aroused by the sound of an approaching vehicle. "Were they invisible also?" asked Di Irons. When the dots stopped under the radar shadow of the ship the screen picture became confused by the sheer mass against which the returns were being measured. In less than a minute, however, the dots separated themselves and streaked back toward the perimeter fence, moving even faster than before. Soon they were lost behind the shadow of the freighter on pad eight and the scene closed down to an apparent stillness as the time approached the moment of blowup. "Well, we still don't know what got in, but at least we know where." said Ren. "Let's go and take a closer look." where the bulk of the freighter on pad eight stood squarely between them and the damaged radar tower, Ren examined the wire. There was little wonder the break had not been detected before. Had he not had a suspicion of what to look for, he would not have found it for himself. The wires had been cut to a level sufficient to admit something not much larger than a man. Every single strand had subsequently been neatly buttwelded to form a virtually invisible repair. Any competent technician could have done it -- given the right equipment and the necessary time. "But we had guard-dog patrols between the outer fences," objected Pictor Don, when the fact was pointed out. "Who mans the patrols?" asked Ren. "One of the socal societies -- very reliable." "Perhaps! But for most of the night there was a withdrawal of society services from all matter affecting outworlders. In effect, there was a period when the Imaiz could move unopposed on whatever course he chose. He might even have been able to enlist society aid. I'm reasonably certain that if he chose to cut these wires last night the dogs would have been conventiently elsewhere." "But why should the Societies cooperate with him in this way." Pictor Don was perplexed. "Because," said Ren, "Dion's probably the only force standing between Roget as it is -- and eventual domination by Ranee. I know this. The societies know it and I suspect my Lord Di Irons knows it also. I may be an outworlder, but I've heard enough about Ranee's mailed fist in the universe to know that, given a free choice, I would have been out there last night holding that wire open for Dion to enter." Ren turned away from the wire and wandered into the scrub edging the surrounding plain. Shortly he came back and addressed Di Irons. "Well, Prefect, I'm ready to answer your questions." Di Irons compressed his mouth under his beard. The eyes that met Ren's were full of comprehension, edged with a slight smile. " What about that radar record?" asked the Prefect. "What radar record? It must have been destroyed in the blowup." "And the wire?" "Could never have been disturbed. Technology on Roget obviously isn't far enough advanced to permit a gas-shielded electric butt-weld to be made." "And the blowup?" "Who knows," said Ren. "Accidents can always happen on an overarmed man-of-war. I think the point should be made most strongly to the Spaceports Commission. They must be encouraged to take far greater care of ships when operating on foreign soil. Otherwise it might prove inconvenient to have a spaceport so near Anharitte." "And we can positively rule out outside intervention?" "I can think of no way in which a man or perhaps two men with neither beast nor vehicle could travel half a kilometer in three minutes with at least two hundred kilos of dead weight. Such an idea smacks of wizardry." "Which we all know doesn't exist," said Di Irons. "You know, Tito, I've a feeling I've misjudged you. You've a depth of perception I would not have associated with your mercenary profession. My report will follow the lines of your summary -- and you and Pictor Don can sign a testimony to its accuracy. You've proven to me that there could have been no outside intervention. But strictly off the record -- and since you don't admit Dion's a wizard -- how do you imagine the thing could have been done?" Ren nodded and turned out towards the brush. "Come over here. Do you see those marks in the dust? What do you suppose made those?" "That's very strange. I don't think I've seen the like of them beIF fore. Do you suppose snakes -- " "I imagine they're snake tracks," said Ren, tongue in cheek. 'But they bear a strong resemblance to the tracks of a device I once saw used on Terra." Di Irons straightened as a society runner approached. The man had come around the perimeter from the gate to hand him a message form. The fellow's exertions underscored the urgency with which he had been dispatched. The prefect scanned the paper anxiously and handed it to Pictor Don. Both men seemed tremendously upset. "Trouble?" asked Ren. The form was passed to him. With mounting disbelief he read the message. link with Freetrade Central," said Ren angrily when he had absorbed the shock. "I'll get the director to blow this scheme apart right from the top -- at Galactic Federation Headquarters if necessary." "That may not be easy," said link to anywhere is routed through the relay terminal on Ranee." "Damn!" Ren looked across the blasted spaceport where even now the smoke trails persisted over the scene of devastation. The enormity of Ranee's fabrication made his head spin, but his heart was seized with the cold clamp of fear. If Alek Hardun's murder wagon had been regarded as a good will vessel Ren hated to think what thirty openly operating disaster ships would bring. Despite his increasing respect for the resourceful Dion-daizan he knew that salvation this time depended on the rapid acquisition of an armed spacefleet. Presumably not even the wizard of Anharitte could produce that. Or could he? At the moment Ren knew only from the trackmarks in the dust that the Imaiz possessed at least two bicycles. runs into the general type of reader the first cliche put to him usually is: "Where do you get your crazy ideas?" This question seems to reflect a recognition of the importance of ideas in the field. The answer I find most satisfactory, incidentally, is that I steal them -- which is at least partially true, since we all depend oh each other to stir up our own thinking.  It's difficult to say which element has the greater importance in a story -- the idea or its execution. Neither can stand wholly by itself. Some of the early science fiction consisted of almost pure idea and featured little in the way of execution. Today many of the books I read seem high on execution and low in ideas. Certainly few demonstrate more than a variation of a common idea. But good books can be written with an unprecedentedly smooth execution of an old idea. An outstanding book must, however, provide at least a fresh treatment of a good idea and show good execution. Examples of such rare, great books are Ursula Le Guin's Left Hand of Darkness and Sturgeon's More Than Human, I've just had the chance to see what happens to one of my ideas when it has been executed by three other writers. The occasion is The Day The Sun Stood Still, edited by Robert Silverberg (Thomas Nelson, #; also available shortly from the Science Fiction Book Club for  I .#). Silverberg asked me to do a twopage idea around which other writers could develop long novelettes. I decided to suggest that a future religious leader might persuade most of the world to pray together for a sign. The sign was vouchsafed: for a night and day (less #x#" sidereal day) the Earth moved not around the sun, neither did it rotate -- no other changes allowed. The question then was: What kind of world might come about if faith were replaced by certain knowledge? Poul Anderson, Gordon R. Dickson and Robert Silverberg were the writers assigned to handle the question. I was curious as to what such top authors had done with it and began reading eagerly. Strangely, it seemed to me at first they did very little with the question. They seized as their themes the Joshuan miracle itself rather than the eventual world that might have resulted from it. And nobody made any use of the plant that God (or Whoever) seemed to leave a clue of duodecimal nature. Anderson's A Chapter of Revelation deals with a scientist and an ordinary little man who becomes the leader to start people praying together. He postulates a background of approaching nuclear war. The miracle of the sign halts this -- but the aftermath for the two characters is grim and confusing. To Anderson, apparently, the result of a Joshuan miracle is the collapse of all values. In his post-miracle world neither science nor religion seems to be viable. Silverberg is equally concerned with collapsing values. In his Thomas the Proclaimer he deals with the results for the prophet, the man who called for the sign and was. answered. Thomas was a disreputable revivalist, egged on by Kraft, his press agent and daemon. While the world about reacts to the shock, Thomas has to turn inward to see himself. And when he does he finds that Kraft is still with him. This is a bitter epic of a soul that can not accept knowledge any more than it earlier could wholly accept faith. My own personal favorite is Dickson's Things Which Are Caesars. In some ways Dickson threw away more of the original sketch than did either of the others. But in one essential I feel he looked deeper into it. He apparently decided that, given both Joshua and the current leader, the phenomena described were periodic -- the sign was not merely given once, but regularly. He chose to have the miracle before the current one appear about a thousand years ago. Then he picked a man who had survived that previous miracle as his major character. Here the miracle is produced by a leader we do not meet. This doesn't matter. What matters is the second chance given to his Ranald, the ancient Viking who has been a later Wandering Jew, in effect. Is this to be his redemption? Well, that seems to depend. Dickson sets it all up in a sort of Woodstock, where people have come to wait for the sign instead of to listen to rock groups. His cast of characters is rich and well integrated -- the whole world is resolved in a half-dozen characters who assemble around Ranald's campfire. All at first seem more interesting than the rather detached Ranald -- yet Dickson's execution is done surely and well, to leave us with Ranald as our Everyman. I don't think it's a great book -- in fact, I don't think any book by three writers against a similar background can be great. For three men, working with an idea which did not germinate for years in their own minds, to produce three great stories would be asking for another sort of miracle. But I enjoyed the bool immensely. impressed with Gordon R. Dickson's execution of his own ideas in The Pritcher Mass (Doubleday, #). This one deals with various aspects of psi powers. I don't believe in such powers, but I see no reason why they can't be the basis of excellent fiction. However, there does seem a tendency to let the normal rules of tight plotting loosen with such a theme and I'm afraid Dickson's story shows that tendency. His basic idea is strong. Earth has become so polluted that men cannot survive outside its enclosed cities. Any man left outside is soon destroyed by a fungus growth in his lungs. No remedy has been found for the disease. Sooner or later even the cities will be nonviable. Man's only hope is to get to the stars. He has no physical means to do so, but has developed something called the Pritcher Mass -- that is, a projected gathering of psychic energy that supposedly will be able to locate and settle other worlds for mankind. The few people on Earth with provable psychic talents are sent to work on the Pritcher Mass. Sant is a reject from this program. But after an accident forces him to move through the dreaded outside world he finds his survival possible only by a desperate use of paranormal power. He believes the experience has strengthened his psyche enough to enable him to pass the test and be accepted. But by now he has become enmeshed in a dark plot between a Witchcraft of underground psychics and a crime syndicate that is trying to take over the Pritcher Mass. IF So far so good. But from here on things gradually go haywire. Sant does get to the Mass, but finds reason to doubt it can do what it is designed for. Nonetheless he finds ways to use it to escape back to the outlands of Earth. The narration's logic slips. Coincidence begins to enter rather strongly. The Pritcher Mass turns out to be perfect for solving problems it was not meant to solve. Sant's hopeless situation is eased by a discovery that the outlands are no problem to those with certain lucky psi abilities. (Must psi always degenerate from the specific to the general and become a damned universal panacea?) At the end everything is sewed up -- the witches and the criminals make their moves in steady and predictable patterns. Routine action is stitched together -- but at the end I at least felt that the thread had caught somewhere and the seams were all bunched together. The story begins marvelously, but ultimately my feeling was not a happy one. The execution was far below Dickson's usual high level. dling of her Earthsea novels has been exemplary. The idea behind the series (now consisting of three novels) has proved so good that these books are among the happy list of those written for children that make even better reading for adults. The Farthest Shore Atheneum #) brings to a conclusion the saga of Ged, the great magician of Earthsea. In this one, a young man -- Arren -- comes to the island of the wise magicians to warn that magic is failing in many parts of the world. No one knows why, but the ancient spells no longer work and the magicians are losing the knowledge of the old speech that gave them power. Ged sets out with Arren and discovers that the menace is all too real and that its sphere of influence is rapidly growing. In a series of happy (for the reader) adventures, Ged begins to realize that a rash action of his own during his youth has loosed a malign influence on the world of Earthsea. And to conquer it his people must go to Selidor, the island where the oldest dragons dwell -- and perhaps even beyond to a place from where men rarely return in their own living flesh. This is, of course, fantasy. But it is fantasy with a logic of execution that is usually found only in science fiction. Only the most hardened fantasy hater should be able to resist it. I highly recommend this novel, as I've recommended the two previous ones. The Farthest Shore is rich in ideas, color and inventions -- and excellently execute. D aw Books began with an idea, too -- Donald A. Wollheim felt that he could begin his own publishing company and Find at least four novels each month to publish. It was a rather large concept to come up with in a market already well filled with other publishers and established houses vying for writers. But judging by Wollheim's latest batch of books in his first six months of operation the idea seems to be working. Of the last four books one is a reprint from hard covers -- Dinosaur Beach, by Keith Laumer. (The price for this is #, as is true for all of Laumer's wealthiest novels as far as ideas are concerned. It involves the fairly ancient idea of a future that is tampering with time to change the viability of that future by changing the past. But nothing is ever simple when Laumer tackles time. Mixed with action during the Jurassic Age are hints of different futures with different goals and the control of some great robotic brain that controls all the multiple threads. It's good, fast-paced adventure without obvious or banal themes. The second is The City Machine, by Louis Trimble. The idea here is basically a familiar one, but handled with some fresh insight. Men live in a great city, the overlords at the top, the technicians in the middle and the workers on the unlovely bottom levels. The scene is not Earth -- the city has been built on another planet. The first group to arrive built the level now used by workers. Next an invading group took over and built the upper levels. The interesting variant is that both groups used a machine that could be programed to build a whole city on order. This machine still exists on the somewhat inhospitable planet, but is kept secret by a few who have survived outside the city. They cannot use it, since they cannot read the original instructions. In fact, the city-dwelling technician hero is the only man who can still read the original language -- and his knowledge is an imperfect remnant of childhood. The story involves the attempt of a group of rebels to use him to build a new city and free the workers. The book is free from most cliches and has some nice touches, tt makes for pleasant reading. Stardroppers, by John Brunner, an expanded and much improved version of an older story. Its idea is so well developed and has been given so much freshness that it isn't fair to call it borrowed, though the IF plot opens with a threat caused by communication with "other races" and becomes something else equally familiar. But the transition is cleverly done and the move from one to the other is surprising in concept, if not in its inevitable development. A security agent is sent to investigate a new invention, an apparently simple little gadget that produces sounds most listeners seem to understand -- almost. It's popularity had developed into a craze -- and there are signs that many users are becoming psychotic and that the thing may be endangering world stability. These perils are confirmed -- even worse, it turns out that some people who have been "stardropping" suddenly disappear. Perhaps this snark is a boojum! The book is not one of Brunner's stronger literary efforts -- it's one of the good adventure stories he turned out in considerable number before his work became more ambitious. But the ideas are sound and the execution is smooth and masterful. I found it a good novel to read for fun. The fourth novel of the current interesting publishing coup, nevertheless. The Return of the Time Machine, by Egon Friedell, is intended as a sequel to the classic novel by H. G. Wells, done by a German writer and historian before World War II -- as detailed in a foreword by Donald A. Wollheim. The story opens by presenting some (almost certainly suprious) correspondence of the journalist in the original novel with Wells through his secretary. Then it sets about continuing the adventures of the Time Traveler -- this time as he sets out for the past. Friedell lets his story devolve into a bunch of incidents that seem more concerned with German mysticism of the type common in some circles in the 'thirties. There's a touch of an improbable love story, a contact with the future (he never does really get faf into the past) in which two Egyptian priests discuss mind power -- and a final episode in which all logic vanishes. Nobody seems to know whether Wells was aware of the original German publication of this book in #. This is the first English version. I hope he did not know of the German edition -- it would have been a shame for him to have been so insulted. Still, bad as it is, the book had to be published since it existed -- and I can't help admiring Wollheim's ability to ferret it out. Though completely lacking in ideas and badly executed, it has genuine value as a curiosity.  Mankind's biggest secret -- or, where do baby storks come from? 'i  ' f. he left Jenny and Jim the house he had lived in, the old movies he had loved to watch and the workshop where he had tinkered away the final years of his life. Jenny and Jim buried him high on the valley slope where the woodbine ran wild each spring and the first wildfiowers appeared -- where the warm rays of Arcturus struck each springtime morning, heralding the new day. Jim said a few words over the grave and Jenny stood beside him, trying to cry. She couldn't. She had no tears. "We give to you this man, God," Jim said, "to do with as you must. We give him to you because you are his god. He was ours." Together they shoveled earth over the crude wooden casket and afterward Jenny placed a handful of spring flowers on the grave. Then she and Jim walked down the slope of the valley and across the fields to where the white prefabricated house stood, the aluminum workshop just behind it. "Shall we watch a movie tonight?" Jenny asked. "Or do you think it would be disrespectful?" "I don't think it would be disrespectful," Jim answered. "I don't think Professor Tom would mind." The movie they decided upon was Made for Each Other, starring Carole Lombard and James Stewart. They waited till after the sun went down. Then Jim put the film in the projector, turned out the lights. They sat down on the sofa to watch. They had watched the movie many times with Professor Tom and had hugged and kissed like the actors did, but never when he was looking. They had felt he might disapprove. But it was all right now, not because he was gone, but because they were man and wife. So they sat there on the sofa with their arms around each other, and every time Carole Lombard kissed James Stewart Jenny kissed Jim. And whenever James Stewart kissed Carole Lombard Jim kissed Jenny. Afterward they went outside to sit on the steps and scan the skies. But although they scanned them all night, they saw nothing but stars. At length morning arrived. Lovely Arcturus rose above the green lip of the valley and songbirds climbed air currents into the sky to drink the nectar of the new day. Jenny said to Jim, "Maybe we're being in much too much of a hurry -- maybe it takes time." Jim answered, "Maybe it'll come tonight." J IM had been Professor Tom's gardener and handyman, Jenny his cook and housekeeper. On Earth, before his retirement. Professor Tom had been an engineer in the mechanized-menial field and Jenny and Jim were almost as beautiful as the stars in the old movies. He had loved them both, but it had been Jenny he had loved the most and sometimes tears he did not understand had come into his eyes when he looked at her. He had said on his deathbed, "I never figured on things coming to this so soon. I preached humility all my life, but all the while I was just as arrogant as everybody else. I never thought that death would really step on my heels. But you two will be all right. The supply ship will be here within a year and I've left a note to the captain to take good care of you. He's an old friend of mine." "Will you marry us?" Jenny has asked and Professor Tom had looked at her and blinked. ) "You said," Jim pointed out, "that once you were a justice of the peace. That gives you the authority to make us man and wife." "That was long ago," said Professor Tom, "but yes, I suppose it does. However -- " "Surely," Jenny had interposed, "you wouldn't want us to live in sin. We're madly in love and there's no telling how we'll carry on without you here to chaperone us." A tear zigzagged down Professor Tom's sere cheek as he said, "Poor child, what do you know about making love -- and what, good would the knowledge do you if you had it? But if it will make you happy -- " There was no bible in the house, but the professor had made do without it. He had spoken the beautiful words they had heard so often in the old moives. "In sickness and in health... Love, honor and obey... I now pronounce you man and wife." J fore. Jim worked in Professor Tom's flower garden in daytime, keeping it free from weeds. There was a kitchen garden, too, and Jim cultivated it as faithfully as he had before, although it would serve no useful purpose now. He and Jenny had already thrown out the food, that was moldering in the refrigerator. They had turned off the unit and put away the dishes. Every day Jenny cleaned the house from front to back, dusting furniture and scrubbing floors. Except for fixing meals for Professor Tom her routine was unchanged. Sometimes, while she was working, she would hum songs from the movie she and Jim had watched the night before. And sometimes in the middle of dusting the living room she would drop the cloth and dance the way Ruby Keeler did in #nd Street, #nd Street was her favorite movie, but My Blue Heaven was her favorite song. Sitting on the sofa in the light reflected from the screen, the automatic projector whirring behind them, they would embrace and kiss and Jim would say, "Did you have a good day, darling?" She would answer, "Yes, my sweet." IF He would kiss her eyes and ears and nose and she would kiss his chin. They would hold each other as tightly as they could, but nothing ever came of their ardor and the skies remained as empty as before. "Perhaps tomorrow," Jenny would say. Jim would answer, "Yes, I'm sure tomorrow will be the Big Day." But the Big Day failed to dawn and Happiness continued to hide in the hills, in the woodbine and the wildflowers -- in the green bowers of the trees. both their memory banks with generous helpings of information, but for the most part these had to do with electronics, mechanical engineering, horticulture and cookery. It was to the old movies that they were indebted for their practical education. Most of the movies were products of the #'s, but there some from the 'twenties and a handful from the 'forties and' 'fifties. The professor had spent a great many years and a great deal of money collecting them and naturally he had taken them with him when he had retired to Arcturus VI to live out his sunset years in solitude and peace in the isolated valley he had bought " -- light-years removed," as he had put it, "from the malicious machinations of mankind." Sitting With Jenny and Jim in the living room one night, watching The Bells of St. Marys, he had said, "That's the way it was in those days -- only that wasn't, the way it really was at all." "But how can something be true and yet not be true at all?" Jenny asked and he had laughed. "I can see, my dear, that despite the perfection of your computerized thought processes -- or even more probably because of it -- you're incapable of any non-Aristotelian thinking. Many things can be both true and untrue. The worlds we watch upon that magic screen, my dear, are distorted reflections of reality inhabited by the ghosts of people whose real selves were often hidden from their own eyes. A reality powdered and perfumed and with its vitals eviscerated -- a reality tailored for people who hadn't outgrown their need to be told fairy tales before they went to bed." Professor Tom sighed. "But I'll take it any day. For all its pious hypocrisies -- for all its omissions and its untrue truths -- it's a thousand times better than the reality I lived in all my life and finally left behind. I guess when men grow old they like to hide in caves and watch reflections on the walls." In addition to the old movies, Professor Tom's collection comprised dozens of animated cartoons. Jenny and Jim found them fascinating. Some featured animals drawn to look like men or men drawn to look like animals. Others featured animals that were really meant to be animals but that talked and sometimes lived like human beings. In one way the cartoons were more educational than the movies, for they threw light on a certain mystery the movies were completely mum about. A mystery Professor Tom's books -- most of which were devoted to electronics and mechanical engineering -- did not even mention. In fact, if it hadn't been for the cartoons Jenny and Jim would never have learned the Secret of Life. B ut apparently knowing the 'Secret of Life was not enough. The valley exchanged its green dress for summer's golden gown. The warm days and nights began parading past the prefabricated house. But although Jenny and Jim sat each evening on the sofa, aping the actions of the shadows on the screen, their embraces and kisses went unrewarded. The dawn of each new day found them sitting disappointed on their doorstep, as lonely as before. "Maybe it's like that song that Don Ameche sings to Sonja Henie," Jenny said. "You know the one I mean -- that only one in a what we're trying to do is harder than we think." "Maybe," Jim answered. "And maybe it's because they do things between scenes that we don't know about." "Do things such as what?" "Like maybe they take off their clothes and kiss and hug that way." "Why would they take their clothes off? What difference would their being naked make?" "I don't know," said Jim, "but it wouldn't hurt to try." T hat evening before they sat down on the sofa they removed their clothes. Professor Tom had lost interest in sex even before he retired and Jenny's body, although differently shaped, wasn't a great deal different from Jim's. The movie they watched abounded in love scenes, but although they embraced and kissed every time the two main characters did, their efforts went as unrewarded as before. During one dawn, as they sat disconsolately on their doorstep, Jim said, "I think I know the reason, Jenny -- I think I know why for us it doesn't work. We're different -- and this world is different, too. We're IF going to have to make it happen. We've got everything we need to work with, thanks to Professor Tom, and he taught us practically all he knew. Maybe he foresaw a time like this." They got busy right away. Jim made the blueprint first, after consulting several of Professor Tom's books. Then he made all the parts. Jenny helped him with the assembling. They worked day and night, taking time out only to watch the old movies and to kiss and embrace like the stars. There was hope in them now and they put more and more passion into their kisses. "I want it to be a boy," Jenny said. "Yes," Jim answered. "I want a son." They had begun work in midsummer. Fall was on hand when they finished, and yellow and crimson patterns had begun to show upon the hills. Jim had built a lightweight electric motor to provide the necessary power. He made two light but long-lasting batteries to feed it. Together he and Jenny climbed the valley slope. "We'll give it all the height we can," he said. "That way it'll have a maximum chance of getting to wherever it has to go and of returning with its bundle." He turned on the little motor and released the device into the air. Slowly it rose into the sky. It circled the valley once, as he had programed it to do, then sped off toward the south. Section #, Title #. United States Code). #. Title of publication: IF. #. Date of Tiling: October I, #. #. Frequency of issue: bimonthly. #. Location of known offices of publication: # East # Street New York, N.Y. I#I#. #. Location of the headquarters or general business offices of the publishers: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. I#I#. #. Names' and addresses of the publisher, editor and managing editor. Publisher: Arnold E. Abramson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Editor: Ejler Jakobsson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Managing Street, New York, N.Y. #, u subsidiary of Universal Publishing and Distributing Corporation, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #: Arnold E. Abramson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #; Robert J. Abramson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #; Peter J. Abramson, # East # Street, New York. N.Y. #; Allen  Company, # Broad Street, New York, N.Y. #(X)#; Clooney . Company, co Fiduciary Trust Company of N.Y., P.O. Box #, Wall Street Station, New York, N.Y. #; S. D. Lunt  Company, # Marine Trust Building, Buffalo, N.Y. #. #. Known bondholders, mortgagees and other security holders owning or holders or holding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages or other securities: None. #. Extent and nature of circulation. A. Total no. copies printed (net press run). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. B. Paid Circulation. I . Sales through dealers and carriers, street vendors and counter sales. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. #. Mail subscriptions. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing dale: #. C. Total paid circulation: Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. D. I. Free distribution by mail, carrier or other means. I. Samples, complimentary and other free copies. Average no. copies each issue during the preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. #. Copies distributed to news agents, but not sold Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. E. Total distribution (sum of C and D). Average no. copies each issue during preening # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. F. Office use, leftover, unaccounted, spoiled after printing. Average no. copies each issue during preceding I # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. G. Total (sum of E and F; should equal net press run shown in A). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date #. I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete. Lawrence C. Murphy, Circulation Manager. Jenny said, '"But suppose the nursery doesn't lie in that direction." "Then -- after it comes back we'll recharge its batteries and send it to the west. And after that, if necessary, to the east and to the north. The nursery has to be somewhere." "Later on, if it's successful, we'll send it for others, won't we?" Jenny said. "Of course. But first we'll make love -- otherwise it won't work." Hand in hand they walked down the slope and across the fields to the house. T he captain of the supply ship found them in the living room six months later. They were sitting on the sofa, their bodies covered with dust, their arms around each other, their lips touching in a final kiss. Before them in the shadows an empty screen hung ghostlike on the wall. Behind them stood the automatic projector they had used to project their dreams. The length of copper wire they had used to short themselves out was lying on the floor at their feet. The captain went all through the house. Professor Tom's note was lying on the bedtable beside his empty bed. The captain read it. Then he returned to the living room and looked once more at the faces of Jenny and Jim. He had known Tom all his life and he had known Tom's longdead wife. In Jenny's face he saw young Tom's beloved bride -- in Jim's, he saw young Tom. When he made them # bet he didn't even know ,... His first thought was to repair them, to bring them back to life. Then he found the mechanical stork lying in the back yard. One of its canvas wings was broken, its tiny motor was burned out and its power source had given up the ghost after its fourth and final flight. He guessed the truth. He had his men search the valley for Professor Tom's grave. After they found it he had them carry Jenny and Jim up the slope and bury them beside it. It was only fitting that they should sleep beside their god. He spoke a few words to his own: "All of us leave ghosts behind of one kind or another. In a way, we're ghosts ourselves. We haunt ourselves our whole lives through because no matter how hard we try we can never fulfill our dreams. We're a lot like Jenny and Jim, which makes them human in a way. Grant them peace." When spring came back again, the woodbine reached down from the hills and covered the two new graves and wildflowers appeared to welcome the springtime sun. # IF New York. Guest-of-Honor: Keith Laumer. Speakers: Isaac Asimov, Donald Wollheim, Hans Stefan Santesson, and others. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Ralph Tripodi, RR #, Box #F Longview Avenue, Rocky Point, New York #.  At the Sheraton-Boston Hotel, Boston, Massachusetts. Guest-ofHonor: Robert "Doc" Lowndes. Registration: # in advance (to ##), # at the door. For inforCambridge, Massachusetts #.  the StatlerHilton Hotel, New York City. Guest-of-Honor: Harlan Ellison. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Walt Cole, #I East #th Street, Brooklyn, New York #. Hotel, Los Angeles Airport. Guestof-Honor: Theodore Sturgeon. Toastmaster-General: Randall Garret. Featuring appearances by cast and crew members of Star Trek, films from the famed TV series and displays of sets and costumes. Also: star-studded banquet. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: Frances Tuning, P.O. Box #, Santa Barbara, California #. At the Sheraton-Dallas, Dallas, Texas. Membership: # (to ##), # at the door. For information: D-Con '#, Box #, Lewisville, Texas #. August #-September #, #. Fiction Convention: At Royal York Hotel, Toronto, Canada. Guest-of-Honor: Robert Bloch. Rotsler. Toastmaster at Hugo Awards Banquet: Lester del Rey. Membership: # attending and # supporting (until ##), # at the door. For information: Torcon #, Box #, Station K. Toronto #, Ontario, Canada. cai# # East # Street I New York N Y. # I FT i # pmr word ( including nmmc and address). #-word ntinimum. Paymant with order. ijj Psychic. Send Name, Birthdate, Time, Location and #. magazines. Arkham House, Fantasy Press, Lovecraft. #. Evergreen, CO #. Philosophy: The Nature of Form in Process; Information processing from Plato to present (hardcover). I I I pp., #, postage included. Writers: Publishing short-short SF with impact. Also, original, American G I I #, Flushing, New York I I #. thors. Shocking fiction, uncensored opinions, outraI #. Portland, OR #I Longview, Washington #. techniques, quantum and mind, how you use lunar Barbara, CA #. Florida State Christian College. Post Office Box #, Fort Lauderdale, Florida #. Sackson (Columnist in "Strategy and Tactics" Magazine) calls # A.D. "A Beautifully Unique Departure in War Games". For Free Catalogue of Adult Games Canada. free. Autosuggestion. Box #-GY, Olympia, Washington #. Burning. # Cones -- Assorted Fragrances -- plus CeNY. #. #. #, Stanwood, Washington #. #, Boulder, Colorado #. Sizes, Quality Printing. Send stamp for information. Stamped Envelope. Schulz, Box #, Absecon, N.J. come. active audience of # readers. Broad range of classifications. Reguiar and Display. Order now for fast results. Frank Brennan. # E. #, New York. N Y #. (#) MU#-# A  ' xr 'v ufci K rscf Of Ht rnff f (crm ; books Qce books  Division of Charter Communications inc. It was the computerls revenge. In rage, in frenzy, he turned us into monstrosities, imprisoning us deep inside his endless banks. Now Pam a great soft jelly thing. I have no mouth. And I must scream. Get the idea? Gripping, chilling science fiction offers some of today's mostcompelling reading. Harlan Ellison's "I Have No Mouth And I Must Scream" packs such a wallop, it walked off with a Hugo -- science fiction's Oscar -- for the best science fiction short story of the year. Ellison's wild tale and # others are waiting for you in a sensational collection. The Hugo Winners, a new, #page, double volume of all the Hugo short story winners from # to #. The anthology can beyours as part of an equally sensational # books for #P offer when you join the Science Fiction Book Club. Choose any # books on this page including, if you wish, the # most prized books of the year: The Hugo Winners, Volumes I  II Ca # value): Dune, the now classic novel that won Frank Herbert a Hugoand Nebula award C# in the publisher's edition); and Isaac Asimov's latest and perhaps best novel. The Gods Themselves (# in publisher's edition). A # value for' only #P (to help cover shipping). Throughout the year, our bulletin will keep you informed about superb new works for which you pay only # plus shipping and handling. And you need buy only four books in the coming year. So join today. Don't even send us the dime now. We'll bill you later. But mail the coupon today. Dept. CL-#, Garden City, N Y. # Please accept my applicaticn for membership in the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the # books whose numbers I have written in the boxes below Bill me just #I (to help cover shipping) for all #. About every # weeks, send me the club's bulletin. "Things to Come," describing ihe # coming Selections and a variety of Alternate choices If I wish to receive both Selections, I need do nothing; they will be shipped to me automatically Whenever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an Alternate, or no book at all, I will notify you by the date specified by returning the convenient form always provided I need take only # Selections or Alternates during the coming year, and may resign any time thereafter Most books are only SI. #, plus a modest charge for shipping and handling (Jccasionally, extra-value Selections are slightly higher entire introductory package within #C days Membership will be cancelled. I owe nothing. Mr. Mrs. -- Miss Zip. enoNno #. Dune by Frank Herbert. Celebrated winner of Hugo and Nebula. Gripping tale of family exiled from their private planet to another, a barren desert. Pub. ed. # # Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners',' chosen by. Sci-Fi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. # #. Mutant #: The Plastic Eaters by Kit Pedler and Gerry Davis. New bacteria goes berserk causing London to melt. Pub. ed. # #. The Dancer From Atlantis by Poul Anderson. Four peoplefrom different ages and cultures -- are catapulted by a time machine back to # B.C. Fascinating mixture of history, myth and imagination. Spec. Ed. # The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov. The master's first novel in # years...and worth the wait for a fabulous trip to the year #. Pub. ed. # #. The Sheep Look Up by John Brunner. The celebrated author of Stand On Zanzibar presents a multimedia mind-bender that chronicles the collapse of civilization. Pub. ed. # #. Nova # ed. by Harry Harrison. A fabulous sequel to Nova # sci-fi fables by great such as Aldiss, Farmer, Silverberg. Pub. ed. # # A Time of Changes by Robert novel of strange planet where human beings must despise themselves. #I Nebula award winner. Spec. Ed. Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in with trial membership # The Hugo Winners, V # I.T II. Giant #-in-l volume of # award-winning stories. # to #. Asimov introduces each. Pub. ed. # #. Again, Dangerous Tisions, Harlan Ellison, ed. Forty-six pieces, short stories  novels. Explicit scenes and language may be offensive to some. Pub. ed. # #I The # Annual World's Best Science Fiction, ed. by DonaldA.Wollheim. Volume IV contains # gems from Clarke, Sturgeon, and more Spec. Ed. # The Eariy Asimov by Isaac Asimov. # previously uncollected early stories by the most famous name in science fiction. Pub. ed. #  your permanent library. Canada.  The Sensational New Novella by and Great new science-fiction titles from... Damon Knight Seven Rithians -- enemy aliens -- have landed on Earth. Six are disposed of. One breaks loose and must be found or disaster will follow. But how to detect a monster that can disguise itself as a man -- any man? AS# # Ray Russell A pious #-year-old girl one night flings off her clothes, tries to seduce her priest, spews a stream of obscenities. Obviously she is possessed! A handsome cleric is assigned the task of exorcising her. He knows there is only one way to cast out a devil from the body of a virgin... AN#I # By the editors of Galaxy Magazine For more than twenty years Galaxy has ranked as the foremost science-fiction magazine. It continually presents award-winning stories by all the top writers in the field. Award Books is proud to publish a select collection of recent fiction from the magazine -- a collection, in short, that's the best of the best. AN# # The exciting adventures of starship captain Matt Foyt... deep-space thrills and chills in every corner of the galaxy. The first two titles in the series are just off the presses... Charles Huntington Charles Huntington AS# # AS# # Please send me the science-fiction titles checked below. I enclose check or money order for (plus # for each book to cover postage and handling). AS# AN#I AN# AS# AS# Name Address City State Zip (Offer good only in U.S.A.) The best of all possible worlds.   board game enclosed. Five times a year, our magazine  contains a complete board game with die-cut markers. Free. We have such a game, right now: "The Second  Galactic War." It's not so free. But just # --    will get you one. And # will get you a (  yE are five free board games a year, you can see how #'much you'll be saving with a year's subscription. Can you dig it? Mail in the coupon now and check r ' -- -Y appropriate boxes for subscription, for the game,# O or hopefully, for both. Send check or Money -- q# Order to: The Third Millennia, Inc., # Woodland Hills, Philadelphia, Mississippi #  I year (# issues) #  # years (# issues) # Send me the following games:  "Second Galactic War" #  "Salerno" #  "Shiloh" #  "Operation Market Garden" # Address. # MarchApriM# Vol. #,No. # Issue I # Arnold E. Abramson. Publisher Ejler Jakobsson. Editor Theodore Sturgeon. Contributing Editor Judy Lynn Benjamin. Managing Editor Lester del Rey. Feature Editor L C. Murphy. Subscription Director Jay Tunick. Circulation Director Michael G. Coney # Universal Publishing ft Distributing Corporation. Arnold E. Abramson. President. Mam Offices: # East # Street. New York, N Y. #. Single copy: #c. #-issue subscription: # in U.S., # elsewhere. Kingdom by Universal-Tandem Publishing Company, Ltd., # Gloucester Road. London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson. Chairman of the Board. Ralph StokCs. Managing Director. Single copy: #p. #-issue subscription in the United Kingdom: #. Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. The publishers assume no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in U.S.A. Tfciit ' fjV gj   yii I J k  The paper time machine also a tool: a time machine that enables you to replay the crucial events -- past, present, and futurethat shape our lives. Now, instead of merely reading about what's happening, you can explore and experience the alternatives and decision points through the technique of Conflict Simulation. What ia Conflict Simulation? Conflict Simulation is a way of analyzing a political or military conflict situation. A way that is as intellectually stimulating as a game of chess, and as thorough as ai written analysis. Through the use of the Conflict Simulation (or "game") format, the conflict situation is re-created -- so that you are in a position to make the vital decisions and, in the game at least, change the way things were, are, or will be. What you gat ed bi-monthly. Each issue contains:  A ready-to-play conflict-simulation game with a # x #" playing surface, die-cut playing pieces, and complete rules.  An analytical article on the same subiect as the game in that issue.  Other feature articles on historical and military subjects.  Game and book reviews, commentary on existing games, and discussions of subscribers' questions. The magazine is #  pages long, and all material is handled in a highly organized (and easily understandable) graphic format. bat in Western Europe, #). We also publish a separate line of conflictsimulation games, which you will find listed in the coupon. Free fo new subscribers battle presented in a game-design specially created to introduce new readers to Conflict Simulation. Send check or M.O. toSimulations Publications Inc. Dspt # # East #rd St , Nsw York. N Y. # Please enter my subscription to S.  T. for: I Year (# issues)# # Yrs. (# issues) -- # # Yrs. (# issues) -- # Current issue # Send me the following Simulation Games:  Kursk (Russia. #-S#  Korea (#-#)#  Phalanx (ancient Greece)-#  Barbarossa (Russia, #) -- #  Leipzig (Napoleonic Wars. #) -- #  Normandy (the D-Day lnvasion)-#  Please send me your free brochure. City State Zip. and  ") -- R a  i (in ! s' iv n tv tin i i w ron ; Dear Mr. Jakobsson: About Stephen Tail's Gods on Olympus: It is a pleasant, readable tale because # 'it is odd , exciting and it has a climax" (G. K. Chesterton, Science and the Savages). The style is, if anything, soony, which means sentimental in Australian Jargon. To compensate, there are zing sentences terminating many paragraphs, which serve also as boundary markers. There is not much literary pilingPelion-onOssa. As to the structure, it is somewhat of a bundle of themes tied together only by their simultaneous existence in print. It is half science (vide mfra) and half fantasy, fused mainly by the personality of the I-narrator and his lovely spouse, with wizened Ursula serving as artistic oracle. The endihg is more of a half-cadence than a climax, being saved only by the intervention of a deus ex machina in the form of a hands-off ukase. It is scientifically unacceptable , at least by the criteria of today's biological paradigm. There is no evidence of evolution and only the imperial mute coon and his mate as evidence of of mutation or speciation. Moreover, it is legitimate to ask or what fauna the eagles generally fed. And finally, the small coon hands and the eagles together could not surmount the physical difficulty of such major construction as is described . Despite the carping criticism, an enjoyable piece. In the Reading Room Lester del Rey admits an attack of la maladie sans maladie and with poignant nostalgia calls to mind that era in which sf was a way of life, or if not that, then primarily a happy hobby for all participants. He pensively regrets the present demand for relevance and that urge to save the world for humanity even in the smallest activity. It is certain that both he and sf will find some pleasant nostrum for this ailment. This is not only a get-well-real-quick message, but has also the intent of noting that he gives to sf a purpose. Now Judith M. Hochberg strictly denies that sf has a purpose ( Directions, Galaxy, Sept. # #). People have purposes but genres do not. Let us not indulge in semantics, but rather synecdoche. Ms. Hochberg advocates sf that penetrates psyche, theology , social justice, humanitarianism (local, global and galactic) as well as other minute and great elements of life. Mr. del Rey wants carefully thought out, jolly good fun. She is more serious than he; he is the recessive component and she the progressive component in this scientific mythography. A just apodosis is that we must have more than one sort of sf tale. Alexander Doniphan Wallace University of Florida Dear Mr. Jakobsson: One of the clearest definitions of sf appeared in Lester del Rey's Reading Room in August If. He put forward three criteria for judging whether something is sf or not: I ) Rationality, #) Fiction, #) Alternative. He distinguishes ( Please turn to page I # )  M Just set it and forget it The built-in buzzer wakes you or  reminds you -- on time! AlfiP #  # . hairspring i aaasr Incredible I A  at only  genuine For years, watchmakers have been trying to produce a truly dependable wrist alarm watch at a sensible, down-to-earth price. Finally, the enterprising Swiss did it. And here it is! It could be a real life-saver for anyone who needs a never-fail reminder. Just set it and forget it. When the appointed hour arrives, you'll be jogged by a gentle yet insistent buzzing. This watch is strong on good looks... handsomely styled with a durable goldentone case, and matching raised gilt numerals and markers. It features a quality Swiss movement, unbreakable mainspring, antimagnetic hairspring. Plus luminous dial markers, hands and sweep second hand. And a genuine lizard strap like the # watches have. The price -- unbelievable at only # plus # postage and handling. Order yours now! Ideal gift for executives, salesmen, sportsmen, professional people... anyone! postage and handling. If not delighted, I may return order within # days for immediate refund. N.Y. residents add sales tax. Enclosed is  check  money order for . Print Name. Address. Serving Satisfied Customers for over # Years I T HE meeting and the funeral had both run long and Ben Charles Pertin was late. Because of this and because what he was late for was a date with the girl he loved and hoped to marry he was trying to make up time. On Sun One trying to hurry was both easy and unwise. The easy part was physical. Sun One's gravity ran about three per cent of Earth's even at the center, so you could leap thirty yards at a time on the straightaway and never bother with stairs or elevators in going from shell to shell of the great sphere. The unwise part lay in the fact that most of Sun One's population, composed of fifty strange races from all over the galaxy, was also in a hurry -- you ran the risk of collision all the time. Humanity was a junior race in the galaxy. Pertin's instructions had been most explicit about avoiding offense when possible. He was also in a difficult mood because of the combined impact of the morning's events. The funeral had been his boss's, Ray Sam Barnett's. Pertin had liked him only generally and defensively -- there had been no close personal tie. Nevertheless, Sam's death had been an unwelcome reopening of ancient insomniac questions having to do with what death really amounted to under the special circumstances of Sun One. As Pertin hurried down from the shell where Barnett's shrouded body had been consigned to the matter banks of the tachyon transmitters he found the old puzzle of identity clouding his mind. Sun One had begun as an asteroid circling a young blue-white giant star in the great diffuse gas cloud that Earthly astronomers called the Orion Nebula. Over a period of centuries it had been built upon, sheathed over and tunneled into until it had been converted into a great hivelike artifact. It was the closest thing there was to a central headquarters of the loose association of intelligent races in the galaxy which had made contact with each other. Ben Pertin and all the other forty or fifty human beings there were newcomers to Sun One and to the galactic confraternity -- Earth was the newest planet to .achieve contact. When a Sirian or a TWorlie died half of Sun One was likely to come out to do him honor. At the funeral of Pertin's boss the only mourners -- if "mourners" was the right term -- had been a handful of humans and not more than six representatives of all other known sentients. Not even all the humans had troubled to show up -- probably, Pertin thought, because they did not want to stimulate, again that endless questioning about who it was who had died, when the nature of tachyon travel meant that exact duplicates of Pertin's boss still lived at a dozen places in the galaxy. As they did for everyone on Sun One, since each of them had come there in the same way. N evertheless the death did have some concrete implications and one of them touched Pertin very closely. That had been the subject of the brief staff meeting that followed the funeral. The most unpleasant part was yet to come -- Pertin had to tell his fiancee about the results of the meeting. She was sure to dislike it. Still, as he came closer to where she was waiting for him the unpleasant, aspects began to fade from his mind and he began to feel the joy of seeing. Zara Doy again. Bisexual love, it had turned out; was not very common in the galaxy, most, of whose races either reproduced in impersonal ways or reserved their emotional commitments for functions other than procreation. But Pertin and Zara Doy were deeply in love all the same. They planned to marry as soon as they could and rather enjoyed the fact that thismade them objects of interest to such beings as possessed personal curiosity at all. So they were watched as Pertin spotted Zara Doy and launched himself toward her in a shallow gravity dive over the heads of a thing like a dragon, a creature composed mostly of a single great. blue eye and a couple of scurrying collective creatures from one of the IF core stars. "Sorry," he cried down at them, caught the laughing girl's hand and stopped hard beside her. , "Ouch," she said, releasing a holdfast with her other hand. "I'd appreciate a little less enthusiasm next time." He kissed her and took her arm. "It's part of the image," he said cheerfully. "You know what the chief of delegation says. Make them know we're here. Earth may be the newest planet in the association but it isn't going to be the least important. We have a duty to Earth to make ourselves known throughout the galaxy and a duty to the galaxy to contribute our strength and our know-how." "I think," said the girl, "that if you're going to talk like that you'd better buy me a drink." At this shell of Sun One the curvature of the spherical surface they walked on was noticeably sharp. It was easier to leap than to stroll. To travel arm in arm, which is how Ben Charles Pertin chose to walk with his girl, required practice and a lot of discomfort, not only to them but to the other sentients in the concourse. Pertin and Zara shifted grips, so that each had an arm around the other's waist -- then Pertin caught the holdfast webbing with his free hand and partly tugged, partly kicked them into the air. They shot past the dragonlike creature, narrowly missed a steelwork vertical strut, touched down again next to something that looked like a soft-bodied beetle with three dozen legs and were in sight of the little refreshment platform they liked. Pertin said "Hi!" to a thing like a green bat as it flapped by. It hissed something shrill that his personal translator repeated into his ear as, "I recognize your identity, Ben Charles Pertin." The girl nodded, too, although all members of that particular race, which was called the T' Worlie, looked alike to her, and in any event the T'Worlie did not have the custom of nodding since they had no more neck than bats. As they waited for traffic to clear Zara asked, "How did things go this morning?" He hesitated, then said, "About as usual. Things are all fouled up on the probe." He was watching a tumbling boxlike robot coming toward them on a tangent, correcting its course with methodical jets of steam from the faces of its cubical body, but the tone of his voice made the girl look at him sharply. "What is it, Ben?" . "I'll tell you when we sit down." "You'll tell me now." "Well -- " He hesitated, then cried. "All right, we can make it now!" But the girl wrapped her fingers around the webbing of the holdfast. "Ben!" He relaxed and looked at her. He didn't say anything, but he didn't have to. "Ben! Not again!" He said defensively, "I have to, Zara. The other copy of me is dying. Barnett promised he'd go instead of me -- because of how you feel -- but now he's dead here. There's nobody from Earth on the probe now to represent us. So I agreed to carry the ball." He gazed appraisingly at the traffic of aliens f then back at her -- and frowned in sharp surprise. Zara seemed close to crying. He said, "What are you making a big thing about? It's nothing we haven't done before." "I know," she said and blinked hard. "It's only -- well, it's sort of silly. It's just that I hate the idea of your dying out there while we're on our honeymoon." Pertin was touched. He patted the girl's hand and said seriously. "Honey, one of the traits I like best in you is that you're ndi afraid to be sentimental at the right time. Don't knock it. I love you for it. Now let's go get that drink." T 'HE little cafe was nearly empty. That was one of the things they liked about it. It had actual waiters -- Purchased People; they didn't have much personality to display, but they were actually human, genetically speaking -- and Pertin and his fianede enjoyed ordering in their rudimentary Italian. It was not their own language, to be sure, but at least it was one for which they did not need the Pmal translators. Pertin pulled his feet up, crossed them in air and settled gently onto his chair. They looked about while waiting for their drinks to be brought. Pertin had been on Sun One for more than two years now, the girl for several months. Even so, familiarity had not dulled their interest in the place. Zara was a newscaster, broadcasting to Earth every week on the stereo stage. Pertin was an engineer. His job on Sun One didn't involve much engineering. It did involve an interesting mixture of skills -- he functioned partly as a legalized spy, partly as a goodwill ambassador from Earth to the restof the universe. The mere fact that a job like his Ben Charles Pertin. He was old enough to remember the time when humans had thought themselves alone in the galaxy. The old "nations" had put up their chemical rockets and sent them chugging to Venus, Mars and the moon in his grandfather's time. They had looked for life and come up empty every time. Nuclear probes, ' a generation later, had investigated the outer planets, the satellites and even the asteroids with the same result. No life. By the time Ben had been twelve the juice had run out of space travel. Contact had come as Ben Pertin was turning thirteen. Something IF had been found on Pluto -- an artifact, half-buried under Pluto's mirror of ice -- and Earth had suddenly looked outward again. The stereo stages had been full of the Find, of the First fumbling attempts to patch it together, the First daring experiment at putting power through it. Everybody had talked about it. Ben and his parents had watched the glowing figure on their stage, enthralled. The kids in school had made it the main subject of every class. And when the ancient communicator had come to life and the First alien face had peered out of its screen and looked into the face of a human. Earth had gone mad. A more of that cockamamie Earthman's Burden talk," said Zara Doy, "I heard too much of it when I was a kid. I don't want you going out to die. Stay here with me." Pertin said fondly, "You're sweet, Zara. But this is important. The situation on the probe is exploding -- the beings are Fighting. They're dying uselessly. I can't back out just for some sentimental idea of -- " "Sentiment be damned! Look. When we get married I want you right in bed with me -- all of you. I don't want to be thinking about part of you dying way off in nowhere." whose first book in # is his first J since winning the Hugo in #  for best novel of the year. This time i Farmer turns his critical eye on i Jules Verne and tells us what really I happened in those eighty days  an interstellar conflict right here on x ( Earth; and also sheds some unexJ pected light on Captain Nemo , the j mystery of the Mary Celeste , and , some other enigmas! With illustra tions by Jack Gaughan. I Gaughan also did the cover for , which pans three worlds and J three parallel destinies. What more j need besaid? Phillrfent is a really different tale of i a metabolically reconstructed man I on a world inimical to humans. ( Wait until you see Kelly Freas's  cover!  And finding a new author is ali troduces a new approach to the j new author to American sf readers, i Gordon will be heard from later in  the year -- and by then you'll be J looking forward to his imaginative  talent I. With a superb cover by ( Kirby. "I'll be with you, honey. All of me." "You know what I mean," she said angrily. He hesitated. The last thing he wanted was to quarrel with his fiancee two days before they were to get married. He rubbed his troth ring and said, "Zara, I have to go to the probe. First, I said I would and the boss has passed the word to all the other top brass on Sun One. Second, it's important. It's not 'Earthman's Burden.' It's simple logic. We're new and pretty far behind, compared to the Scorpians or the methane crowd or the T' Worlie. But look at what we've done already: We have Earth people on every major planet, working in every big project, taking part in everything that's happening. The others are getting used to us. They consult us now. Who else is there to go if I back out? Earth won't be represented." "I don't care." "It's not as if I haven't done it before -- " "The other time you went we weren't about to be married." "All right, that's true. I owe you something. But I owe our planet something, too. We're just beginning to contribute our share of leadership in the galaxy, Zara. I mean, look at that waiter. Half the Purchased People around are now human beings. When the nonviables edit a copy for Sun One -- what shape do they copy? Human! The human shape is as familiar in the galaxy now as the Sheliaks -- and all less than in twenty years." Zara sucked at the last of her drink and put it down in its cage. She stared at the waiter, who was smoking a cigarette and thinking whatever thoughts a blanked-out personality was allowed to think. She shook her head. "I'll lay it out nice and orderly like an engineer for you, Ben. First, if they copy human shape -- is it because they respect us or because they have some crazy methane sense of humor? Second, if they buy our convicts for Purchased People, likely enough it's because we have more criminals to sell. Third, I don't like the whole idea of Earth's trying to dominate the galaxy. Fourth -- " "Dominate? I said 'leadership,' not domination." "One is a prerequisite to the other. Fourth, I hate your going on personal grounds -- and I'm not talking about idealism. I'm talking about sex. It's going to take some of the joy out of going to bed with you, Ben, thinking that at the same time somewhere else you're getting eaten by a Sheliak or dying of radiation burn. I'm sorry it's so, but it's so." Ben said doubtfully after a moment, "Would it be better if we postponed the wedding a little bit?" "I don't know. Let me think." He waited, finished his drink, IF II looked cautiously at Zara. He saw no anger or misery on her pretty face -- she was simply staring thoughtfully out at the other beings in the concourse. Pertin beckoned to the waiter and paid the check. "They thank you," said the waiter in the idiom of the Purchased People, staring appraisingly at Pertin and the girl. As with all Earth's exported criminals, his body and will belonged to the race that had bought him, but the thoughts of the brain inside were still his own. Far off at the core of some gas-giant planet or floating in space, acreature with a wholly different physical structure was using this man's eyes and limbs as his own, linked by tachyon transmission to the monitor units implanted in each Purchased Person's skull. But inside that skull the original mind was spending a lifetime in solitary confinement. "They ask," droned the waiter, "if there will be anything else?" "No, we're going-" Zara sighed and smiled at Pertin. "Well -- you want to go pretty badly. Feeling the way you do, I suppose you ought to go. I won't stop you, Ben, and it's silly to put off getting married. But there is one thing I want you to do." He waited warily. "Give me your ring. No, just to hold. When you've finished going to the probe I'll give it back to you. But I don't want you wearing my ring when you die."  the tachyon transport chamber, out at the far shell of Sun One and heavily shielded. Dr. Gerald York Bielowitz himself checked out Pertin. He was a methodical man, one of the reasons he was head of the mission to Sun One. He read from a soundscripted list. "We've got about ten minutes, Ben Charles. Let's see. Object Lambda. You know as much about it as I do. It's anomalous and it's exciting. The only way to find out about it is this probe and it's in Earth's interest to make the probe succeed." He dropped hjs eyes to the page and went on: "There's no possibility of survival on the probe, of course, and this has undoubtedly had some effect on the psyches of all the beings there. To the extent that they have what we can map as psyches, I mean. But in my opinion it's the physical problems that have caused the trouble. Some of them are now dying -- your predecessor among them, of course. Others are functioning poorly, probably because of ionization interference with their nervous systems. Or whatever corresponds to nervous systems. At any rate -- " he checked  off a point -- "the beings aboard no longer constitute an orderly system. There's violence. Some of the deaths are from fights or murders. This is seriously interfering with the operation of the probe and threatening its very success. You know how important that is. If we blow this it'll be more than a hundred years before we get another chance. And finally -- " Bielowitz folded the list and put it in his sporran -- "your account here will be credited with double-rate pay for your services on the probe. Your equipment will follow, along with Doc Chimp here." He nodded civilly to the hairy little handyman who crouched next to Pert in. "And good luck to you both." i# Thank you, Gerald York," said Pertin gravely. He stepped up to the transport portal, waited for the signal and entered, giving a half wave to Bielowitz as the door closed behind him. This was the fourth time he had found himself in a tachyon transporter box, or at least the fourth time that he remembered. They all looked about the same. On tbe inside they were featureless except for what seemed to be studs or nailheads almost" completely covering each of the six interior surfaces. He stood there for a moment and felt nothing. But something was going on. The sensors were counting, locating and identifying every atom in his body, measuring their bonds to adjacent atoms, charting them in a precise three-dimensional matrix. The information obtained they encoded into a string of binary numbers, whereupon the great tachyon generators glowed into life, transsecond in the direction of a point outside the farthest spiral arm of the galaxy, where the ship Ben Pertin had just volunteered to serve on -- and to die on -- lay waiting. transmission chamber -- that the great identity problem that plagued all the space-exploring humans had its genesis. Freud would have found another womb -- with a completely different set of birth traumas. All tachyon transmission was enormously expensive both in psy chic cost and in cash. Its only justification was that it was indispensable. If you wanted to get a man or an instrument or a shipload of chess sets from one point in the universe to some other point across interstellar distances you had only two choices. One was to build a rocket' preferably fusion-powered like the one Pertin was going to. You then had to launch it and set it on its way -- and then wait. Wait indefinitely, for it could take anywhere from a decade or two to geologic eras beforp it reached another star, even one relatively nearby. If you wanted to go farther than that you would wait forever. A voyage from a spiral arm to the core or from any point in. the galaxy to the deeps of intergalactic space was simply out of the time IF consciousness of any race but the T'Worlie. The other method was faster. It dispensed with attempting to transport matter at all. Instead of sending an object you sent a blueprint of the object and had it built from plan at the destination. The procedure was not simple. It required enormous expenditures of energy to generate the tachyon stream that carried the blueprint. It required complex scanning devices to measure every atom and molecule in the object to be transmitted and to encode positions and relationships for transmission. Above all, it required a tachyon receiver at the point to which you wanted to send -- or go. But granted all those things, you could "travel" at the speed of the tachyons, those particles whose lower speed limit was the velocity of light, and whose upper limit had never been measured. The original object, of course, remained behind. It was scanned and its blueprints were encoded and then it was released unharmed. He who volunteered for a tachyon trip also stayed at home. What flashed across space was a descripr tion of himself and what emerged from the receiving chamber at destination w r as a newly built identical copy. There was no detectable difference between original and copy. It would have been a foolproof method of counterfeiting or of duplicating rare art objects -- if it had not been so expensive in terms of power consumption that there was little worth the cost of duplicating. As a method of duplicating human beings, the process was more successful -- it was perfect and unique. The man who entered a tachyon transmission chamber to be sent to Sun One was the same man who walked out of it and returned to his home on Earth -- and was also the same man who emerged on Sun One to take up a wholly new life. The continuity was absolute. Neither was a "copy" in any physical sense. In a psychic sense the question of "reality" was troublesome. Every human who ventured into the star swarms was heavily briefed and indoctrinated with endless philosophical arguments and logical proofs. If you draw two triangles, which is the "real" triangle? (They both are, chorused the classes doubtfully.) If you build # Mercedes-Ford hovercars on an assembly line, which is the "real" Mercedes-Ford? (They all are.) Oh, the lecturers went on, there would eventually be differences among them. One car gets a scratch on the windshield when the wipers are installed. Another has a ripped gasket in its hydraulic system that, three years later, means its braking system has to be overhauled. But one is not an "imitation" or a "copy" of the other. Both are "real." All of the Ben Pertins were Ben Pertin. The custom that gave them differing middle names was only a convenience, but they were all real -- and, ladies and gentlemen, when you go out into space you will still be you. Not a copy. You. And the classes would nod and grin at each other and go on to their next training class. But that night each of them in his or her solitary bed would lie staring through closed eyes at a future that held two separate identities. And all through the courses the couches of the analysts were kept warm with the bodies of trainees trying to come to terms with the question of "reality." But the process itself was easy, quick and painless. It was only moments until Ben Charles Pertin walked out of the box and shook hands with his head of mission. "You're the best man I've got left," said Bielowitz. "Thanks." Pertin then went back to his office and worked through the rest of the afternoon. He left a little early to meet his fiancee and take her to dinner and over the coffee she returned his troth ring. Charles Pertin was putting his ring back on his finger, inasmuch as time at two points separated by relativistic distances and velocities qm be called the "same," Ben James Pertin pushed his way out of another, almost identical box on the probe ship. He stopped just outside the ; portal, moving slightly to allow it to  close behind him. His expression was grim. "Lucked out," he said aloud, looking around the unfamiliar chamber. There was no one to hear-or to see the bitter and despondent look on his face. The chamber was deserted. The probe was in free fall and Pertin floated slowly away from the transport. Nothing else was floating in the room. There was , no litter, no sign that any other being of any sort was within thousands of light-years and, as he listened, he heard not even any sound. He swore softly to himself and twisted his body around to face the crated personal effects that were nudging their way out of the box. There wasn't a great deal to ' come -- some tapes, some changes of clothing, personal items. At the end of the string of transmissions came his companion in the mission. Doc Chimp. Doc Chimp thrust out a long arm and caught the handle of the door as he went by. He hung there for a moment, staring at his environment with an expression that was a parody of Pertin's own. "Oh, wow, Ben Charles," he said sadly. "What a place." "It'll be 'Ben James,' I think," said Pertin. "Sure," said Doc Chimp dismally. "Me, I'm not going to bother. If you want to call me IF Pertin said, startled, "I don't hear anything." "Neither do I. But I smell it. It's a T Worlie, coming fast." T 'HE probe ship was T'Worlie property, but fortunately for the other races of the galaxy the T'Worlie didn't have a very strong territorial imperative.  They had been civilized for a long, long time. They were an inquisitive race in their unhurried way and no doubt that was why they had been sending their probes out for hundreds of generations. Little T'Worlie rockets had radiated in all directions from their mother star, some of them aimed at other stars, some at nothing closer than the Great Nebula in travel time away. Only a race like that, deploying probes as lavishly and patiently as that, could have discovered the curious astronomical object called Lambda. No other race would have been in a position to do it. Sirians, with their limited time-binding capacities that reached no more than a week into the future, wouldn't have bothered. Nothing that promised some remote payoff interested them at all -- which made them unattractive partners but inoffensive foes. Humans of course had no chance. Their technology wasn't up to the job. The farthest terrestrial probe was still climbing toward the turnover point on its now senseless journey toward # Eridani A. But the T'Worlie thought long, slow thoughts and they were gently but persistently curious about everything. If their race lived long enough it would learn everything there was to know. None of them seemed to mind that no T'Worlie now alive would be present to learn it. If the T'Worlie hadn't been what they wre, probably no one would have found Object Lambda for another several thousand years. It had been discovered first by an unmanned T'Worlie scoutship and reported in a routine synoptic survey. It attracted no attention at all. When first observed its great distance and low luminosity put it at the very threshhold of discovery and the traits that made it unique had not been detected. Subsequent observations attracted more attention. The Object's weak spectral lines seemed to shift toward the violet rather than the red, which is to say that it was moving toward the galaxy instead of away from it. Curious. But the lines were so very weak, the point so very distant and the orderly T'Worlie had many other things on their agenda to investigate. Then, by accident, another scout turned up the same object in a survey. It might not have been recognized if the computers of the T'Worlie had not been so patient IF and painstaking. The second scout had been launched five thousand years earlier, its vector several degrees away. From its point of view Object Lambda was in a wholly different part of the sky and its rate of approach, indicated by the spectral shift, quite different. But the computers had sensed a possible match and clucked over the figures until they confirmed it. There existed a specific, if hypothetical, orbit and velocity which, seen from those two scouts at those recorded times, would have given exactly those readings. From the estimated elements the computers made a prediction. They requested a special observation from still a third unmanned scout. Lo! it turned out as they had predicted. Object Lambda was not more than # light-years from the edge of the galaxy and was approaching it at about one-sixth of light speed. At this point the T'Worlie announced their discovery to the galactic civilization at large and began a study of their existing drones in that general part of space. The T'Worlie drones were as small as an interstellar probe can be made -- a scoop, a hydrogen ram, some instruments and a tachyon installation. The T'Worlie had been launching them, thousands at a time, for tens of thousands of years. Since they had never invented war they were able to accumulate large quantities of surplus capital, so the probes were not a . particularly expensive project for them. Like most early-industrial races, they had energy to burn. They burned it. Their planet was largely water covered -- though they looked like bats, they were somewhat more analogous to flying fish. Their water was rich in D # # and they spent its fusion energies profligately. The T'Worlie drone model was standardized early. A program was set up under which each drone, upon reaching a point suitably distant from all others, flashed a tachyonic signal to the T'Worlie planet, whereupon the tachyon transmitters scanned, encoded and transmitted whole new drones to the mother drone's unit. As each new drone flashed into being, it signaled in to the T Worlie planet, was given a course and program of its own and moved on. The effect was of an enormous globe of drones -- at them -- expanding outward like the shell of a dead supernova. The program was fully automatic and economical of everything W the energy eaten up by the tachyon transmitters -- and for ten thousand years there seemed to be an endless supply of that. XjL began to realize that their energy resources, though huge, were not infinite. The drone program was cut to a trickle. But it was never stopped and the great swelling bubble of drone ships expanded into globular clusters, out toward the neighboring galaxies, along the spiral arms, in toward the core of the Milky Way itself. It was a TWorlie drone that had buried itself on Pluto and been found by the exploration from Earth. Besides humans, TWorlie drones had brought into the galactic society at least a hundred races at one time or another, almost half of the total so far located. Another race might have thought of using that fact to establishdominance for itself, but the TWorlie didn't think that way. They had never invented empires, either. So when the T'Worlie began to be deeply interested in Object Lambda it was easy enough for them to find some hundreds of drones on courses and at points that were not too remote from it. The next job for the TWorlie computers was calculating which of these drones was on the course that would involve least time and energy to divert it to the neighborhood of Lambda with its high galaxyward velocity. Fortunately a handful of drones in that section had been redirected inward much earlier to fill gaps in the global screen. Among them was one whose course would match Lambda's in less than five years. After that there was no problem. The drone's matter receiver was put to work giving birth to automatic tools, hull sections, drive . units, instruments, finally people. The tools went to work, assembling the hull sections, installing the drives, making room for the people. What had been a tiny kick-ram -- no bigger than Earth's early Apollo capsule -- was transformed and expanded into a thousand-meter vessel with room for a crew of several hundred There was, to be sure, one problem. The rebuilt TWorlie ship, now named Aurora, was big, but it needed to be big. It did not possess a great deal of surplus mass. It was driven by the sequential explosion of hydrogen fusion charges, directional in a coneshaped blast against a great battering plate at its base. Not much of the radiation from the fusion explosions seeped through the base plate, but some did. Enough for ionizing radiation constantly to bathe the members of the crew. TWorlie and Sheliaks, Purchased People and bits, robots and humans all responded to this in their individual, idiosyncratic racial ways. But few complex chemical or electronic processes can operate without damage in the presence of ionizing radiation. It didn't matter who they were -- in the long run it came to much the same for all of them. They died. #a IF Ill bled to the corridor entrance and peered out. The vinegary T'Worlie smell was strong now and they could hear the sounds of something happening outside: a punctured-tire hiss, a faint high-pitched singing. A circus procession was sailing toward them down the center of the corridor. First came a TWorlie, bat's head on butterfly body, no bigger than a pigeon but strong enough to be carrying a kitten-sized furry creature with enormous saucer eyes. Behind the T'Worlie, as it flew with powerful strokes of its green-spotted filmy wings, came a glittering cloud of steel-blue particles -- like a swarm of gnats in the sun -- and behind them, coming fast but decelerating strongly because of its mass, the square-edged form of a Scorpian robot, all fore jets pumping reaction mass. The T'Worlie made its shrill whistling sounds and Hhe Pmal translator on Pertin's shoulder rat tied into life. "I identify you as a Pertin," it said with mechanical precision. "I propose you transfer at once to high-G accommodations suitable to your structure, mode urgent." "Why, Nimmie!" cried Ben James, suddenly inexplicably, foolishly glad. "It's good-to see you." The T'Worlie braked with its filmy wings and the five patterned eyes studied Pertin. "Verify your statement of identity," the Pmal translator rattled in his ear. "Query implications. Request quick clarification." "Why, it's me, Ben Ch -- Ben James Pertin. From Sun One. Why, just yesterday I saw you in the social concourse, remember?" But he stopped; this copy of the TWorlie he had known would not remember. The T'Worlie hesitated. It was some Nimmie or other, Pertin was sure; the key to recognizing T'Worlie was not the five eyes or the small sphincter mouth with its cat's-whisker vibrissae, but the patterns on the wings. Green spots predominating on a pale yellow background -- five of the bigger spots arranged in a sort of wobbly letter W, like the constellation Cassiopeia from Earth -- yes, it was Nimmie, all right, Pertin knew.But perhaps a Nimmie he had never met, in some different line of descent. The vinegary smell deepened. It was a sign of a polite cogitation in a T'Worlie, like a human being's Hmmm. But Nimmie did not respond, exactly. He was distracted by the swarm of tiny beings which Pertin recognized as the collective entity called Boaty Bits. They swept into the tachyon transport room, swirled around Pertin and the chimp and reformed under the T Worlie's wings. The kitten-like creature spoke with a voice like a purr. The transthat could not be carried on during lator rendered it as: "No time kiddeceleration times. The rest of the ding around, get hell out!" The time the entire ship suffered under a TWorlie concurred. "Mode ursurging, uneven, pulsing drive that gent. Accept transportation via averaged nearly seven gravities, robot. Your physical safety at The welcoming-and-transporting risk!"  committee barely got Pertin and Doc Chimp chattered, "I told Doc Chimp to a. place of refuge you I wasn't going to like this place, before the thrusters started again. Ben James. It isn't safe. Of course, The Boaty Bits had darted away at I'm only a monkey, so it doesn't the first warning white-noise matter much about me. It's you I "blast -- they could not operate at all worry about." "You're an ape," Pertin corrected automatically, his brain concentrating on what the TWorlie had said. "Sure, but an ape that knows what isn't safe. Come on, Ben James! Let's do like bat-ears says and split!" The decision was taken from Pertin. The Scorpian hissed slowly by, still decelerating. It came to a stop, reversed itself and began to pick up momentum for the return. And as it passed Pertin and Doc Chimp it simply caught them up, each under a silvery tentacle, and bore them away. In reverse order the procession steamed away -- first the robot with the two terrestrial primates, then the swarm of bit creatures, then the T' Worlie and its passenger. power was off only for short periods, long enough to permit instrument readings or other work under thrust and had to find safety lest they be stepped on. The: TWorlie and his passenger were next to go, leaving only the robot to see to tucking Pertin and Doc Chimp in. The robot had no particular objection to high gravity. Pertin had noticed that on the trip from the tachyon chamber. When the robot had to change direction it simply braced itself with a few of the steel-coil tentacles, stopped against whatever was in the way and pushed off in another direction,' The sensation for Pertin was like being tossed around at the end of a cracking whip, but he survived it. The thrusting started before the robot had finished sealing their cocoons and it was even worse then the ride. The cocoons were meant to protect them against it -- were tailor-made to their dimensions, equipped with the best of springing devices and every comfort. But there was no such thing as antigravity and that was what was needed. The. robot tarried for a moment. IF It could no longer jet about, but its tentacles held it easily off the floor, octopus-like. As the thrusts came they gave gently, then returned to position. It seemed to be trying to communicate. Pertin, looking out of the cocoon faceplate, shrugged and spread his hands. One Scorpian looked like another, but if this one had come from Sun One it might recognize the human gesture. The trouble was, there was no way to tell whether it was responding to it. Then the Pmal crackled into life: " -- not move. Prerequisite explanations to you. I am repeating this on all comm frequencies. Most imperative you not move. Prerequisite -- " The sound faded again as the robot evidently shifted to another possible frequency. "All right," said Pertin, "we'll wait." But whether the robot understood him or not he could not say -- it rested there on its tentacles, swaying under the thrust, for a few moments more and then undulated away. The probe was decelerating furiously now -- a roller-coaster ride multiplied by a hundred. There was a lot more noise then Pertin had expected -- the thudding of the nuclear engines and the screeching of the torsion-bar shock absorbers that did their best to leVel out the thrust, "Doc," he called. "Can you hear me?" The chimp's cocoon was only yards away, but the thuud-screech drowned out all other sounds. Pertin stared around. The room was half machine. Bright metal valves, gray plastic tubes coiling like dead entrails, colored screens where enigmatic symbols flickered and vanished. The walls were a sick, off-color green. No human would have designed a room like this, but of course it had not been designed for humans in the first place. It was a standard T'Worlie cocoon container, modified to take terrestrials. The thud-screech pounded on and on. Experimenting with the cocoon, Pertin discovered that it would meter an anesthetic dose into his veins -- or even a selective analgesic to deaden the auditory nerve for a time and block out the remorseless nuclear thunder. But he didn't want to sleep. He wasn't tired -- he wanted to get about his business. When your time is running out, he thought, you don't like to lose any of it. Then he discovered that the cocoon had a built-in stereo stage. The device was not wholly familiar, but with any luck he should be able to. reach Doc Chimp, at least. His first attempt was not a success. He gently turned a knurled pointer under the hollow silver hemisphere of the stage and was delighted to see it fill with the shining silver mist that indicated it was operating. But when the mist abruptly condensed it was to show the image of a nude blonde. "Mr. Pertin, sir," she caroled sweetly, "welcome aboard! Tonight for your entertainment, sir, you may watch me star in The Belle of Bellatrix. A thriller-drama of the love of a human beauty for a mutated alien and its fatal consequences. Feel the fear of the terrified girl! Share the wrath of her human lover! Feel the coils of the monster around her! Taste its dying blood! All these available by using the sen-sat coils in the small cabinet by your right hand. We have many other stereostage fiches, Mr. Pertin, and -- " He finally got the fiche turned off and the nude blonde vanished, still smiling. She dissipated as the camera zoomed in at her until at the end all that was left was a Cheshire-cat smile and the memory of her pale, slim figure. Then the stereo stage blinked, swirled with color, solidified and Doc Chimp's homely face was staring out at him. "Got you," cried Pertin, pleased. "I didn't think I would be so lucky." "You weren't," said the chimp. "I called you. I want to volunteer for something." The chimpanzee face looked subduedr Pertin said, "What?" "I think I ought to take a look around," said Doc Chimp sadly. "God knows I don't want to. But most of the beings will be tied down to pressure cocoons and I'm not." "Good idea," said Pertin, a little surprised. He hadn't known the chimp well on Sun One -- it wasn't that he was prejudiced .against mutated animals, but of course they didn't have much in common. But he had an impression of Doc Chimp's personality that was at variance with the act of volunteering for a solitary excursion into what might be trouble. Humorous, pleasure-seeking, a little lazy -- that was how he would have described the chimp. "And thanks," he added. "Meanwhile I'll just send a report to Sun One if I can figure out how to use this stereo stage." "Ah," said Doc Chimp, the mocking light in his eyes again, "allow me to instruct you, mighty human. You know, I figured you'd be too involved with high-level considerations to take much interest in hardware. So I checked out all the instrumentation with the TWorlie on Sun One before we left." Pertin to learn to operate the stereo stage in his cocoon -- it was not, after all, basically anything but a stereo stage and they were common all over the galaxy. Then he lifted himself on one elbow against the surging thrusts of the drive -- the cocoon's self-adjusting circuits buzzed busily, trying to compensate for his unusual position -- and watched the chimp cautiously lever himself # IF over the side of his own cocoon, timing his movements to the surging of the drive, drop clumsily to the floor, mutter to himself angrily for i moment and then slowly, painfully lurfiber off on all fours. He did not look back. Pertin felt curiously better, as though he had discovered a friend where he had expected only an inadequate tool. He worked the controls of the stereo stage, got himself a circuit through to the recording fiches of the tachyon communicator and spoke. "This is Ben James Pertin," he said, "reporting in to Sun One. Doc Chimp and I have arrived safely. There was no apparent problem from the transmission-r-at least, we look all right, are breathing and our hearts are working. Whether our brains are scrambled or not I could not say. No more than when we volunteered for this, anyway, I'd guess. We have seen very little of the probe, have contacted only a few of the personnel, but in general the situation appears much as we understood it. At present I am in an acceleration couch, waiting for the next period of free fall for further investigation. Doc Chimp, who is performing very well and deserves credit; has voluntarily left on a scouting mission. "I'll report again when I have something to say," he finished. "And -- personal to Ben Charles Pertin: Have a good time on my honeymoon." He snapped off the stage before he could decide to erase the last part of the message. In spite of the best efforts of the cocoon his kidneys were beginning to feel bruised. The noise was even more of a problem. Efficient soundproofing kept it out of the cocoon as airborne vibrations -- but there was too'much of it to be shut out entirely. It seeped through as a continual thunder and squeal. Pertin shut it out of his mind, thought of sleep, decided to brush up on his knowledge of the "hardware." His first attempt at the fiche library of the stereo stage was only half successful. He just managed to avert the reappearance of the bareskinned blonde and found he had secured a record transmitted by another member of the crew, race unspecified, apparently for a sort of public stereo-stage broadcast on its home planet. He shut out of his mind the public broadcaster he should have been getting ready to marry about this time -- some thousands of light-years away he was getting ready to marry her -- and discovered that the name of the vessel was the Aurora , or Dawn . The sound was, of course, different in the T'Worlie tongue and they had named it -- but he learned it held the same connotations of new day and bright glowing promise in both cultures. He also found that he had only limited facilities for recreation -- well, he had expected that. There were tape-fiche libraries for almost every known race of beings, some special high-pressure atmosphere chambers for a. few of the exotics. That was it. K i had not learned exactly what he wanted, so he tried again. But instead of getting a fiche on the ship itself he got one on its mission, evidently a briefing record dubbed for humans. It was narrated by a man Pertin recognized as a minor functionary on Sun One. He spoke in a high-pitched voice, smiling emptily at the stereo pickup: "We will show you all that is known about Object Lambda. First we will locate it, as it would be seen from Earth if visible at that distance." Behind the speaker another stereo-stage tank glowed, shimmered and filled with a universe of stars. Two of the brighter ones pulsed to call attention to themselves as the man spoke... "Those stars are Benetnasch in Ursa Major and Cor Caroli in Canes Venatici. Those faint stars over there -- " as he spoke a faint line of light ran around an area of the tank, enclosing it in a square -- " are in Coma Berenices, near the north galactic pole. Now we'll take a closer look." Benetnasch and Cor Caroli swam aside. The faint stars on Coma Berenices grew brighter, spreading apart, as the. whole field seemed to move. The bright points fled out of the sides of the stage, and the few remaining ones became brighter until only a few were left -- and beyond them ghostly faint blurs that were no longer part of the Milky Way but galaxies in their own right. TTie illusion of motion stopped. Another square of light formed around a patch of blackness in the center of the stage, indistinguishable from the emptiness around it. The man ' said, "Now we've reached the limits of Sol-orbiting instruments. Object Lambda is at the center of that square, but it is invisible. It is slightly better in the far infrared." The pattern of stars shimmered. Some became brighter, some dimmer, and in the center of the square appeared what might have been a faint and shapeless glow. "This is not instantaneous," explained the lecturer. "It's long exposure and image-intensified. The Object would never have been detected in routine sweeps from Sol-based instruments. Even the TWorlie scouts first detected it only because of a chance occultation of some stars in the Milky Way itself, seen from beyond. What we will show you next is not aa actual observation but an artifact as it would look from Earth, as deduced from all available observations." The object brightened a halfdozen magnitudes as he spoke. "As you see, it has a sort of tipped-disk IF shape, like certain classifications of external galaxies. However, that's not what it is. First of all, it is far too small, perhaps only two or three A.U. in diameter. Second, its spectrum is wrong. "At its apparent distance, as determined by its angular diameter -- if it were indeed a galaxy -- it should be receding at a major fraction of the speed of light. Of course we know from triangulation from the T'Worlie ships that that distance is wrong by a good many orders of magnitude. But according to its spectrum displacement it is actually approaching the Milky Way at nearly relativistic speeds." The image blurred and disappeared and the plump human was standing there by himself. He said with satisfaction, "The T'Worlie scout has confirmed the speed as accurate in the range of # kps. Its position relative to Earth is some # light-years from Sol, in the direction of a point near the northern fringe of Coma Berenices. It is not an object from our galaxy. There are no spiral arms in that direction and few isolated stars or clusters much nearer than Sol itself. "The T'Worlie backplotted its position from all observations of their drones, as recorded over the past several thousand years. Most of the data are ambiguous, but they did establish a probable line of flight. Their hope was to find a galaxy from which it might have been ejected and then to try to discover the reason for its high-velocity. "But they were only partly successful -- I should say, only possibly successful. No such galaxy was detected. They did, however, find scattered star swarms which they believe to be the fragments of a galaxy that collapsed and then years ago. It is the present working hypothesis that Object Lambda was ejected from that galaxy, by what means we cannot say." The speaker's expression became enthusiastic. "Because of the anomalous nature of Object Lambda," he said, "the all-race conference on Sol One decided to transmit a full-size scout ship through the drone equipment and to staff it with a crew of volunteers of all races." Volunteers! thought Pertin, grimacing. "And after considerable effort in negotiating, it was agreed to include Earth humans as part of the crew. The political implications of this step are of enormous consequence and reflect the true coming of age of Earth humanity in the galaxywide I confraternity of civilized peoples. Thank you," he said, bowed, smiled and disappeared as the fiche came to an end. Not a minute too soon, thought Pertin. A little more of that and he would have been ill. The cocoon had a fine built-in waste handling system, but there was no sense in overloading it. IV had been talking about when she accused him of an "Earthman's burden" complex. This whole deal sounded pompous, stupid and faintly threatening, he realized, as it was put by the man in the briefing fiche. He tried to get his mind off that track -- because he didn't want to question the cause for which he was, after all, going to die, and because above all he didn't want to think about Zara Doy. He was in the middle of trying to get The Belle of Bellatrix back on the stage when he became aware that something was scratching angrily at his cocoon. For a moment he thought he was dreaming. He glanced back at the fading nude on the screen, then out at the nude girl who stood there. But Pertin was a pretty superior type and he oriented himself quickly. It was no girl. It was not even human. It was a female young Earth person in shape, but the stuff of which the shape was constructed was not flesh and blood. I It was silvery and bright, with a metallic hue. The eyes were orange and glowing. The hair was not made up of separate tendrils; it was a single solid piece, sculptured slightly for cosmetic effect. The creature was, in short, he realized, an "edited" version of some methane-breather or even more exotic chemistry, some being who was structurally non-viable in oxygen-bearing air and had had itself transmitted in an altered form to take up tis duties on Aurora . And it was holding a scrap of what looked like paper. The paper was not right side up. Pertin gestured and Anally the "girl" understood and rotated it until, able to read it, he signaled her to stop. He read: Sorry, Ben James, but you've got to get out of there. Things are worse than we thought. Angel here will carry you to me. They guarantee she won't drop you and squash you and actually, Ben James, this seems to be a matter of life and death. The note was signed "Doc." The girl, did not speak, but the orange eyes blazed imperatively and the hands beckoned. Pertin sighed, and opened the lid of his cocoon. "Okay Angel," he said. "Carry me away." Astonishingly, being carried by the pseudo-girl was actually worse than being toted by the robot, but she moved more slowly and Pertin had a chance to see something of the ship. The Aurora was roughly cone-shaped. At the nose and through the midsection were living quarters for the several score individuals who manned it -- that was where they had entered to scene. Since the crew varied widely, it needed a good deal of room. Space had been provided for methanedwellers, space-flyers and cold IF creatures as well as the more comhowever, most of the nonviables had either stayed home or sent proxies or edited copies, so these spaces were largely empty. "Below" the living quarters and the space for the exotics were the hardware instrument sections. Below them still -- in the sense of being sternward, toward the thrusters -- was a layer of dense liquid for a radiation shield. It was not very effective, but of course, Pertin thought, it didn't have to keep them alive forever, since there was neither hope for nor point in the system's doing so. Below the shield wasthe tachyon transmission deck, where Pertin and the chimp had arrived. And beyond them, the thrusters and shock-absorbing gear. Since the Aurora was decelerating, it happened that the "stern" of the ship came first in line of flight, but that made little difference to anyone aboard. It was "down." And down was the direction they were going. The pseudo-girl had wrapped Pertin in a thick blanket of something like heavy-duty plastic fbam. It was not as good as his cocoon by a long shot, but it kept him from dying of the ceaseless grinding changes in gravity as the thrusters shoved and the "girl" levered herself down a ladder-like series of projecting rods. She did not speak, nor acknowledge Pertin's efforts to speak to her. Either there was something wrong with his Pmal translator or she simply was not a conversationalist. But she was considerate enough and when they reached the instrument deck Pertin was bruised and sick, but alive. "Ben James!" cried a familiar voice. "I told you Angel would get you here all right!" Doc Chimp, thin lips grinning widely, scrambled over to help the silvery girl put him down, propping him against a sloping bulkhead so he could look around. His shipmates were worth looking at -- a nightmare crew if he ever had seen one. Besides the pseudo-girl and the mutated chimp, there was a Sheliak in its high-G mode, looking like a flattened baker's bun on the deck. A web of plastic foam hid an apparently humansized figure. Pertin also saw a row of small cocoons. Two were empty -- the third contained a T'Worlie. From a speaker outside the cocoon a T'Worlie voice whistled a greeting and Pertin's Pmal translated: "I recognize your identity, Ben James Pertin. It is advantageous to all of us that you are here." "Thanks, Nimmie," said Pertin, but he was staring at the plastic wrappings. A human being seemed to be concealed, in them and, apart from himself, he knew of only one human being on the Aurora -- one he didn't really want to think about. He asked softly, "Doc, who's over there?" Doc Chimp said, "Who? Her? Oh, I don't know her name. She's Purchased People for some low-G type of other. But she's on our side." The wfcb stirred and a face peered out. It was human enough as far as features went, but the emptiness in the eyes told Pertin. that Doc Chimp was right. "Anyway," chattered the chimp, "I better fill you in. Hell's really broken loose, Ben James. A bunch of beings tried to wreck the telescope. Not sure but what they've done it, too -- the Scorpian's trying to see how much of it can be salvaged. If it and Angel here hadn't come along we'd be out of business till they could send new instruments through -- and by then it would likely be too late." The thuud-screech was a lot closer here -- apart from everything else, it was making Pertin's head pound. "What beings?" he managed to croak. "Didn't see them. I just saw somebody disappearing into a passage, and then the Shetiak here came hellfire fast after him and saw me. For a minute he thought I was them." Doc Chimp cocked his head ruefully. "You could have found yourself short a monkey right there, Ben James, if I hadn't talked fast. So he commandeered me to help and we came down here to hold the fort. Oh, how sore my soles and knuckles are, Ben James, against the pounding of those rockets! But I did my duty. Then we got the observatory deck sealed off -- they'd used a chemical explosive On the telescope and sprung a port -- and then I happened to think of my human master, off there watching The Belle of Bellatrix without a care, and I persuaded Angel to fetch you." Pertin frowned. "I don't quite see why," he objected. "I can't help.""You can stay alive," declared the chimp. "I didn't tell you all of it. When they came for the telescope they had to get past the T'Worlie here. Well, you know TWorlie can't do much against any being that can operate in highG. But they tried to do what they could. And two of them got killed." dinal rule among the races of the galaxy was that no race could ever kill Or seriously' maim a member of another. Even on Sun One disciplinary problems were handled within the delegation of the race that produced the problem. Some provision existed for a body of other races sitting in judgment if the offending race failed to deal with the problem, but it had never had to be invoked. Pertin would hardly have believed the chimp if Nimmie hadn't confirmed the facts. "They're crazy, then," said Pertin. "All right. We'll have to get a report back to Sun One. Nimmie, is your stereo stage operating?" "Confirm that it is operative," sang the Pmal in his ear. "State IF that such a transmission has already been sent." "Good. I'll have to send one, too, and I think the rest of us should, but that can wait." He tried to shift position as the floor surged particularly viciously. "Since we're here they probably won't try anything right away. What we need is a combout -- get every being on board to account for his whereabouts and try to identify the ones who did it. For that we need a little free-fall. Can we arrange that?" The silvery girl spoke at last. Apparently she had heard everything, had simply seen no need to comment. "We can have a little freefall. We can have a comb-out. We probably won't need to arrange it right away as next observation period is only -- " A meaningless squawk followed. Doc Chimp filled in: "She means about fifteen minutes away." It took a moment for Pertin to realize that the girl's words had been in English. He looked at her curiously. "Fine," he said. "How many were involved in the bombing?" "There were not less than three nor more than eight." piped the Pmal translator, responding to the T'Worlie's whistle. "Out of how many in the crew?" The TWorlie hesitated. "There are in excess of three hundred thousand beings at present existing within the ship hull. Of these a large number are collective creatures." "Not counting the Boaty Bits -- I mean how many individuals?" "There are not less then two hundred forty nor more than two hundred fifty." Pertin said, "So the troublemakers arc a tiny fraction. That's good. We'll broadcast a shipwide alarm. Most of the crew will cooperate -- " He stopped, staring at the silver pseudo-girl. "What's the matter?" She had stretched out her fingertips toward the entrance port, almost in the traditional pose of a human sleepwalker. "The matter," she said in her incongruous colloquial English, the tones as deep as Pertin's own, "is that the tiny fraction of troublemakers is coming back." I N A moment no one needed the silvery girl's fingers to pick up the audios -- the rushing sound grew rapidly louder, a harsh, crackling, electrical noise like the patter of a collapsing charge field. Into the room burst what looked at first like a single huge blue eye. "Sirian!" howled Doc Chimp in terror, and tried to leap out of the way. Even his simian muscles did not have the strength to leap against the suddenly surging G-force of the rockets. He stumbled and fell heavily against the silvery girl. At one stroke two-thirds of the beings able to move at all in the high-G field werq immobilized -- thd T'Worlie, the Purchased Person and Ben Pertin himself were wholly useless while the rockets were on. The Sirian, moving by electrostatic forces, was immune to mere # and #-G thrusts. He bore with him something that glittered, carried under the great forward eye in a pair of crablike pincers, tiny and almost invisible. Pertin, thrown heedlessly just inside the portal, was first in the creature's path. He did not even have time to realize he was in danger before the Sirian was upon him. Then, oddly, the great eye stared at him. The Sirian paused, hesitated and turned away. It propelled its glittering metal object at the bulkhead and at once reversed its field and sped away. If that was another bomb, Pertin thought, they'd all had it now; beyond that bulkhead was empty space from the last attack. The rest of the ship might be saved if the automatic seals worked fast enough, but he himself, the Purchased Person, Doc Chimp and the TWorlie would be boiled into outer space. But he had forgotten the Sheliak. The soggy baker's bun that slumped on the deck and had taken no part in the conversation was still in fact an able and intelligent being. It acted faster than Pertin would have believed possible. The bun shape elongated itself into a sort of stemmed sea anemone, flowed like lightning up and down around the bomb, surrounding it, drowning it in thick alien flesh. It expolded. The only sign the rest of them could see was a quick convulsive shudder of the Sheliak's tissue. Even the noise was muffled and almost inaudible in the constant thunder of the rockets. for a moment and, with a flash of the last light Of its life, died. They had defended themselves, but at the cost of one of their allies. As though on cue the thunder of the rockets stopped and they found themselves blessedly free of the crushing G forces. Doc Chimp, struggling to untangle himself from the silvery girl, went flying across the chamber, ricocheted against a wall and brought up short next, to where Pertin was struggling to disassociate himself from the plastic foam. "Are you all right, Ben James?" Pertin pushed himself free and caught the outstretched chimpanzee arm for stability. He ached in every bone and muscle and he was drenched in sweat from the trapped heat of the plastic wrap or from fear -- he could not say. "I think so," he said. "Why do you suppose he did that?" "What? Who? You mean the Sheliak? Why, I guess it's their nature, Ben James -- " "No, not the Sheliak," said Pertin, but he didn't say out loud what it was that was perplexing him. He only thought it to himself. Why had the Sirian look at him IF with death in his eye, then stopped and turned away? things wrong with Pertin's calculations. First, the odds weren't quite as favorable has he had guessed; he had not thought of the fact that the bombers might have allies who were as gravity-bound as himself and so hadn't put inan appearance. Second, he had not realized that most of the beings aboard the Aurora simply didn't want to be bothered with the mission. They were apathetic, hopeless, detached, or in some exotic mood with no human analogue. And perhaps, here and there, they just weren't about to take orders from an upstart biped from Earth. The other problem was that the work of the Aurora lay in observing Object Lambda, not in tracking down aberrant entities. Not even the fact that beings of one or two races had killed beings of another race could cloud the goal. The Scorpian robot, when it returned from patching together what it could of the damaged optical equipment, would not even take time to talk to Pertin. It went at once to its assigned place in the instrument chamber and began to oversee the series of observations -- this had been the reason, evidently, for the thrust stoppage. Pertin could not even get the freefall period extended to permit a full-scale search of the ship. TheTWorlie pointed out to him, reasonably enough, that since they were all going to die anyhow the first priority was the errand for which they had all undertaken to give their lives -- to complete the observation of Object Lambda. And the laws of celestial dynamics were remorseless. A certain quantum of delta-V had to be applied to Aurora's course. There was only finite time in which to do it. If they failed to put in the necessary velocity change the probe would fly past Object Lambda too fast to accomplish its several missions. So the TWorlie were going to work on their instrument observations and nothing else, although they certainly wished him well, they indicated, in his search for the guilty ones. What he had to work with-turned out tp be a party of five -- Pertin, Doc Chimp, the pseudo-girl, the Purchased-People woman and a small kittenish being who had joined the party to greet them on arrival. They couldn't even recruit the Boaty Bits to their cause. As soon as the collective creatures had learned of the bombing attempt they had departed en masse to swarm in some obscure corner of the vessel and unite all their intelligence on the problem of deciding what to do about it. Pertin saw a great deal of the ship, but found no criminals. The one being they had certainly identified, the Sirian, eluded their search. If a being the size of a horse, emitting an electrostatic crackle every time it moved, could avoid the searchers, what chance had they for locating a party of unidentified marauders? Not any chance, answered echo. They found nothing.V. plished was to move the acceleration cocoons for the low-G beings, whom they had come to think of as friends, close enough together so that they could watch out for each other when the delta-V thrust immobilized them. There were many such periods. By the nature of things, there had to be. It was thuuud-screech for at least eighty per cent of the time, cut up the individual portions as they would. The Aurora had thousands of kps of velocity to shed as it overtook Lambda, if they were to avoid overrunning it too fast for orbiting their package. It made little difference how it felt to the members of the crew. To Pertin it felt like being kicked in the kidneys four or five limes a minute for hours on end. With allowances for variations in anatomy, it felt very much the same to most of the beings. Frail little creatures like the T'Worlie were particularly hard hit -- or would have been if it hadn't been for the fact that the Aurora was their own design, cocoons and all, and many thousands of years of thought had gone into reducing the damage to a T'Worlie frame in a cocoon. It was an advantage of a sort, but against it was the overpowering debit that on their native planet the surface gravity was less than a quarter-G. They were not creatures designed for strain. The unfelt pain was the worst. ,Every explosion produced noise and thrust, but it also sleeted a few more curies of radiation through the crew's bodies and brought each member a few hours nearer to death. As the damage was not felt -- and asThere was nothing that could be done about it -- the beings seldom spoke of it to each other. For a half-dozefi periods no further violence bccurred on board and the Aurora went on about its business. Pertin reserved his time in the cocoon for taping his endless reports to Sun One and for inspecting and studying the observation results on Object Lambda. When there was the blissful floating surcease -- for half an hour or so at a time -- he used it to roam around the ship. His announced purpose was to watch out for trouble. As time passed and trouble did not come he stopped talking about it, but continued to roam. He was interested in the ship on its own merits. Simply by its novelty it helped take his mind off the growing number of things he didn't want to think about. The Aurora was the first real spaceship IF he had ever seen. The concept seemed strange to him, considered against the tens of thousands of light-years he had traveled since he volunteered for tachyon transmission from Earth. It was normal enough, though. Sun One was thick with beings who had crossed and recrossed the galaxy a dozen times and never seen a spaceship at all. Object Lambda was getting perceptibly closer -- not to the eye, to be sure. No eye on the ship was in a position to see it anyway. But the cameras were able to make out more and more detail -- not easily or well, because its intrinsic luminosity was so very low and in the low-energy long-wave part of the spectrum at that. They had even discovered that Lambda was not alone in space. Huge as it was, nearly two A.U. in diameter, it carried with it little orbiting fleas. The biggest of them was not much more than a mile through and the distance was still enormous, but the T'Worlie instruments had managed to detect them, even identify them. The longest periods of free-fall came when the T'-Worlie deployed their photon mirrors at the end of a tether, far from even the vibration of a footstep or shifting weight of robot mass in the ship -- then their optical emulsions greedily drank up the scant flow of photons from Lambda and converted them into images. If they had had a great deal of time, they could have answered all questions from there, or nearly all. They were in intergalactic space, and there was no such thing as haze beyond the advance scattering of their own rocket ejecta. But they had no time -- the delta-V equation still ruled them and one of its tricky parentheses said that deceleration earlywas worth twice as much as deceleration late, since it gave them more time to slow down before they reached  the neighborhood of Lambda. And then there was the mere fact of their rapid approach. The image did not remain still in the TWorlie mirrors. It grew. Minutely, to be sure, but enough so that an exposure for more than an hour or so began to fuzz. Even so, they learned. The nearest to pleasure Pertin ever found in a TWorlie was when a particularly fine series of photographs had been taken and it was found to show a hint, a shadow, finally an orbital line for the biggest of the objects that circled Lambda. The pleasure was spoiled for Pertin when the calculations of orbit and time turned out to be impossible; Lambda would have had to have the density of the solar wind to have such a slow satellite. ' But the TWorlie didn't mind. Explanations would come. If not then, later. V ding acceleration and the briefer periods of his frenzied darting about the ship, Pertin was nearly always bone-weary and aching. Sleep did not rest him. Communication with Sun One was more and more an effort. The twelve-hour wait between transmission and reply -- often it was more, when the other beings on the ship had queued up for their own transmissions -- destroyed the rhythm of communication. By the time he had a response to his report pf the attack on the instrument chamber he was already relaxing in his comforting awareness that the attack had not been repeated. Once he himself -- or anyway that other self named Ben Charles Pertin -- reported to him. The experience put Ben James Pertin into a tailspin that only a carefully metered dose of tranquilizers from the cocoon's store could deal with. From the expression on the other Ben Pertin's face, it was some strain for him, too. But the worst from Sun. One was not from his other self; it was from Gerald York Bielowitz, who acknowledged a report, suggested some additional instrument readings that would be desirable, started to sign off, hesitated and then added: "Oh, you'll be interested, I think. Zara Doy and Ben Charles were married three hours ago." Pertin did not remembef turning off the stereo stage or seeing the little figure collapse. He lay there for a long time while the cocoon stroked and soothed him, lifted him, lowered him, gently massaged what pains it could from his limbs. At some point he fell asleep. In his dream Ben Charles Pertin married Zara Doy, but he was Ben Charles and the two of them, intoxicated with the wine they drank and with each other, spoke sadly and wistfully about the other Ben Pertin who was busy about the task of dying on an alien spaceship a galaxy away. When he woke up and remembered he was that other Ben Pertin he was in an instant unfocused rage. him. "Hey, Boss," he whined. "Listen, wake up. I've been limping around this hellhole of a ship looking for the Scorpian robot and -- " "Shut up," snarled Pertin through the outside communicator of his cocoon. His tone took the chimp aback. He slumped on his haunches, staring at Pertin's cocoon. He was in bad shape, what he saw -- the bright green plume was sagging under the thrust of the rockets, the paws and knuckles were scarred and stained. That was why he was there, of course -- feet and paws. He could withstand the constantly varying Gforce of the thrusters with only a good deal of pain, so it was his job to do what Pertin could not when he was bound to the cocoon. A part of Pertin's brain told him that if he IF tried he probably could find ways of making the job easier. The chimp's expression abruptly Vas no longer woebegone. It was angry. "Sure," he said thickly, "I'll shut up. Why not? We'll all shut up before long. Dead beings are all pretty quiet." Pertin fought to control his anger. "We'll be dead all right. What difference does it make? Do you think this is a real life, what we're doing here? Back on Sun One we're alive and well -- this is only a dream!" The chimp wailed, "Ben James', I'm tired and I hurt. I'm sorry if I said something wrong. Look, I'll go away and come back, only -- " "Do that," snapped Pertin, and turned off the outside communicator. The agitated hairy face stared dolefully in at him. Doc Chimp was by no means a jungle primate. The shape of his skull was different. The structure of his respiratory system was different. The very chemicals that flowed in his blood were different. But he was not human either. Doc Chimp -- his formal name was not that, but it was all Pertin had ever called him -- was one of the mutated animals that had been constructed for special purposes in the molecular biology plants on Earth. His quadridexterous limbs made the ape particularly useful even in free-fall, where he could fling himself about with perfect ease from toe-rest to hand-hold, while humans like Pertin clumsily sprawled and spun. But he had his drawbacks. A chimpanzee is simply not a human. His physiology is one count against him. He cannot develop the brain of a human because his skull is the wrong shape -- and because the chemistry of his blod does not carry enough nourishment to meet the demands of abstract thought. He cannot fully master speech because he lacks the physical equipment to form the wide variety of phonemes in human language. The molecular-biology people knew how to deal with that. They could do things like widening the angle of the cranium called the kyphosis, thus allowing the brain to round out full frontal lobes, or restructuring tongue and palate, even adding new serum components to the blood like the alpha # globulins that bind human hemoglobin. In practical terms what had been done to Doc Chimp and his siblings was to speed up evolution. But that was not quite enough. Two generations back Doc Chimp's ancestors could form only one or two of the simplest words and learn rote trljks -- they lacked conceptual thought entirely. Doc Chimp had capacity. He did not have background or tradition. His # kyphosis was close to the human average so that his skull was domed -- he possessed a forehead, could remember complicated instructions and perform difficult tasks. He was capable of assimilating the equivalent of a tradeschool education in skill and of conducting the equivalent of cocktail-party conversation in performance. What he lacked was ego. His psychological profile was high in cyclothymia but also in ergic tension -- he was always adventurous and always afraid. His emotional index was about equal to a human five-year-old's. Frightened, he ran. Angered, he struck out. Baffled, he wept... Staring back through the cover of the cocoon, Pertin relented. "Sorry," he said, snapping the communicator back on. "What were you trying to tell me?" "I've lost the Scorpian," wailed the chimp, "Well? Are you supposed to be his keeper?" "Be easy on me, Ben James," begged the chimpanzee. "I hurt all over. The robot was supposed to be getting ready for some new instruments that were coming in. He isn't there. The stuffs piling up in the transmission chamber and nobody to do anything about it. I'm afraid it'll get damaged." "What about what's-her-name -- Angel? Can't she store it?" "She's trying. But the Scorpian is a specialist in this stuff and she isn't. None of the other high-G creatures is, as far as I can tell and -- oh, Ben James, I've traveled so far trying to find someone who can help!" He was a pitiable sight, his fur .unpreened, his gay clothes smudged and wrinkled. Pertin said, "You've done your best. Doc. There is nothing I can do until the thrust stops -- half an hour or so. Why don't you rest up for a while?" "Thanks, Ben James!" cried the chimp gratefully. "I'll just take a few minutes. Wake me, will you? I -- I -- " But he was already clambering into the cocoon, his spiderlike arms shaking with strain. Pertin lay back and closed his own eyes, allowing the cocoon to do its best, which amounted to increasing its rate of stroking his back muscles, trying mindlessly to calm him down. It had seemed very easy, back on Sun One, to volunteer for a task even though the end of it was his certain death. He had not counted on the fact that death did not come like the turning of a switch but slowly and with increasing pain -- or that he would be watching friends die before him: when finally he could move. He thrust his own way to the tachyon transmission chamber, hurling himself down the corridors carelessly and almost slamming into what turned out to be the silver, pseudo-girl. He didn't recognize the creature at first, for she had unfurled enormous silver-film wings and looked like a tinsel Christmastree angel as she rushed past him. IF . In the tachyon chamber he found the TWorlie, Nimmie, supervising an octopoidal creature from one of the Core stars in transporting crated equipment to an empty chamber. "What's happened? Where did Angel go? What's this stuff?" Pertin demanded, all at once. Nimmie paused and hung in the air before him, balancing himself against stray currents of air with casual movements of his wings. He whistled a methodical answer and the Pmal translator converted it to his stately and precise form of speech in English: "Of those events which have occurred that which appears most significant is the arrival of eight hundred mass units of observing equipment. A currently occurring event is that this equipment is in process of being installed. A complicating event is that the Scorpian artificial-intelligence being has elected to engage his attention in other areas. There are other events but of lesser significance. The being you name Angel has gone to bring the Beta Bootis collective beings to assist in the aforesaid installation. The reason for this is that they are catalogued as possessing qualifications on this instrumentation similar to tjiat of the artificial-intelligence Scorpian. The precise nature of the stuff is tachyar observing equipment. I offer an additional observation -- the purpose of it is to map and survey Object Lambda. I offer another additional observation -- it will add to the radiation load by a factor of not less than three nor more than eight." The T'Worlie hung silently in front of him, waiting for him to respond. It had a long wait. Pertin was trying to assimilate the information he had just received. Afactor of not less than three... That meant that his life expectancy was not a matter of months or weeks. It might only be days. Tachyar was simple enough in concept. It was like the ancient electromagnetic radar sets of Earth -- the difference was that it used the faster-than-light tachyons to scan a distant object and return an echo of its shape and size. Like ancient radar and sonar, tachyar generated a beam and measured reflections. The problem in using tachyar was the magnitude of the beam. Vast energies were used and the fraction wasted because of the natural inefficiency of the process produced ionizing radiation in large amplitudes. Sun One must be taking the question of Object Lambda's satellites seriously if it was sending tachyar equipment to study them. The cost was high. It would be paid in the shortened lives of those aboardr T HE single planet of the goldenyellow star Beta Bootis was like a cooler, older Venus. Because it was farther from its sun it was spared the huge flow of heat that cooked Venus sterile, but it possessed the same enormously deep, enormously dense atmosphere. It was spared the loss of its liquid water and its surface was covered an average of thirty miles deep in an oceanic soup. That was where the Boaty Bits had evolved. Aquatic in origin, they could survive on Sun One or the probe ship only in edited forms adapted for air-breathing -- they could not live on high-gravity planets at all, since they had only the feeblest mechanisms for propelling themselves about their native seas. An individual Boaty Bit was about as useful as an infant jellyfish, and not much more intelligent. That didn't matter. The Boaty Bits never operated as individuals. Their swarming instinct was overpowering and linked together they had a collective intelligence that was a direct function of their Boaty Bits equaled a man. On their home planet they sometimes joined tr more, but those groupings could be maintained only briefly even in their oceans and were never attained in their air-breathing edited forms. When they arrived in the tachyon receiver chamber, they immediately took command. They were not specialists in tachyar gear. They were generalists. The skills required to assemble and install the crated instruments were built into their collective intelligence. What they lacked was operating organs, but the T'Worlie, his octopoidal assistant, Ben James Pertin and every other being who came nearby were conscripted to be their hands and legs. It was slow work. It would have been impossible in a gravity field for the T'Worlie or even for Pertin himself. But in free-fall they were able to tug and guide the components into place and the T Worlie had mass enough to make the connections and calibrate the equipment. When they were nearly done Doc Chimp turned up, angry because he had been left behind, and his muscle finished the job quickly. As they were closing up, a blast of white sound came from the tachyon receiving chamber and warning lights flashed. Doc Chimp spun around, his wide jaw gaping. "Something important coming in?" he guessed. "I don't know, but let's go look." They thrust themselves toward the chamber, got there just as the portal opened. Three Sheliaks emerged. They flashed out of the lock with a hollow hooting, long black shapes that rocketed toward the watching Terrestrials and bounced down on the green metal surface of the chamber. They clung in spite of the lack of gravity and flowed abruptly IF into new shapes -- black velvet globes, thigh high. Three more emerged -- and three more. When Fifteen had come to rest on the floor of the chamber the transmission stopped. Without a detectable sign all of them moved in synchronization. From flattened spheres, like baker's buns set in a tray, they suddenly turned luminous, flowing with patterns of soft color, -- then elongated themselves and stretched up tapered necks that rose as tall as a man. The tallest of them, the first through the chamber and the nearest to Ben James Pertin, made a noise like compressed gas escaping. Pertin's Pmal unit translated: "Take notice. We are under the direction of the collective council of Sun One. We are to take command of this vessel and all other beings aboard are to follow our orders." Pertin's curiosity was suddenly transmuted into anger, a radiant rage that flooded his mind and overruled his inhibitions. "The hell you say! I've had no such instructions from the Earth representatives and I deny your authority." The Sheliak paused, the long neck swaying back and forth. "Your wishes are immaterial," it stated at last. "We can destroy you." Doc Chimp chattered nervously, "Don't make him mad, Ben James. You know how Sheliaks are." Pertin did; they were among the few races carrying built-in weaponry. On the infrequent occasions when the galaxy found itself troubled by unruly barbarians Sheliaks were employed to quiet the opposition -- they were the Foreign Legion of the galaxy. The long neck swayed toward the mutated chimpanzee. From the narrow orifice at its tip, sound exploded again and the translators shouted at the chimp: "Your name. Your function. Reply at once." "I am Napier Chimski, technician," the chimp replied bravely. The vase shape swung toward Pertin. "Your name and function." "Oh, Ben James Pertin," he said, distracted by hearing Doc Chimp's real name for the first time. "I'm an engineer. But don't go so fast. I've just come from Sun One myself and I know there's no authority for one race to impose its will on another. I will certainly report this at once." The Sheliak swayed silently for a moment -- first toward him, then away. At last it said, "No orders for-you at present. Go about your business." Pertin drew himself up, holding to a wall brace. "You're my business," he said. "There are murdering beings aboard this ship. If you're here by order of Sun One as you say, why don't you go find them and leave us alone?" The Sheliak did not reply. All fifteen of them were swaying silently now. Perhaps they were conferring with each other -- Sheliaks had learned vocal sounds only to talk to other races of the galaxy and the riddle of how they communciated among themselves was still unsolved. "I certainly will report this," Pertin added. There was still no response. The pointless confrontation might have gone on, but it was interrupted by the bright thrice-repeated flash of white light that meant the thrusters were about to go into operation again. "Oh, hell," groaned Pertin. "Doc, we'd better get back to our cocoons." "Never too soon for me, Ben James," agreed the chimp fervently, staring at the Sheliaks. "Let's go." Doc Chimp and Pertin raced for the cocoons. The warning had cauglit, others short. The corridors were full of low-G beings hurrying back to safety before the fusion rockets began again. The Boaty Bits arrowed along at top velocity, like a cartoon drawing of a swarm of wasps. An octopoidal creature launched itself from a wall off the end of the corridor with a multiple thrust of its legs and spun away, tentacles waving crazily. There was a thundering roar and three Sheliaks raced off, then another three and another, in V formations. A being like a six-legged spider monkey bounced back and forth, scratching and clawing for footholds, whining irritably to itself in a high-pitched tone. And abruptly: "Ben James -- look." Doc Chimp was staring down a broad transverse corridor. Pertin saw a creature like an enormous blue eye, at least a foot across. It swerved as he looked, revealing the body behind the eye -- a tapered torpedo shape glittering with patterned scales like blue glass. A stubby wing spread on each side, the leading edge thick and scaled and flowing smoothly into the body, the thin trailing edge a flutter of blue. Beyond the creature Pertin saw something bright, nfietallic and angular. "It's the Sirian, Ben James. The one that tried to kill us all. And wasn't that the Scorpian robot with him?" Pertin reached out, grabbed a handhold and checked himself. The chimpanzee reacted a moment later and also stopped himself a yard or two farther down. "What are you doing, Ben James?" "I'm going after them," Pertin snapped. "The Sirian's one of the murders. And the robot's up to something, too." "No, Ben James! You can't take the G-force. Let's let the Sheliaks take care of them -- that's what they're here for." The featureless green light of the corridor faded and changed to a dull crimson glow. That was the IF short-term warning -- less than thirty seconds remained before the rockets began. Pertin cursed. The chjmp was right, of course. "Oh, hell," he groaned. "All right, let's go -- " VI ) time to spare. They rolled into their cocoons as the first thrust struck and a moment later the regular repeated sound of the rockets reached them. The webbing spread itself over Pertin -- he fell into the warm, receiving shape of the cocoon, but resisted its comfort. While it was still adjusting to his shape he was stabbing at the controls of the stereo stage, trying to summon all the cocoon-bound beings on the ship into conference. The automatic dialing circuits were equal to the job -- the call was not something that was often made, but the physical capacity for such a conference existed. But not this time. All lines were busy. Every being on the ship, it appeared, was already using his stereo stage for purposes of his own -- most likely frying to transmit a tachyon message to his own people at Sun One, Pertin knew. He fell back-and let the cocoon massage him. Thuuuuud-screech. Thuuuuuud screech. The thrust felt more powerful than before, the tempo a bit faster. The thunder and groan of the drive made it nearly impossible forPertin to think, but he had to think. The problem on his mind was not one of the obvious ones -- what to do about the Sheliaks, how to deal with the murderers, the completion of the mission. His mind worried at those a moment at a time and then let them go. They required action, not thought, and action was not available to him while the fusion rockets roared. Instead he thought about his unpleasant discovery that there wasn't much in being a hero. His heroism had been entered into lightly enough, but he supposed that was not in itself rare. How many Medal of Honor winners had volunteered for a combat patrol simply because they were bored with sitting in a foxhole -- Ind had found themselves caught up in events that made them immortal reputations? But his heroism was hot even going to get him a medal. No one would ever really know what was happening on this ship, because it was absolutely certain there would be no survivors. Either Aurora's mission would succeed -- in which event the galaxy at large would accept the crew's sacrifice complacently-or it would fail. In the latter case the beings on board would all be thought of, when they were thought of at all, as that sorry bunch that wasted itself for nothing. Ben James Pert in bounced about in his acceleration couch, trying to make terms with a double-bind. His was the first generation of men who knew that they could live -- somehow -- until they died of old age. This would be true even if they were run over by a truck or murdered by a lunatic. Ben Pertin might die, but Ben Pertin would live. Pertin and his fellow humans who had duplicated themselves for tachyon transmission were not immortal. They owned all the decaying weaknesses of the flesh. Their brain cells grew fewer in number every day, like yours and mine. The collagen hardened in their tissues. The calcium migrated remorselessly from bone to blood vessel. They would die, each of them. But each one of them had the statistical certainty that not all of him would die prematurely. One Ben Pertin might die of cancer, another of pneumonia. One might succumb to an OD of the drugs that made these paradoxes briefly tolerable for some. Another might cut his throat. Another might perish pointlessly in an expendable job. But some Ben Pertin (who would always be the Ben Pertin to himself, at least) would survive and throw off as many identical copies of himself as he wished or circumstances required. It gave them a certain courage in the face of death. The personal involvement that every other generation of man had felt -- the shrieking rage that when he went some irreplaceable part of the universe would be gone forever -- was no longer there. They were not individually irreplaceable at all -- they replaced themselves with tachyon copies. Nevertheless, when each of them died he felt that death as a death and saw it as the same grinning skull of fear that it had been for Adam. And when that death was close it was terrifying. With the thud and rasp of metal roaring at him, his cocoon seesawing in the violent deceleration of the rockets, tired, sick, angry and hopeless, Ben James Pertin faced the fact that there was nothing left in his life anywhere that would give him one more moment's joy. thousands of light-years away, was trying to soothe his bride. He said, "Honey, I knew what I was getting into when I through with it. That other me on the ship doesn't feel any different about it." Zara Pertin said harshly, "That other you is going to die, Ben Charles." "But I'll still be alive." "And he'll be dead. Don't you IF understand me? I love you. And he is you-and I don't like to think about what is happening to him." She turned over, giving her back a chance to collect some of the UV tan from the lamps overhead, and took off her goggles. She said, "What's it like there now, Ben?" "Well -- " he said. "No, I want to know. Tell me." Ben Charles looked around the simulated little beach beside the great water tank that was their "ocean." No one else was near the spot -- he and Zara had come here for that reason, but Ben Charles found himself wishing for an interruption. She turned her head and looked at him and he shrugged. "All right. It's bad," he said. "The sensors in his acceleration cocoon already report some destruction of the white corpuscles. Pretty soon he'll start having nosebleeds -- then he'll bleed internally. He'll be getting weaker, running a temperature. He has had more radiation than he can recover from and he keeps getting more. Before long he'll die." He paused, then answered his wife's unspoken question: "He'll probably go within a week." Ben Charles propped himself up on one arm -- an easy posture. Even here the effective gravity was only a negligible fraction of Earth-normal. He looked out at the thousand-foot cusp of water, curving upward to meet the bulkhead at the far end. Other water-tolerant beings were using the reservoir for their own equivalents of sport -- it was a favorite spot for such purposes. But none of the others were human. Ben Charles Pertin worried for a moment at the permanent problem of what he meant when he spoke of death. He came to several conclusions. The first was that it was spoiling his honeymoon. The second was that he did not feel as though he were dying -- in spite of the fact that he knew that some light-years away he was doing just that -- and even there loving Zara. The third was that he could not spend any more time on that particular concern. The bad thing about dying, he reflected, was that you leave someone grieving -- and Zara, he knew, was grieving. This brought him back to the question: who was dying? He looked at his wife. She was not weeping now, but she had been. The stain of drying tears lay at the corners of her eyes, "I'm sorry, honey," he said. She shook her head without words. After a moment he made himself add: "It might not even be a week. Radiation alone will give him a few days, but there are plenty of other things on the probe that could kill him. Some of the beings are becoming violent. The electronic ones are malfunctioning, because the radiation affects their synapses. They're going insane, really. A lot of the organic ones are sick. All of them are scared. There have been deaths. From violence." "I should have gone with you," Zara said thoughtfully. "Oh, now, really! That's stupid! What would be the point?" "I would have felt better about it -- and so would you. He." She stood up, smiling, her mind made up. "If you have to go again, dear," she said, "I'm going, too. Now I'm hungry. Race you back to the apartment!" of the little bodies orbiting Lambda -- the mass estimates were right, thus the density estimates were right. Object Lambda's average density was about that of a high vacuum. Nevertheless, it appeared to have a solid surface. Pertin greeted the news with apathy. There were more immediately important developments on the ship and the ultimate purpose for which the ship existed didn't seem particularly interesting hriy more. For one thing, the tachyon transmission chamber was shut down. For better or for worse, there would be no more imports, no additional beings, no additions to the crew -- nothing. The chamber's last function had been to bring in freshly minted structural members and drive units. They were now being assembled into a small drone. It took form as a squat dense object, all fusion drive and instruments with no living space for a crew. It wpuld have no crew. It would carry, nothing but itself and the tachyon receiving crystal that had been the Aurora's. Pertin had no part in the construction project. The Boaty Bits directed it and the metal pseudo-girl and a few other high-G types carried it out. He looked in on it once or twice. Besides the structural part, brought in on the tachyon receiver, the small ship used bulkheads and beams from Aurora itself. It seemed to Ben James Pertin that vital parts of the parent ship were being seriously weakened. The fact interested him as an engineer. As a being whose life depended on the structural integrity of the Aurora he didn't consider any concern he felt worth mentioning. Whatever was happening was planned. If the life of the Aurora was being shortened thereby, it was because the beings doing the planning had decided the ship was wholly expendable. The only non-expendable part of the Aurora now was the little drone being put together in its belly. The drone comprised only three elements: A tiny tachyon receiving unit -- built around the crystal from Auroras own -- in a globular body fitted with weak handling-propulsors, suitable only for correcting minor errors in the elements of an orbit. A thick half-shell of metalIF bonded ceramics on one side, an ablation shield designed to flake and burn away, disposing of excess heat. And, outside the ablation shield, the enormous fusion-propulsion engines. It was a high-deceleration drone. It would be launched from the mother ship at some point near Object Lambda. Its fusion jets would slow it radically. Stressed as it was, with no living creatures aboard, it could endure hundred-G delta-V forces. But Pertin's engineer's eye recognized the implications of the design. Even those forces would not be enough. The drone would make use of Object Lambda's enormously deep atmosphere as well. It would dip into it, shedding velocity by burning it off as friction, blazing like a meteorite from its ablation surfaces. That frightful crunch would slow it to manageable relative speeds -- as it came out of its first skip into Lambda's air it would be close enough to orbital velocity for capture. Then its propulsors could take over the simpler job of making neat the elements of the orbit -- and a tachyon receiver would be in place around Object Lambda. What about the mother ship? The implications were clear to Pertin. All the evidence he needed was obvious in the construction of the probe. If such forces were needed to put the probe in orbit, there was no hope that Aurora could join it. Its kilotons of mass were simply too great for the forces available to deal with. Even if the forces were available its living cargo would be pulped by the deltaV. Aurora would drop its cargo, flash by Object Lambda and continue through intergalactic space. It would no longer have fusion mass for its reactors. It would stop decelerating -- to all intents and purposes, it would be only another chunk of intergalactic debris on a pointless orbit to nowhere. Its course would continue to take it toward the galaxy itself. In time it would approach some of the inhabited worlds within mere lightyears, perhaps. But that time would come too late to matter to anyone. It was a matter of thousands of years of travel time to even the fringe stars of the galaxy -- and by then there would be little left of even the dust of its crew. They had been written off. tion phases were getting longer, the zero-G pauses for observations shorter and less frequent. Sun One had lost interest in the observations that could be' conducted from Aurora. It was only waiting for the secondary probe to go into orbit. All through the ship, the living crew members were showing attrition. They were weaker and less rational, less capable of fine distinctions. The automatic machinery was running the ship. As it poured the last of its fuel reserves into space to brake its flight it manufactured enormous clouds of radioactive gas. They were not a hazard to the ship's crew -- it was too late for such trivial affairs to matter to the doomed beings. But they had caused some concern to the planners on Sun One. A thousand generations later they might be a pollution problem. But by then, no doubt, tachyon transport would itself have been superseded and no one would any longer trouble with such primitive concerns as the The gas clouds as they departed did leave some trace of ionizing radiation, added to the larger increments from the blasts themselves and from the tachyar. The combined radiation was a witches' brew of gammas and alphas and betas -- now and then primary particles that coursed through the entire space of the ship from hull to hull struck an atomic nucleus and released a tiny, deadly shower of secondaries. It was the secondaries, the gammas, that did the dirty work. They interfered with the electronic functions of the computers, robots and metal beings. They damaged the instrumentation of the ship. Above all, they coursed through the organic matter they encountered, knocking out an electron here, loosening a molecular bond' there, damaging a cell nucleus, making a blood vessel more permeable. The whole organic crew was on hourly doses of antirads, giving support to their internal workings. It was not enough. Still the radiation soaked in and struck at them. Blood, ichor, sap or stew of exotic biologies, the fluids that circulated in their bodies changed and grew less capable of supporting life. Physically they grew weaker. Mentally they became cloudy. Taken out of the environment and rushed to an anti-rad clinic -- like victims of an industrial accident -- many of them still could have been saved. But there was no place to take them. No part of the ship was free of penetrating ionizing radiation and every hour more and more of the chemistry of their bodies was damaged. of Doc Chimp. Pertin roused himself. The thud and screech of the drive was still loud in his ear. Every time the floor drove up to meet the cocoon the single huge bruise his body had become screamed with pain. Inside his chest his lungs felt as though they had broken loose and were beaten sore against the inside of his rib cage. He peered Wearily out of the IF cocoon. The chimp was staring pathetically up at him. The great green plume of his hat was broken. His fur was splotched with dirt and blood. The rubbery features of his face looked almost as they always had, except for an open cut along the flat, sculptured nose. "What?" demanded Pertin thickly. "I have to hide, Ben James. The Sheliaks are after me." Pertin tried to sit up and could not. "They're not here to hurt you," he pointed out. The chimpwhimpered, bobbing on all four limbs as he braced himself against the rocket thrust. "They will! They're mad, Ben James. They killed the T'Worlie. For nothing -- just killed him. And they almost killed me." "What were you doing?" "Nothing! Well, I -- I was watching their mating ritual. But that wasn't it -- " "You idiot," groaned Pertin. "Look, can you climb in here with me?" "No, Ben James, I don't have the strength." "It's either that or let them catch you." The chimpanzee whimpered in fear. Then abruptly, on the upsurge of the ship against its shock absorbers, sprang to the side of the cocoon. Pertin grabbed at him and pulled him inside just as the next thrust caught them. Doc Chimp weighed some two hundred pounds at Earth's surface. The delta-V gave him a momentary weight of nearly half a ton, all concentrated on Pertin's shoulder and chest. He grunted explosively. The chimp was caught with part of his side still across the metal lip of the cocoon, but he made no sound beyond the steady sotto-voce mumble of fear. Pertin tried to make room behind him, in a place where the cocoon had never been designed to take a load. It tried its mechanical best to give support to the double mass. It was not adequate to the job. Pertin discovered when the next thrust came that his arm was still caught under the chimp. He helped, managed to free it on the upsurge, discovered it was not broken. He slammed down the privacy curtain, hoping the Sheliaks would not look inside if they came. "Now," he panted, "what did you say about Nimmie?" "He's dead, Ben James. They killed him. I didn't mean any harm," the chimp sobbed. "You know how the Sheliaks reproduce -- by budding, like terrestrial plants. The young ones sprout out of the old ones and grow until they're mature enough to be detached." "I know." Pertin had only the vaguest acquaintance with Sheliaks, but everybody knew that much. They didn't havesexes, but their conjugation provided a union that shuffled up the genes. "Well, that didn't look like fun to me, but I wanted to see. Nimmie told me to go away. He couldn't -- he was in one of the spare cocoons, and couldn't move. But he said they'd be mad." The chimp switched his position and Pertin shouted in pain as his upper thigh took part of the chimp's weight on a rocket thrust. "Sorry, Ben James. It was disgusting, the way they did it! Any two of them can get the urge. They sort of melt down and flow together like jelly. All the body cells migrate, pair off and fuse. Finally they form again into a sort of cactus-shaped vegetable thing that buds off haploid, mobile creatures. Those are the Sheliaks we see." "You wanted to watch that?" asked Pertin, almost able to laugh in spite of discomfort, in spite of Nimmie, in spite of everything. "Yes, Ben James. Just for curiosity. And then there's my friend. Fireball. He's the Sheliaic who was here all along. He was nice, Ben James. I miss him." "I didn't know you knew any Sheliaks." "Not well. But he was with me, helping to guard all of you. And we talked." "You sound as if he's dead, too." "Might as well be. That union is a sort of individual suicide. It's something you do for the race and because your glands push you that way. But it's the end for the individual. It wipes out all conscious memory and individual personality. I guess that's why Fireball couldn't understand our notions of sex. "Anyway," he said, "it was all right while Fireball was here alone. He wasn't lonely; or anyway, he didn't want any other Sheliaks around. When they're in danger, you see, they just can't help conjugating. It's a survival mechanism. The radiation was danger, and he knew that the only way for him to keep alive was to stay away from his own people. When the new ones came aboard he was actually afraid of them. He knew when they came close they were likely to set off a biological process they couldn't control. And when it was over -- " The chimp swallowed. He thrust himself up on an elbow, regardless of pain, and stared into Pertin's eyes. "He didn't know me, Ben James! The two new ones that were half him, they came after me. The T'Worlie saw what was happening and tried to stop them -- and that's how I got away, while they were there to run to in this ship?" they found the T'Worlie easily enough. He was floating upside down, purplish drops of blood, perfectly round, floating beside him. The little vibrissae around his sphincter mouth, more like cat's whiskers than anything on a proper earthly bat, were perfectly still. Nimmie was rigid. The pattern of IF five eyes was unmoving. The intricate pattern of blotches of color on his filmy wings was fading,. There was no one else around. "What'll we do with him, Ben James? chattered the chimp. "Throw him out into space, I guess," Pertin said harshly. Normally the mass would Be useful in the tachyon receiver, but there were to be no more incoming tachyon transmissions. It didn't do to think of that. He stared at the TWorlie. A slow incrustation of a thick gel was matting the fluffy surface of Nimmie's chest, and where it had once protruded sharply, like a bird's wishbone, it was crushed and concave. Pertin felt the muscles on his face drawing taut, perhaps partly because of the intense vinegar reek. He said, "Why would the. Sheliaks break up equipment?" The chimpanzee stared at the mess in the room. Bright green and orange transistors and microchips were scattered like jigsaw pieces in the air. "I don't know, Ben James! None of that was that way when I ran out of here. Do you suppose they just lost their temper?" "Sheliaks don't lose their temper that way. They broke up instruments on purpose. What was coming in before you decided to play Peeping Tom?" "Oh -- " The chimp thought. "More reports on Object Lambda. The density was confirmed. Very low. Like a sparse cloud of interstellar gas." "We already knew it was CloudCuckoo Land. That couldn't have had any effect on them." "Something did, Ben James," cried the chimp. "Look, we've got to do something. They'll be looking for me, and -- " "Unless," said Pertin thoughtfully, "it wasn't the Sheliaks who did it. The robot was. up to something. And there are still a couple of Purchased People not accounted for me, and -- " "Too late!" howled the chimp. "Listen, Ben James! Somebody's coming!" B UT it wasn't the Sheliaks who 'came in on . them -- it was Angel, the silver pseudo-girl, the heavy-planet creature in human form. Her fingers were. outstretched toward them, listening, as her great foil wings drove her forward. Behind her came the Scorpian robot. They made an eerie pair, the striking orange-eyed girl with her coif of metallic hair and steel-bright body hues and the mechanical creature shaped like a metal octopus. Its central body was a massive disk, the color of the pseudo-girl's flesh, and its silvery tentacles made a fringe of snakes, around it. A greenish membrane that bulged above the upper surface of the disk fluttered, producing a drum-roll of sound. Pertin's Pmal translator obediently turned it into recognizable words: "Do not resist. We wish you to come with us." "Where?" he demanded. There was no answer, at least not in words. Pertin was caught in something like a metal whip that stung a trail of fire around his waist. It was one of the robot's tentacles. It pinned his arms and the pseudo-girl launched herself at him, her metal fist catching him full in the face. Floating as he was, the blow was robbed of some of its force, but it doubled him, flung him back against the robot's lash, dazed with pain and sobbing for breath. He heard a cry of anguish from Doc Chimp, but could not turn to see what was happening. The vinegary smell of the dead T' Worlie penetrated his nostrils, mixing with the tang of his own blood. "Why?" he croaked, and tried to raise his arms to defend himself as the girl dropped toward him again. She did not answer. She was on him like a great silvery bat, metal feet kicking, shining fists flying. The lights went out. He lost touch with space and time. Pertin was not wholly unconscious, but he was so close to it, so filled with pain and confusion, that he could hardiy remember what happened next. He had a fugitive impression of great shapes whirling around him, then of being carried away while someone behind him sobbed his name, the voice diminishing slowly in the distance. Much later he opened his eyes. He w#s alone in a part of the ship he knew only sketchily. A large open cocoon hung from a wall and inside it was what looked like one of the Purchased People. Pertin's face was swollen and his eyes were not focusing well at all -- he squinted, but could not make out the features on the person in the cocoon. It appeared to be male, however, and it appeared to be in the last stages of dissolution. It moved and looked toward him. A caricature of a smile disturbed the weeks-old beard and the dry tongue licked the lips. A cracked voice muttered something, the tone hoarse and indistinguishable. "Who are you? What do you want?" demanded Ben James Pertin. The figure rasped a sort of hacking cough, that perhaps was meant for a chuckle. It tried again and this time its words came clear enough -- clear and familiar in a way Pertin had not expected. "I want to talk to you, Ben," it croaked. "We have a lot in common, you know." Pertin frowned, then his swollen eyes widened. He pushed himself toward the swathed figure, caught himself at the lip of the cocoon and stared down. The eyes that looked up at him were pain-filled but familiar. He was looking into his own, battered, obviously dying face. IF months ago. He had gone to the tachyon transmitter and light-heartedly enough given his blueprint to the scanners and allowed one self of him to be beamed to the Aurora. It had not seemed like an important thing to do. At that time it had not been clear to him that the Aurora was a doomed ship. At that time he had had no one to consult but himself -- Zara Doy had still been only a casual acquaintance, a new girl from Earth with a pretty face. "Ben Frank," he whispered. "Right as rain," croaked the ghastly voice. "And I know about you. You're Ben James Pertin and you've been aboard two weeks now. Not very thoughtful of you, failing to visit a dying relative." "But I thought you were already dead! They said -- I mean, I wouldn't have had to come, if -- " "Blaming me, Ben James? Well, why shouldn't you? How long have I lain here blaming you -- and me -- and all the Ben Pertins there ever were." A spasm of coughing racked him, but he talked right through it. "I wanted them to think I was dead. Only fair, isn't it? They were their Project Lambda." "You?" "With a lot of help. My Sirian friends were the first and best, but there have been plenty since. It was the Sirians who told me you were aboard -- you gave one of them quite a start when he saw you in the instrument room. Wrecked his mission, you did." Coughing drowned out the voice. Ben Frank convulsively clutched at the cocoon monitor controls. A warning panel lit over the bed. He was very near death, but the cocoon was not yet defeated -- it metered colored fluids into the external blood supply that was trying to replace the destroyed blood cells. "I only have a few minutes," Ben Frank Pertin gasped. "I don't mind. But I'm not finished, Ben James. You have to finish for me. Destroy that probe. I don't want it to succeed. I don't want Sun One to get its orbiting body around Object Lambda." "But then we -- we'll all have died in vain!" "Of course it's in vain. What's the sense of all this? A chunk of useless matter -- thousands of lightyears from anywhere -- going nowhere. Project Lambda! Do you know how many lives it has cost? I want you to wreck it for me, Ben James, so those fools on Sun One will know better than to try this same stunt another time -- " "But it's not a stunt," objected Ben James Pertin. "It's important. That object is something special, solid but like a cloud -- " "Cloud-Cuckoo Land! It's not worth a single life. Anyway, it's done already, Ben James. My friends are wrecking the probe right now. I only called you here because -- " He paused, coughing terribly. The face that was so much like Ben James's own was aged with the weary agony of radiation death. "Because," he gasped, "I want some part of me to stay alive. If you keep the tachyon receiver you can live, Ben James. Weeks -- maybe months! But once it goes there will be no more food, no more air, no more fuel. I want -- " But what he wanted to say at the last Ben James Pertin would never know. His duplicate suddenly gasped for breath, made a stran. gling sound and was still. After a moment Ben James pulled the privacy screen over the face that was his own and turned to leave. Halfway to the launch chamber he ran into the Sheliaks. beings, one of them the Purchased People woman, the other Doc Chimp. The Sheliaks looked strange and in a moment Pertin realized why. They were smaller than they had been. Essentially they were children now, some of their mass lost when they budded. But their behavior was childish only in jts reckless disregard for consequences. As far as their quarry was concerned, it was lethal. Pertin did not pause to speculate on issues. Doc Chimp was in danger and Ben dove to the rescue. He collided with one of the Sheliaks. It was like tackling a six-foot lump of chilled, damp dough. No bones, no cushioning fat, just a great dense mass of muscular fiber. The Sheliak automatically cupped around him and, linked, they went flying into the wall. The corridor spun around him, a nightmare of blue-green light and red-black shadow and corpse-colored beings. "Stop!" roared Pertin. "Waitlisten to me -- " But no one wanted to talk. They were all on him, thrusting, striking, crushing, using whatever offensive capacities their mobile anatomies gave them. He fought back, using skills he had never known he had. His hands were black and slippery with blood, no doubt much of it his own. Bravely the woman and Doc Chimp had turned back to fight, but it was three of them against more than a dozen Sheliaks and the issue was not in doubt. What saved them was Angel, the silver pseudo-girl. Her carven face remote as a statue's, she drove toward them with great sweeps of her wings. Coronas of electrostatic fire haloed her fingers and wingtips -- something gun-shaped and deadly was in her hands. The Sheliaks, all at once and in unison, turned to meet her. The gun-shaped thing hissed and a white jet crackled toward them. It passed near enough to Pertin for him to IF feel a breath of icy death, but it did not strike him. It grazed the Sheliak who held him and at once the being stiffened and began to drift. Behind them, where the jet had struck, the wall became hidden under a broad patch of glittering frost. A cloud of white vapor billowed around it. In the haze Pertin caught sight of Doc Chimp and the Purchased People woman, momentarily forgotten as the Sheliaks turned against the stronger foe. The woman was badly hurt. Doc Chimp was helping her, his hairy face turned fearfully toward the Sheliaks. Pertin joined them and the three of them moved inconspicuously away. When they were two corridors away and the sounds of battle had diminished they paused and inspected their injuries. Pertin himself had only added a few bruises to a total that was already too large to worry about. The chimp was even more battered, but still operational. The woman was worse off. She was bleeding profusely from a gash on the upper arm. Her face was grotesquely puffed, both eyes were blackened and one leg was bent at an angle anatomically impossible to a whole bone. But she did not appear to feel pain. When Pertin spoke to her, she answered in English, "They don't consider it important. It will not prevent moving about and performing necessary functions." Doc Chimp was groaning and sobbing in pain. "Those Sheliaks!" he cried, feebly trying to groom his matted fur. "They're wholly out of control, Ben James. They tried again to wreck the probe -- may have done it by now if they've got enough power of concentration to remember what they were doing when we diverted their attention. And if Angel hasn't killed them all." Pertin said with a confidence he didn't feel, "She'll stop them. As long as we've got her on our side -- " v "On our side?" cried Doc Chimp. "Ben James, you don't know what you're saying. She's worse than they are!" "But she tried to rescue you." The Purchased woman said calmly, "That is wrong. She merely wanted to kill the Sheliaks." "That's right, Ben James. She's against all organic beings now. She's not ionizable, you see. Radiation doesn't bother her. The only thing that can kill her is deprivation of energy sources and that means the tachyon receiver. Once it's gone she will die as soon as the fuel runs out." Pertin said slowly, "Is it the same with the Scorpian robot?" The battered face nodded, the stub of the green plume jerking wildly. Pertin said, "that means we have to assume all nonorganic beings will feel the same and try Td prevent the launch. What about the other organics?" The Purchased woman recited emotionlessly: "The T'Worlie, all dead. Boaty Bits, more than half destroyed -- the remainder too few to make a collective entity intelligent enough to matter. Sirians and Core Stars races not observed in recent hours and must be presumed dead or neutralized. Sheliaks, destructive and purposeless." Pertin absorbed the information without shock, without reaction of any kind other than a strange impulse to laugh. "But -- but whom does that leave to see that the launch occurs?" "Nobody!" cried Doc Chimp. "Nobody at all, Ben James -- except us!" chamber ahead of the Shetiaks after all. No one else was there. The capsule, tiny bright tachyon crystal at its heart, lay silent and unmoving, connected to the main bulk of the ship by only a canopy designed to be jettisoned. Destruction had raged all around it, but it was still intact. Less than an hour remained until launch. "We'll build barricades," said Pertin. "Anything. Those wrecked instrument boards -- the spare plates and braces. Whatever we can move we'll pile against the entrance. All we have to do is delay them -- " But they had barely begun when brightness glinted in the approach corridor and the silvery pseudo-girl came toward them, followed by the tumbling form of the Scorpian robot. They-brought up short at the entrance, the robot with one slim tentacle coiled caressingly around the silver girl. Pertin put his weight behind the channel iron he had been about to emplace at the door and launched it toward the pair. The pseudo-girl made a sound that was partly laughter and partly the singing of a single piercing note and ihe Scorpian uncoiled a long silver sting. The sting reached out and touched Pertin. A blinding light stabbed from it, jolting him with a strong electric shock. The girl glided in, spreading her tattered wings. The stirred air bathed him in her strong scent, ether-sweet, with undertones like the pits of peaches. Pertin searched the bright silvery face and found no expression. It was no more human than a doll's. The Scorpian's silver tentacles thrust away the pitiful obstructions, making a sound like an enormous gong which Pettin's Pmal refused to translate. The Purchased woman intervened, hurling herself toward the robot, and was brushed heedlessly aside. She struck against the side of the probe ship, a blow that must have been agony to her human IF nervous system, but she did not cry out. Awkwardly she tried to project herself again into the fight. Pertin forced himself to join her. indicated that others were coming, and behind the great winged hulk of the pseudo-girl Pertin could see black shadow-shapes moving across the dimly lighted shaft, growing rapidly as they approached. "Oh, no!" moaned Doc Chimp. "Sheliaks and a Sirian!" The robot was not deflected from its single-minded purpose. It floated toward Pertin, green dome pulsing. An elongating tentacle struck out at Pertin like an endless silver snake, not to sting this time but to snare. It wrapped him in slick, chill coils. He fought free, was caught again -- and at last the Scorpian turned to confront the other beings. It arched its stinging jet, but held it poised, waiting. The Sirian was first into the launch chamber, a tapered, bluescaled torpedo shape fifteen feet long, all pliant wing and shining eye. With a ripple of trailing wing edges it flashed at the Scorpian. The sting coiled, jetting white light into the wide blue eye. The Sirian was not defenseless -- its own forces gathered the robot's charge and repelled it, sending the jet back at the robot, reinforced and multiplied. The pseudo-girl turned with great strokes of her wings, her three-fingered hand coming up with the gunshaped weapon that had killed Sheliaks. Desperately Pertin twisted to intercept her. Her wings were sadly battered now, but still gave her superior mobility; he missed her on the first try and crashed against a wall. Half blinded by his own blood, he doubled his legs under him and launched himself at her again. The gun-shaped thing swung to meet him and the white jet hissed at him. He heard a brittle crackling sound in the air and felt the breath of icy death. But the jet had missed and he was on her. With one hand he swung at her wrist. It was like striking a crowbar with his bare hand, but it jarred the weapon loose; and just then the battle between Scorpian and Sirian reached its climax. The Sirian's jet struck a vital place in the great green dome of the robot. It exploded. The mellow booming sound the robot made became a hollow jangle. The tentacles writhed and recoiled. It sprawled in the air, a grotesque huddle of tordrops of an acid that sizzled and burned where they struck. If the robot had known life, that life was gone -- it was dead. The silvery girl abandoned the fight with Pertin. With a great stroke of her wings she propelled herself to it, hovered over it, wailing an unearthly sound. And the great blue eye of the Sirian turned toward Pertin. Behind it the Sheliaks, late on the scene but ready for battle, were elongating their wrinkled necks toward him. "Wait! They -- they were misleading you. They were trying to prevent the launch, to save their own lives -- " The eye hesitated. "We're ded already," he croaked. "Nothing can help us now, not any organic creature. The radiation will kill us before long, even the Sheliaks. But the robot and the girl -- " He could hear his voice hissing or singing out of the aliens' Pmals. "The robot," he repeated, "and the altered copy that looks like a terrestrial female -- they weren't radiation-vulnerable. They could go on indefinitely. But the rest of us -- if we let them succeed in stopping the launch, then we all die for nothing!" The eye paused, irresolute. Then the foremost of the Sheliaks cried: "Fool! We, too, are not radiation-vulnerable! We simply ned to conjugate and be born again. But we must have the tachyon receiver -- and if you try to keep us from it you must die!" The three tapered tear-drop shapes, like a school of sharks in formation, plunged toward Pertin. The Sirian eye irresolutely turned toward them -- then, with decision, the being whirled to confront them. Contemptuously the Sheliaks changed course to meet it. The leading One widened a ruff of flesh to act like an instant air-brake. It stopped in the air, flowed with a dazzle of color, narrowed a neck toward the Sirian eye. The thin neck spat a stream of a yellow fluid. It struck the Sirian eye and clung, acid, adhesive, agonizing. The Sirian made an unearthly wailing noise at the sudden pain of the attack against which it had no built-in defenses. The great blue eye turned milky white; the huge body knotted in agony. But it still had strength to fire a jet of energy that caught all three Sheliaks. They died instantly, but the effort was the last for the Sirian. All its stored energy had gone into that pulse. The reflected cascade of burning energy came bouncing back, bathing the silvery girl and sending her reeling soundlessly into a wall, to flop into an ungainly, contorted mass that didn't move. Pertin was farther away and partly shielded by what was left of the robot -- even so the bolt lanced his skin with pain. But he was alive. Slowly and painfully he caught a hold-fast on the wall, steadied himself while he looked around. The Purchased People woman was dead, either bled empty or caught in that last furious bolt. The Sirian eye floated broken and aimless. The robot was destroyed. IF The pseudo-girl was drifting impotently away. The Sheliaks were cinders. The chamber was filled with the stench of many different kinds of death, but Pertin was still alive. Suddenly remembering, he cried, "Doc Chimp!" The ape was out of sight. Furiously Pertin ransacked the chamber and found him at the last, wedged between the wall of the probe and the ship's canopy, not quite dead but unconscious. Pertin looked down at him sadly and affectionately. It was nearly time to launch the probe and the question in Pertin's mind was: was it better to wake him up or to let him sleep as the probe was launched, the canopy jettisoned and all the air in the chamber puffed instantly and murderously away into space? The answer was taken out of his hands as the ape stirred, moaned softly and opened his eyes. He looked up at Ben James Pertin and said thickly, "The probe?" "It's all right," said Pertin. "We'll have to launch it by hand." "When, Ben James?" Pertin checked the time. "Just a few minutes now," he said. The ape grinned painfully. "That's good to know, Ben James," he said. "No more problems. No more aches and pains. I always thought I'd be afraid of dying, but, you know? To tell you the truth, I'm kind of looking forward to it." T HE process that animated the body of the silvery pseudo-girl was more like electrophoresis than chemistry, but it was vulnerable to attack. It was damaged now. But she was not dead. The great wings were broken and useless, but her limbs still moved, the inappropriate angel face still held its bleak, proud expression. She was in great pain. That is to say that all of the sensory nets of her edited body were transmitting messages of malfunction, damage and warning. She did not perceive them as a human perceives a toothache, a sensation so blinding that it can lead to suicide, but they did interfere with the few pleasurebound processes left to her -- reminiscence, forevision, contemplation. In the sense that these interfering messages were pain, she had experienced pain from the moment she floated out of the tachyon receiver on Aurora. All edited members of her race did. There was no way to rearrange their structures into forms viable in atmosphere and low-G thatwas comfortable for them. Time was when Angel had experienced pain only infrequently, and in ways that were soon mended. Time was when she had lain with her sisters in the icy methane slush of her native planet, absorbing energy from the radioactive elements that swam about them, growing, learning from the tutorials of her ortho-father, competing in the endless elimination battles of her race that finally won her the choice of assignments -- and ultimately led her to the Aurora and its imminent doom. Her race was not greatly interested in astronomy. They had known almost nothing of it until the first T'Worlie probe survived the crushing pressures of their atmosphere and brought them into contact. From the surface of their enormous planet, there were no stars to be seen. Even their aircraft never reached an altitude beyond dense yellow-gray clouds. What brought her to Aurora was the trait that her whole upbringing had trained into her: the competitive need to go farther and do more. It was not goal-oriented. It gained nothing from victories except the opportunity for further victories. The only victory now open to Angel was to survive -- and the only way to do it was by preventing the launching of the probe. She calculated she had strength enough left to destroy the two organic creatures in her way -- but only just. And only if she acted now. his hand frozen on the release lever. It was Doc Chimp who acted. He flung himself on the pseudo-girl. "Hurry up, Ben James!" he shouted. "She's too strong for me -- " His voice stopped, punctuated by a screech of pain as the silvery arm thrust him away like a cannon shot. The mutated chimp went flying into the floating wreckage of the Scorpian robot. The soft, frail dome of the skull, so cleverly mutated into the nearshape of man's own, impaled itself on a steel shard and the thoughtful, considering brain was destroyed. Pertin hardly even saw it happen. He was past the point for sorrow. It would be easy to let the pseudo-girl destroy him. At least one life would be saved -- hers. His no longer counted. He could hope for a few days, a week or two at the most, of being able to move and breathe. And what would it be like? Increasing pain. Hopeless fear. Regret. Envy. He pressed the lever just as her fingers touched him. The instant sharp slap of the explosion was the last sound he heard. xjL Pertin pressed the release, explosive shears cut the aft end of the ship free. The canopy flew out and away. The air puffed into emptiness. The probe rocket dropped free and began to align itself with the now near great disk of Object Lambda. The first thing Pertin felt was the sharp pain of the explosion, then the second, longer, more deadly pain as the air pressure dropped to instant zero and his blood and body fluids, the air in his lungs, the gases dissolved in his blood, tried to expand to fill the enormous IF emptiness all around. He caught a glimpse of the silvery girl, arms, legs and broken wings flailing, as she shot past him, careened off the jagged edge of metal where the shears had cut the probe satellite free and ricocheted out into emptiness. If she made a sound he could not hear it. There was no longer a way for him to hear. There was no longer a continuous medium of air to carry it. He had just a glimpse of the huge near surface of Object Lambda-the body he had called "Cuckoo" -- as it hung like a great dull circle in the empty sky, cutting off one spiral limb of his own, eternally lost, galaxy. He did not see the orienting jets of the satellite spurt carefully controlled measures of flame to position it for its final thrust He did not see the great violet flare of the fusion rockets that began to slow it. He could not see any of that, because by then he was dead. Neither he nor anyone else in the probe ship saw the great series of flares as the satellite fought to slow itself. Aurora flew on, without power, containing only the last flickerings of life for a few of its beings, back toward the galaxy. The probe left it as it drew more and more rapidly away. The of miles before the satellite made its first meteoric contact with the outer layers of that anomalously thick atmosphere around Cuckoo. Here was a spectacle worth watching, if there had been eyes left in Aurora to sec. The satellite plunged through a carefully planned chord of the atmosphere. Its ablative surface burned and tore away in a flare like all the fireworks in man's history going off at once. But there was none to see -- not Sirian eye nor Sheliak sensors, not T'Worlie or Earthman or alien of any kind. Where life remained at all it lacked strength for curiosity and it would not remain alive very long. Fifty thousand years later Aurora might pass near some sun of an outstretched spiral arm. But by then it would no longer matter to anyone, except as a historical curiosity from a time about which no one any longer cared. Sun One reported that the probe was in a stable orbit. The beings on Sun One responded with pleasure -- everyone was delighted that the project was a success. Now stable, the probe began to do the work for which it had been designed. The complex H-bomb sequencing units and the small, strong pressure-plate shock absorbers fell away, responding to remote controls from Sun One. They would never be used again. The tachyon receiving unit began to emit a stream of tiny metallic shards, none larger than a few inches in its greatest measure. When some hundreds of them were through, floating like a metallic mist around the drone, a quick small machine came through and began to catch them and link them together. Time passed -- hours and then days. A boxlike shape took form and became a larger tachyon receiver -- now ready for action. From tens of thousands of lightyears away an angular, crystalline machine flashed along the tachyon patterns and emerged in the new receiver. It was not alive. It was not even a robot or a proxy like the Purchased People. It was simply an automatic machine that sensed certain potentials and charges, doublechecked the strength of the materials and the solidity of the joints, directed the hufnmingbirdsized construction machine to correct a few faults and then reported that Cuckoo Station, the orbiting body around what had been called Object Lambda, was now ready to be built. A few hours later the first girders of what would eventually be a thousand-meter revolving wheel were being joined together. Plates appeared to surround the girders with an airtight sheath. Machines arrived to be stored in them. Atmosphere was pumped through to fill the chambers. The handling machines were busy, taxed beyond their capacities -- more handling machines were sent and soon the orbiting station was whole, supplied ; and being-rated. The first living beings appeared. ; A Sheliak, naked to the cold of inI tergalactic space (but for the brief l time of its transition to the orbiting : wheel unharmed by it.) A dozen ; PWorlies arrived in a single elastic air-bubble and scurried into the protection of the orbital wheel. There were Sirians, reptilian Aldebaranians, a hive of Boaty Bits, and at the last a couple of humans. One of them was named Ben Linc' Pertin. He floated out of the tachyon receiver in his pressure suit, his thruster unit at the ready in his hands. He did not use it at once. He paused a moment to look around. The first thing he did was to stare down at the enormous flat surface of Cuckoo, so near, so huge, so incredible as it hung like an endless shield in the sky. The second was to look back to where the galaxy lay, sparkling like the sea of stars it was. He could not see the doomship, but he knew it must be somewhere in his line of sight. There were no signals from it any more. There was no way of detecting it and would not be for tens of thousands of years. He stared for a moment, then shrugged. "Poor bastards," he whispered and turned and drove toward the wheel awaiting him.  IF galaxy Special Introductory Offer good in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada H. G. Wells, science fiction -- often termed "future fiction" -- has fascinated alert minds. Not only has it entertained. It has predicted much of the far-ranging scientific and social change now upon us. authors of the genre continue to speculate. to predict, to tackle the prime problems already shaping tomorrow. Ecology -- space exploration -- nuclear promise and threat -- energy -- social evolution and biological revolution -- these and other fields are probed by imaginative stories uniquely exciting and rewarding. So let your fancy run free. Subscribe now I For U.S. and Canada, For United Kingdom , send coupon to: send coupon to: New York. N.Y. # London SW# #RD G # issues of IF for #  # issues of IF for # of IF for # of IF for # FnninsnH find in payment for my subscriotion as checked above Some Contributors Past and Present Pout "Anderson smc Asimov Alfred Bester J ernes BUsh Robert Bloch Ray Bradbury Arthur C. Clarke L. Sprague de Camp Lester del Rey Robert A. Heintein Donald H. Manzel J. R. Pierce Frederik Pohl Robert S. Richardson Robert Siverberg Theodore Sturgeon A.E. Van Vogt Kurt Vonnegut Jr. AH the humans w o r e old heads I A I T 'HE accident that threatened to determine Woman Alice Lander's life expectancy was due to a combination of circumstances. Afterward she might blame the heat or her own exhaustion, but principally she would blame her Friend. Her Friend, she had already decided, was neurotic and objectionable and the long car journey had been a mistake. But Woman Lander considered herself a kindhearted soul and, as she was by trade a placement officer, she felt it her duty to take on this responsibility. The Friend knew Alice's occupation -- she had wheedled out this information within ten minutes of their meeting. A placement officer? she had grated in her metallic voice. That's interesting, my dear... And Alice had known what would happen. She had contracted to look after the Friend for a period of one week. During this week, she guessed, the Friend would make persistent, unnerving attempts . to get placed. She would play on Alice's sympathies. She would cajole and toward the end of the week she would threaten -- feebly and blusteringly. The road was dusty and the surface uneven -- puddle-like mirages came and went in the heat of the sun. Alice concentrated on her driving. She was thirty-nine years and six months old and her reactions were not what they had been. She looked forward to reaching the main road to Axminster and switching over to automatic. Not for the first time she regretted the public-spirited whim that had takrti her to the Westbury Transfer Center. Beside her the Friend whined, "Do you think there's a chance of my being placed at Axminster?" Alice forced herself to think calmly. The Friend had undergone her traumatic experience only yesterday, her fortieth birthday, when she had been taken to the transfer center and divested of her body. Her brain, wired up in what the medical profession facetiously called a "holding pattern" and surrounded with nutrient fluid, reposed in a black box on the seat of the hovercar. So the Friend, named Betty Benson, was naturally not feeling happy, although she was considerably luckier than the thousands of other Friendship Boxes at that moment reposing in Westbury and Axminster centers -- at least she had been contracted for. Alice tried to make allowances. Alice had had six bodies in her lifetime and had never been obliged to undergo the transitional period of Friendship due to the fact that placement officers were in the preferred trade  category. Every time she had reached the physical age of forty she . had been transferred immediately into the body of a six# . IF month-old child and had resumed life with hardly a break, although naturally somewhat incapacitated at first. Alice had never found the enforced idleness of her early childhoods a hardship -- she had looked on each as a pleasant extended vacation with no responsibilities preparatory to recommencing working life. She was, in fact, looking forward to her next transfer. But Betty Benson, whining with misery beside her, was one of the unlucky ones. It might be several years before she was placed and transferred into a host. Alice was responsible for dealing with the Axminster waiting list -- a formidable four hundred-odd thousand names reposed in the filing  The Act of # guaranteed virtually everyone then alive immortality. It specified that on hisher fiftieth birthday every person of Earth had to attend a Transfer Center, where hisher brain was removed and placed into the cranium of a six-month-old child. The person then went through another childhood to maturity and the process was repeated at his or her fiftieth birthday -- ad infinitum. So successful was the Act at curbing the human birthrate that by # it became pecessary to introduce what were euphemistically called Friendship boxes -- metal containers filled with nutrient fluid in which a brain was placed pending availability of a host body. In order to make the wait more pleasant the boxes were equipped with audio pickups and vocal chords. By the year # it was decided to decrease the active population (while birthrate had declined, the number of people had not) by reducing the age for Compulsory Transfer to #. Simultaneously came about the Preferred Trade concept, which made it uncabinets of her office. So she thought hard before answering the Friend's question -- she was not allowed to divulge precise information. "The Axminster list is pretty long," she admittedThen, in order to lessen the blow, she said, "But there's always a chance of your getting a makeover." A small chance. Makeovers seldom happened. "A makeover?" queried Friend Betty Benson eagerly. "You know -- you get friendly with someone in a preferred trade and when the time comes for her to take her transfer she might not want it. She may have had an unhappy last life or may just be tired and won't want to go through it all again. And sometimes you can find necessary for "essential personnel," such as government officials and civil servants, to spend any time in a Friendship box -- at age # they were transferred into a host body. By # old heads were firmly in the saddle and the world was solidly in the grip of the System. Almost no one remembered what a young person was. Androids were developed to serve as host bodies. Handsome, healthy and intelligent, grown from the best genetic material available, they were nevertheless discriminated against because of certain skin discolorations and most people continued to prefer waiting periods in Friendship boxes. The human birthrate, however, continued to drop -- and Friends in boxes wielded votes. The Total Death Act -- which prescribed termination of all persons convicted of any offense from overtime parking up -- was passed in # to shorten Friendship box waiting period for others. The events in this story took place in the year #. a Friend due to be placed, who decides she likes it better in the box and doesn't want a body. It sometimes happens, believe it or not. If so -- if someone really doesn't want her transfer -- she can assign it to whomever she likes; You, for instance." She didn't add that in order to achieve this the Friend had to make himself pretty damned pleasant. "Oh, my God. What chance would I stand of that?" The box, bouncing slightly on the seat, seemed almost to shrivel with despair. "Do I take it this is your first time as a Friend?" asked Alice. The box hesitated. "Yes," she admitted at last. It figured. Woman Betty Benson had been preferred in the past and had lost her status through some minor misdemeanor not sufficiently serious to be punishable by total death. She had come down in the world. She was bitter and prejudiced. And Alice had contracted to look after her for a week. The prospect was not inviting. She felt a fury knot her stomacn. She should have checked the recordsat the Center before being carried away by sympathy for the stack of black boxes she had seen muttering to each other,, bickering and bemoaning their inactivity. "Look here," she said, threading the car carefully through a village. "You and I have got to get along together for a week. Just a week, that's all -- and I promise that at the end of that time I'll try to find another woman to take you over. I won't send you back to the center unless there's no alternative." "Thanks." There was a hint of sarcasm in the reply. "Ah, might I ask how old you are, my dear?" The harsh voice had changed again. Its tone had become unctuous. It was astonishing, thought Alice, how the speaker transmitted each change in inflection. "I'm thirty-nine," she replied firmly, "and I have no intention of granting you a makeover. I'm not tired opictive life." "My dear, I wouldn't dream -- Look, I'm sorry. You must realize that all this is new to me. It's having no eyes that hurts the most. For the next week, will you be my eyes, Alice? Tell me what you see. Let me know what's happening." A sound psychological approach, thought Alice. The Friend would make Alice indispensable. And at the end of the week the Friend, in electronic tears, would beg Alice to keep her on -- she couldn't do without her. And so on, week after week, chasing the faint chance that Alice might, in six month's time, grant her a makeover and opt for the Friendship Box... Not a chance in the world. Playing along, she said, "We're doing fifty-three miles an hour and reaching the main road, thank God. We're passing through a villageIF I'm pulling in." "What brand of fuel does it sell?" asked the Friend eagerly. "Orinoco," lied Alice for a small, nasty satisfaction. She wound down the window and addressed the approaching child: "Six gallons, please." The youngster, a brown-eyed and handsome lad of about five years, wrestled with the heavy hose. He swore comprehensively as he tried to twist the hose toward the hovercar's fuel tank, only to have it writhe out of the chubby, scarred hands that betrayed him as an android. "I'm sorry," he apologized hastily. He tried again and this time successfully jammed the nozzle home. "Give me another year's growth and I'll sort this bastard out," he promised. Alice Lander looked at him reprovingly. "You're too small to work," she said. "You'll overtax yourself. You'll regret it later on." He stared at her furiously -- then his expression changed. "Hey," he exclaimed. "Aren't you Woman Lander? Of the Axminster placement office?" "That's right," skid Alice, surprised. She looked at him closely, but didn't recognize him. She had to admit that androids tended to look alike unless you knew them personally. He was smiling pleasantly now. "Surely you remember me? Christ, no -- of course you wouldn't. I was in my previous body." He made a gesture of snapping his Angers, but the soft young flesh remained silent. "But I remember you -- God, yes. You placed me five years agb." Five years ago? Alice thought hard, feeling slightly embarrassed. She took a shot in the dark. "Joel Wittig?" she tried hopefully. "Surely it can't be Joel Wittig?" The child grinned, delighted. "The same," he said. "You remembered. Five years ago you placed me within the day -- and me a garage hand. I'll always be grateful for that. I only hope I'm as lucky the next time -- " His voice trailed off as he caught sight of the box on the seat beside Alice. "It's a long time yet," he said eventually. "See you again. Look after yourself, Woman Lander." Alice drove off in a glow of selfesteem that was immediately dispelled by the Friend. "How come you placed him right away?" she asked with an abrupt return to her waspish manner. "How did he get to jump the queue?" Alice sighed. "He's an android." The Friend wouldn't have known, not being able to see. The box was a great leveler. "So what? Are they better than us or something?" "No, of course not," Alice replied, her steering unsteady as she veered, fast, on to themain Axminster road. "But their birth rate is rising while ours is falling. An android can usually transfer immediately on his fortieth birthday. Humans have to wait. It's as simple as that. Android babies are available to humans, you know." "I'd rather wait a thousand years than have an android body," exclaimed the Friend. "The very idea is disgusting!" "It's a better body than you may ever get otherwise," retorted Alice sharply. She felt strongly on the subject as a result of a certain blissful vacation many years ago. "Androids tend to be stronger than we are arid they have shown greater capacity for learning." "Nonsense," said the Friend forcefully. "That's just propaganda -- put out so they won't feel inferior with those awful fingers and those strawberry marks all over them." "A lot of them are unmarked." Alice decided it was time to change the subjects" We' re passing through a village now," she remarked. Children played at the roadside -- or were they children? These days you couldn't tell. She remembered her own childhood, her original childhood, and experienced a sense of loss. Then she told herself the reaction was ridiculous. There is one period of innocence in a person's life and one only. Compulsory transfer hadn't altered that. It had just made one's age of innocence seem such a long time ago. In a sentimental daze she scanned the small figures on the pavement. That was the reason she was too late in her instinctive stabbing at the brake when a child -- a real child -- dashed into the road almost under the skirts of the hovercar. Normally this would not have mattered -- the automatic control would have been activated by the child's crossing the safety beam. But in her enormous irritation at the Friend, Alice had forgotten to engage the automatic brake while swinging to the main road. Veering wildly from side to side the car raced on while Alice struggled to regain control. A small body flew at a tangent toward the houses, to lie still with its neck bent back at a terrifying angle. child whom Alice Lander struck. She knew this instantly -- a human child would have been mentally adult and would not have scuttled across the road in front of a speeding hovercar. But what caused her to whimper softly to herself as she switched hastily to automatic and accelerated rapidly was the fact that she was thirty-nine years and six months old and had committed a criminal offence in driving on a main road without engaging the automatic -- and as a result had injured a child. The fact that the child was an android made no difference -- Woman Lander had not one atom of prejudice in her makeup. She IF had outlived that sort of thing many lives ago. And a little over a hundred years ago she had gained a deep insight into the android personality as a result of a passionate love affair. So the reason she didn't stop was not the breed of her victim, but simply her own age. Thirty-nine years and six months. The countdown period, they called it -- the period when a person became ultra-cautious. A crime committed just before transfer meant, quite simply, the death sentence. Alice Lander suddenly had less than a year to live. The statutory refusal of future transfer, known ominously as total death, would be mandatory in her case. Her knuckles were white around the useless wheel and tears eased their hesitant way down her cheeks. "What was that noise?" asked the Friend. "I heard a thud just then." Alice didn't reply. Silently she struggled to adjust her emotions. She was Woman Alice Lander, an impeccable citizen, due for transfer in six month's time -- unless she opted for a premature, which was sometimes done in preferred trades when the body was failing. "I heard it clearly," grated the Friend. "You didn't hit anyone, did you?" Alice wondered if someone had gotten her number. The eyes of children are sharp. "Wouldn't do to have an accident at your age,"the box remarked. "Don't you think you ought to stop?" "Why?" asked Alice, at last under control. "Well, I mean, someone might be hurt. You had the car on automatic, of course?" "Of course. It was probably a bird, the road sensors only pick up at ground level." "Damned big bird. I didn't know the albatross was a visitor to these parts. Why are you driving so fast?" "I don't want to be late." "Late? What for? I thought we were just going to your place." "I thought we might -- take in a show or something." "You what?" The Friend's voice became suddenly smooth -- Alice imagined it was menacing. "Look, are you in some kind of trouble? I may be blind, but I can hear. Just then, after that bump, I could have sworn I heard you whimper." "Whimper?" Alice's voice uncontrollably rose a semitone. "You whimpered--like a carrier dog. It could be a nervous habit. I knew a man once who had one -- they tend to get hold of you and you can't get rid of them when you've been subject to them for over a hundred years. This man, whenever he laughed, used to snort right at the end of the laugh." Here the Friend obliged with an imitation. "Ha, ha, snort. Like a pig. He used to apologize afterward." "I'm sorry," said Alice desperately. "It's quite all right," the Friend assured her. "I didn't mind, but it had me worried for a moment. I wouldn't like to think you'd hit anybody. Not with a clean sheet and only six months to go. It would be tragic, as if we haven't got enough problems already, what with me and your long waiting list -- " At that moment it occurred to Alice that she was going to be blackmailed. II and the black main road was silvery. with heat. Alice was hungry, thirsty and in need of a washroom. She couldn't stop, however, because sooner or later the police, no doubt notified already, would be hard on her heels looking for a red hovercar, # International Motors license number B-#P. Traffic violations had become so rare during her several lives that she was no longer sure whether authorities still used road blocks and she held her breath at each blind curve, expecting to find her way barricaded. Her mouth was dry and foultasting. Another spasm clutched her lower abdomen and she tensed in the seat, glancing at the Friend by her side and for a moment almost envying the box its freedom from urgent natural functions. A signpost flashed by at an intersection -- twenty miles to Axminster. Increasing speed, she wondered if she could hold out that long. "I expect you could do with a cup of coffee," remarked the Friend. "Don't hurry on my account. Pull in and relax, why don't you? Traveling at this time of day and in the sun is tiring. Makes the eyes ache, I used to find -- then your vision starts playing tricks. Thank God for the automatic control, I used to say." pumps like sentinels at the roadside observing Alice's headlong progress. Above the high whine of the turbine she kept imagining she could hear the shriller, banshee wail of police pursuit. Axminster seven miles. "What was that?" queried the Friend suddenly, so that Alice, lost in misery, jumped. "I thought I heard something like a siren." "Nonsense," said Alice sharply, listening. "It's the engine. The oil level may be a bit low. It often makes a noise like that -- there's a leak somewhere." "Maybe you ought to slow down a bit." "We'll be all right. We're nearly there now." Axminster two miles. The concrete suburbs flashed by. The sound of the car's progress reIF bounded as a rhythmic pulsing from the lampposts. Alice throttled back, carefully observing the speed limit. She turned left at an intersection, right into a parkjng space, killed the engine and stepped out into the sudden heat of the city. She hurried around the car, seized the Friend and slammed the door. She glanced around frantically, got her bearings and plunged into a nearby john. Emerging gratefully, the Friend in her hand, she paused, stared, changed direction and walked with studied casualness into a supermarket. Behind her several uniformed men were examining the hovercar with professional interest. "Are we on our way to your place?" asked the Friend loudly and shoppers turned their heads. 'Tm just going to pick up a few things." "Don't bother on my account," said the Friend. "I don't eat, you Jcnow." Alice piled a random selection of groceries into a cart and wheeled it to the cash desk. Behind her rose a scream of protest as a shoplifter was apprehended. Alice placed her provisions on a turntable and the cashier rapidly totaled them up. He was tall and fair-haired. He smiled at Alice pleasantly. "Cash or charge?" "Charge," she said without thinking, handing over her code card. "Name?" The name was on the card, but the question was required by law. There was a commotion beside them as the shoplifter, a woman in "her late thirties, was dragged away ,by a uniformed store attendant. Her arms were pinned behind her back and the attendant was holding up Exhibit A, a small packet of soap powder. A jumble of desperate words tumbled from the woman's trembling lips. "For God's sake -- I was only looking at it -- I just picked it up to see if it had a lucky number, that's all, I swear. You can't do this to me -- I'm thirty-nine years old -- I'm thirty-nine years old!" "The name's Woman Alice Lander." Alice spun around. For a dreamlike moment she thought the name referred to the doomed woman. Then she realized that the Friend had replied to the cashier's question. Trying to control herself, she smiled at him nervously as he ran his forefinger down a list. Surely , she thought, they can't have caught up with me yet... It would take a while to trace her as the car's owner, assuming that they had already identified the vehicle with the accident. The police might merely have been carrying out one of their periodic roadworthiness spot : checks, she thought hopefully. She glanced through the supermarket window. The car was gone. The police had towed it away for further examination. The cashier smiled again, setting down the list. "Right," he said. He inserted the card into a slot, then returned it. "Shall we deliver for you?" "Thank you." She smiled back, weak with relief. "I thought you wanted the stuff now," said the Friend. "Deliver it, please," she said firmly as the cashier raised his eyebrows. He nodded and she moved away, contriving to strike the box heavily against the counter. The Friend squealed protest. She left through the rear doors of the supermarket, stepping into the abrupt sunshine and the quiet of a tree-shaded public park. Neat paths led past long bench seats on which people relaxed, faces turned to the gun. Some fed birds. The scene was still for a moment, taking it in, appreciating it deeply. She sat on a nearby bench. "Are we there?" asked the Friend. In the peaceful atmosphere of the park Alice began to collect her thoughts and get the recent runaway events into perspective. What, exactly, was her position? She had injured a child in a road accident and the police, by now, would have identified her car as being the one responsible. Before long thiy would have traced the car to her and her name would appear on the indicator boards as a wanted person. For just a moment she considered leaving the town and going into hiding in one of the remoter regions. Around the fringes of Dartmoor were abandoned cottages which, due to the difficulty of farming the rugged terrain, had never been ploughed under. It frequently happened that a criminal in his late thirties would disappear in that direction -- after all, he had nothing to lose. For a while she entertained the almost romantic notion of the simple existence -- a small cottage, a diet of roots and berries -- maybe she could catch and tame a wild goat... Then common sense took over. She would never get out of town. The Friend would make sure of that. If she abandoned the box, it would raise the alarm within minutes. If she took it, it would soon suspect that the journey was becoming long and would again raise the alarm. She had, however, one chance. "Are we there?" asked the Friend again. "Is this your place? I can hear birds. The sound's not right. There are no echoes. Where are we?" In a moment's sudden fury at the persistence of the Friend she contemplated dropping it over the bridge into the river or otherwise disposing of it permanently. But this again was impractical. She would be seen -- the box would be rescued immediately. IF Her only answer was a premature transfer. If she could reach a transfer center and persuade the doctors that she had good reason for her request, backed up by her authority as a placement officer. She might, with luck, obtain a quick transfer before her name appeared on the indicator boards. Then she would be in possession of a new young body and nobody could take that from her for another forty years. She might get a ten-year sentence for dangerous driving, but at least after that she would have thirty years of freedom before the statutory total death. "Where are we?" the Friend rasped again. "Are you there?" "I'm here. I'm just resting for a moment. I'm tired after the drive. We're in the park at Axminster -- it's very nice. There are a lot of late-thirties about -- dreaming about their next childhood, I expect. None of them can have more than a year to go by the look of them." This was a phenomenom of the countdown period. Many persons shortly due for a transfer seemed to retire from active life altogether rather than run the risk of committing some crime. "There are birds in the park and one or two android children playing." "Thanks for the information. It's good to hear from you again," observed the box sarcastically. "Fine sort of companion you're turning out to be." There was menace in the voice again and Alice caught her breath. The Friend was turning nasty. "I'm sorry," she said gently. "Sorry about a lot of things, I don't doubt," observed the box. "There's something weird about this whole business. Are we going back to the car?" "No. We can walk. It isn't far from here." Across the park an indicator board was flashing -- she could see a string of names but at this distance could not read them. She picked up the box and strolled across casually. It appeared that Johnathan Stone was wanted for assault. There were several others. The name of Alice Lander did not appear. OTyet. i I She wondered when the Friend would make her move. There was no doubt that she was suspicious and the voice issuing from the box held unpleasant, gloating undertones. But the Friend might imagine that, for the time being, she had everything under control. She might reason along the same lines as Alice herself, deciding that there was no way Alice could get rid of her. So she would bide her time and then, perhaps later tonight, would come further suggestions about the waiting list and Alice's responsibility for deciding the local priorities of placing for transfer. Or would the climax come when the Friend discovered -- or reasoned -- that Alice was no longer able to use the car? This would confirm her suspicions and she would have to push matters forward, getting her name at the top of the list before Alice was arrested. Yes, the Friend would have to move quickly if she were to take advantage of the situation. The box suddenly said "I don't want to walk. You're jogging me about too much. I want to take the    #I car. "There's a bus station just here," said Alice quickly. "Take the car." "Look," said Alice. "I don't want to use the car. I've had a long drive and I'd rather relax on the bus. It's only a short run. Why should I take the car?" "Prove to me the car's available," snapped the Box. Alice felt herself flush with temper. "Why should I?" "Because I think the car's been confiscated by now and you're on the run. I'm nobody's fool. You're going to make for the outlying districts and lie low." The Friend's voice was dangerous, triumphant -- she had decided she held a winning hand. "Look here, I'll give you a chance. I could give you away now. I could start yelling and turn you in. But I won't. Just take me along to your office and put me near the top of the list -- not the very top. That would look odd. Just slip me in somewhere about number ten -- it won't take a minute and then we'll catch the outward bus. You can get off at the terminus, leave me under the seat and make for the hills, as I believe the expression is. I'll keep quiet until I'm back in town, which will give you a good start. Fair enough?" So this was it. The confrontation had come a little sooner than Alice had expected. She felt weak suddenly and sat down. Names of criminals slid down the indicator board and disappeared off the bottom like drowning men, only to be drearily resurrected at the top before recommencing their downward plunge. Jennifer Spragg, shoplifting. Alice wondered if that was the woman she had seen in the supermarket -- maybe she had made a break for it. The name would be repeated throughout the region in public places, in the placement offices, the transfer centers, just about everywhere. Nancy Blackett, kidnaping. Inconsequentially she thought that these names sounded like those of criminals -- it would look odd to see the name of Alice Lander there for dangerous driving. But it was not there yet. Her mind made up, she stood, the box in her hand. "We'll go to the placement office," she said. "To my room. It's just a short bus ride from here." The Friend chuckled triumphantly. "Thank you, my dear." IF T HE fare mechanism winked at her, knowingly it seemed, as she stepped on the platform. Disconcerted, she made the same stupid mistake as before, automatically thrusting her card into the slot. The machine chuntered over this, riffling in microseconds through its relayed list of undesirables, then spat the card back at her. At least it was more efficient than the supermarket, she thought. The checking off didn't have to be done manually. But her route through Axminster was being recorded -- she should have paid cash. She stepped off the platform and made for a seat. "Hold it," the mechanism barked. She wheeled, her heart thumping. A last-minute name had been relayed on to the criminal record. The doors were shut -- she was trapped. The eye of the machine, was winking rapidly -- another, yellower eye near the deck blinked in sympathy. The machine was about to denounce her. "What is it?" she mumbled through trembling lips. The machine coughed, clearing itself of static. "You have, excess baggage," It got out eventually. Shaking with relief, Alice apologized. "I'm so sorry. I have a Friend with me. I quite forgot." Again she had to insert her code card -- again live through the instant of terror before it was back in her hand. She stumbled away. "It's full fare for a Friend," the machine barked after her. "Don't forget that again, Woman." "I won't," she promised and sat down heavily, placing the box on the seat beside her. A man sitting behind her leaned forward and touched her shoulder sympathetically -- she saw the scars of the android. "Don't let it bother you," he said. "I've been caught  like that myself. It's disgraceful. When people are good enough to take Friends the least , the authorities should do is let them travel free." He tapped the box gently. "Hello, there," he said. "Hello," replied the Friend guardedly. Alice could guess her feelings. The last thing they wanted was to be drawn into conversation. In their present nervous state it would be only too easy to arouse suspicion. Alice turned around, determined to freeze the conversation with a few icy words -- then hesitated as she met the eyes of the man behind. They were brown and kindly. His expression was tentatively friendly and there was something indefinably familiar about him. "You've taken Friends yourself?" she found herself asking. "Yes. I think it's the least we can do. We're the lucky ones, after all, right now -- and there's always the chance we may become a Friend ourselves one day. You never know how the birthrate will go." Obviously he was preferred and correctly deduced that she was, too. "That's good way of looking at it." She warmed to him. Beside her the box coughed warningly. Without quite knowing how it had happened, she found she had placed the box on the floor and moved over -- the man was sitting beside her. His last transfer had been fortunate. He was tall and exceptionally good-looking, his face unblemished by the marks of the Vat. He was also approximately the same physical age as herself and she experienced regret. It was a pity she couldn't turn this chance encounter to advantage, but in her present position she had no time to form a liaison. "I've got a Friend at the office right now," he said. "A sad case. He's been on the list for eight years and it's getting him down." He had lowered his voice and was talking quietly into her ear out of deference to the feelings of the box beneath the seat. "What are the chances for yours?" he asked, nodding in that direction. "Not good," admitted Alice. "And she's not happy about it, either. If she goes on my list, it'll be ten years before she gets a transfer." "Your list?" The android regarded her with interest. "You're a placement officer?" "Yes. The job can be disheartening at times. I can't help telling myself that the only advantage of my trade is that it's preferred and then I start hating myself, because that's a selfish outlook." "We're all human. Permit me to introduce myself," he said, taking her hand. "I've only been in Axminster a few days. My name's incredulously. "I'm Alice Lander," she said and watched his expression change. Ill hand in hand along the silver sands of Exmouth, together in the recurring joy of emergence into adulthood. Since then she had known two more physical teenages but they had never approached the delight of those few weeks over a hundred years ago when she and the Southern Recreation Center, swimming, sailing, making love or just lying on the beach, warm in the sun and in the wonder of each other's presence. Five weeks of heaven before they were posted separately to their trades -- she to become placement officer at Axminster, he to attend a medical school at the other end of the country. People said that in the thirties the mind would always have made its impression on the physical IF face, but looking at him now she saw him again as the seventeenyear-old of their previous life. The eyes watching her with surprise and delight were the eyes that had regarded her with love all those years ago. In the manner of most such liaisons they had lost touch with each other by the time of her next transfer, but she had often wondered what had become of him and what he looked like now and what it would be like if they ever met again. And now here he was, miraculously beside her in the bus, and they were both thirty-nine years old -- but for her the meeting was too late. "Alice," he said softly. "My God -- Alice, after ail these years. I've often thought about you." she said sincerely. "I've never forgotten that vacation. I've been to Exmouth since, you know -- but it's never been the same." "It was over a hundred years ago," he said slowly. "I wonder how much else I can remember from that time. Not much, I suppose. The mind may age more slowly than the body, but it ages nevertheless and memories disappear. Only the worthwhile ones stay with you always." Still, saying that, he thought of their child -- she had not wanted it. Alice was still gripping his hand and her mind was far back in time, but a sudden harsh voice jerked her back to the realities of the present. "What are you two talking about?" demanded the FriencL querulously. "I can't hear you. Have you put me under the seat? All I can hear is a damned turbine. You haven't left me, have you? Are you there? Are you there?" The voice rose to a shout. "You'd better get her out of there before she calls the police," he said. Alice started nervously at the mention of the law and hastily dragged the Friend, none too gently, from her resting place. his knees. "Hello, Friend," he said. "How are you doing?" "Who the devil are you?" He raised his eyebrows at Alice. "I'm an old acquaintance of your companion," he replied. "We've been talking over old times." "Damned inconsiderate of you, shoving me out of the way. Old times? What have you two been cooking up?" "Cooking up?" "Never mind," muttered the Friend. "Are you there, Alice?" "Yes." "Haven't we arrived yet? How much farther do we go?" Alice sighed, glancing apolothe next stop," she reassured the box. "Look, why don't we stop in somewhere and have a drink?" "No," snapped the Friend, before Alice could reply. "We've got a lot to do. We're short of time." The box chuckled unpleasantly. "I'm sorry about that," said quietly to Alice. "Can you give me your number. I'd like to call you when you'refree." "Free?" cackled the box. "Yes, give the gentleman your number, my dear. By all means." quickly jotted down Alice's address and visiphone number and they got to their feet. On the pavement he handed her the Friend. "I'll go now," he said. "Look, do you mind if I call you tomorrow?" He glanced at the box significantly. "We can talk over old times together. Would you like that?" Alice nodded dumbly and turned, waved and disappeared round the corner. She stood for a While, her eyes smarting, until a grating query from the Friend reminded her that time was running out. S HE stood in the entrance hall to the transfer center and looked around Uncertainly. Over to the right was the reception desk -- ahead stretched a long corridor lined with doors. The hall was large and impersonal like a hospital's outpatient area -- along the walls stood a few chairs but no people were in sight, apart from the girl behind the reception desk. She was engrossed in a novel. Set high in the opposite wall was the inevitable indicator board. Alice noted that authorities were still looking for Nancy Blackett (kidnaping) among various other names. Some of the previous names had disappeared. Their possessors were presumably in custody by now. The Friend spoke quietly, alerted by the sudden cessation of street sounds. "Is this your office?" "Yes'," lied Alice as quietly, wondering what to do next. If she were accosted by anybody the ensuing conversation would give the game away and the Friend, grasping the situation, would denounce her. A pile of blankets on a nearby trolley gave her an idea. "Look herei" she said. "I've got to get up to my room and there are a lot of people about. If they see me carrying you they might suspect something. I'll wrap you up for a moment. Will that be all right?" The Friend considered. "I suppose so," she said finally. "But I've just thought of something. How will I kno.w you've put my name high on the list? I won't be able to see it. I can't say I exactly trust you. What you must do is this. After you've made my entry in the records you must call a colleague into the room on some pretext and discuss the people at the top of the list, mentioning my name. Otherwise I start IF screaming. Right? As soon as you've done that we can leave, catch a bus and you make for the wilds. I won't give you away if you do as I say. Right?" "Right," echoed Alice resignedly. She took a blanket from the trolley and wrapped the Friend up thoroughly, making sure the microphone and speakers were well covered. Then she approached the desk. "I wish to apply for a premature transfer," she said in a low voice. She could not avoid glancing over her shoulder. Linton James, rape, accompanied the name of Nancy Blackett on the indicator board. "Name?" asked the receptionist brusquely. "Woman Alice Lander. Placement officer. Preferred trade, you know." "I know," the girl said sharply and resentfully. She riffled through the cards, glanced at the indicator board. "Alice Lander," she repeated. "Here we are. Physical age thirty-nine. What happened, Woman Lander? Your body not pretty enough for you?" "That's enough of that." Alice snapped, deciding to take the offensive. "I'll have you reported. Now give me the application form and hold your tongue." Reluctantly the girl handed over a form and a pen, glancing pointedly at the indicator board again as though she expected Alice's name to appear at any second. Alice was infuriated and prayed inwardly: Don't let my name come up now, not now. Five minutes' time if you like, but not now.  can't give her that satisfaction... She completed the form rapidly and handed it back. "Come back in a week." "I'll see the doctor now, if you don't mind." Sighing, the receptionist lifted a phone, spoke a few minutes, then replaced the receiver. "Doctor Butler will see you," she informed Alice. "Second on the right. You're very lucky. He's a busy man." Alice's self-control snapped. "Don't tell me I'm lucky, young woman. A word from me would have you out from behind that desk and into the street, jobless. Goodbye -- and I hope you enjdy your next Friendship -- may it be long." The girl grinned insolently. "That's twenty-two years from now. I'll have qualified as preferred by then, with luck. Enjoy your next body. Woman Lander, and may it suffer from acne." Then a curious thing happened. The girl glanced at the indicator board and her jaw dropped. A look of surprise crossed her face. Alice swung around, her heart lurching, but to her relief the names on the board were meaningless to her. The girl was staring at the board incredulously and seemed to have lost interest in the battle of wits. With the Friend bundled under her arm Alice stalked away. She tapped on the door of the doctor's office and entered. The doctor was physically young and he looked up with a pleasant smile on seeing her. "Woman Lander," he said, rising to his feet and taking her hand. "Sit down, sit down. I've heard about you -- you're the local placement officer, aren't you? My patients have spoken of you. I'm very pleased to meet you. What seems to be the trouble?" Encouraged, Alice launched into a rambling monologue about strange pains in the back, headaches, und listlessness and a general feeling of depression. Listening to her dull voice droning on, she felt she was doing well. Her eyes drifted to the miniature indicator board on the doctor's desk and her spirits rose slightly. For the first time she began to feel some certainty that she might be able to pull this off. The doctor was talking to her soothingly. "Well, we can't have a  woman in your position feeling bad, can we? Sickness impairs the efficiency. I see you've only got six months to go in any case. Yes -- I think a premature transfer would be the best thing -- then a nice vacation for a few years and back to the job refreshed. Of course, at such short notice you'll have to take the best host available, but I'm sure you won't mind that under the circumstances," He chuckled. "Usually I like to find a nice little blond girl for my favorite women patients in preferred circumstances." "Thank you, Doctor." She was amazed at how easily it was going. "It can be done right away? I've filled in the application." "I should think so. I don't see why not. You've informed them at your office, I suppose? I can't imagine a woman of your capabilities not leaving your affairs in order." he laughed. "There's just one thing. Doctor." said Alice tentatively, indicating the bundle in her lap. "I have a very dear Friend here. She doesn't know my intentions. I couldn't bear to tell her. I told her I was going to an electromusic concert -- I know she can't stand electromusic but I like to take her everywhere. So I wrapped Jher up." If I can get awayrwith this . I can get away with anything , Alice thought. The doctor was smiling sympathetically. "It's nice to know there are people like you around. Woman Lander. Friends can be an encumbrance at times, I know. Are you trying to say that you'd like me to explain to her -- afterward?" "I'll take her with me into the operating theater," said Alice hastily. "I'd like to have her with IF me right up to the end. Then you can explain -- and perhaps arrange for her to be sent back to the transfer center at Westbury -- that's where I got her from." "That's quite all right." Doctor Butler stood and Alice followed suit, clutching the muffled Friend. "I think it's time we had a word with the transfer surgeon. He might be able to fit you in right away." "I'll leave you here," he said later, as he found her a seat in a small waiting room. "The surgeon will be along in a minute. Good luck, Woman Lander." She sat very still, nervously twisting her hands together. Now that the doctor had gone and her time was so close she began to get apprehensive again. There was no indicator board in the waiting room and she began to imagine that frightening glissade of names again, slowly down the board, disappearing, reappearing at the top and occasionally taking on a new name. Was her name on that board yet? Had it appeared on the doctor's desk? Was he at this moment staring at it, unable to believe that Woman Lander was capable of crime but seeing it nevertheless? The board had to be right, he would think, and he would jump to his feet, open the door and hurry down the corridor to prevent the transfer -- she could hear footsteps. She could hear footsteps coming down the hall. The door opened. A tall, familiar figure entered, stood regarding her gravely. V Alice?" he asked. "Doctor Butler told me he thought you had reasonable grounds for a premature transfer. Is this right? You want one now?" He looked puzzled and a little hurt. "I do," she said, feeling bewildered. "Are you the surgeon? I didn't know you worked here." "There seems to be a lot we don't know about each other, Alice," he replied. "Damn it, we've only just met for the first time in a hundred years and I thought -- I thought you were, well, pleased to see me. I thought we might" see each other some more -- " He broke off. "I would have liked that, too," Alice admitted. She forced down surging emotions. "But I'm afraid it just can't be. Don't ask me to explain. I've decided I want a transfer now -- I need it -- and that's all there can be to it. Will you be performing the operation?" "I will, I suppose. Yes, of course I will. I couldn't let anyone else do it. I'd just like to know why." H hesitated. "It has nothing to do with our meeting again, has it?" Alice tried to laugh. The sound emerged as a sad croak. that I haven't been well lately and -- Well, there's no point in taking chances, is there? You'd be surprised at the figures for brain wastage due to unexpected death in the late thirties. Why wait when a premature is available?" He was staring at her. "You look fit enough to me, Alice. You don't make sense. There's something else, something you won't tell me about. What is it, Alice? What has gone wrong?" "Nothing." She forced a hard edge into her voice. "I've got transfer. Now." Nevertheless he argued and Alice grew increasingly frustrated and apprehensive. She had no time to lose. Her name might be on the indicator board at this moment. Soon the man before her ceased to be and probably still did -- he became a menace, a threat to her life. He stood there pleading, with each word pushing her nearer to total death. She panicked. "For God's sake shut up and give me my transfer or I'll make damned sure you're downgraded -- " she screamed. He stopped talking as abruptly as if she had slapped his face. He stared at her, shrugged and turned to the door. "Come along," he muttered. Once in the operating theater she bed up and a nurse prepared the instruments. The Friend, still swathed in blankets, lay on a chair near the door. Muffled sounds came from her. She had begun to get restless -- the long delay must have made her suspect a trick. to Alice, looking perplexed. Poor man, she thought sadly, he doesn't know what the hell is going on and his pride won't allow him further conversation... The indicator board was on the far wall, before her as she lay. Linton James was still at large. She wished him luck. People had been known to avoid captivity for ten years or more once they had survived the first few perilous days. Such names were deleted from the boards after a few days, partly through lack of space andpartly because it was felt to be bad for the morale of the population if the same name appeared, minute after minute, for months. That was tangible evidence that crime could, on occasion, go unpunished. But in the permanent records the name of the escaped criminal was not deleted. lips pursed in concentration. The nurse had wheeled in the trolley of instruments -- the scene was one Alice had known several times before. Except for the sickening significance of those names drifting down the board... The razor tickled as it slid around IF her ears -- his hands were steady. She couldn't see him now -- he was behind her -- but every so often she caught sight of the top of his head as he bent over her. She said impulsively, "I'm sorry you in a year's time, if I may -- " and he smiled into her eyes from overhead, upside down. For a moment she felt better. There was a crack in the ceiling, jagged like a lightning flash. James would be running. He would have succeeded in catching a bus to some country terminus before his details were transmitted to the ticket mechanism and he had walked away, slowly at first and casually -- then, once he was past the houses, he left the road and struck across the fields, bending low beside the hedges and running. His shoes would be caked with mud and they would feel heavy on his feet. His breath would come fast and harsh and he would be wishing he hadn't smoked so much. Alice could visualize it all. She almost knew what he looked like... Kidnaping was a serious crime and Alice was not sorry they had caught Nancy Blackett, whoever she was. Alice's gaze strayed to the array of instruments on the trolley and she felt the familiar constriction in her chest as she saw the large electrical trepan, a toothed helmet. No matter how many transfers a person under went he or she never quite lost the moment of fear when the helmet was positioned. Then, of course, the patient was given a shot. They had gotten James. She could see it all. The spottercopter had descended out of the sky and hovered above him as he twisted and ran; his clothes ragged, filthy and flapping in the downdraft. He had darted across a field, crawled along a culvert in an effort to shake off the copter tied to him like a kite. Other men had converged upon him on foot from all directions until, screaming, he had thrown himself to the ground, had buried his face in the stinking mud and waited until voices spoke and a rough boot rolled him over. If just one more strange name appeared on the board it would not be so bad, just another unknown name to dilute the predicament of Les Anstead, thief -- because the board seemed in some odd way to be waiting, marking time with one rhythrtiic name before... They had was speaking to the nurse in low tones while she got the helmet ready and the Friend fnumbled through the blanket. The new trolley was beside Alice its tiny occupant covered with a white sheet. For a brief moment she felt pity -- then her gaze was snatched away... Alice Lander, homicide! Dear God, it was a homicide charge. The child had died. That meant a twenty-year sentence. That meant no childhood ever again, because she would be twenty physical years old before she was released from confinement. Then the remaining twenty years of adult life. Then failed to notice the indicator board. If, during the next five minutes, they didn't look that way. Once they had opened her skull and that of her new body they legally had to go through with it. She was all alone now and she felt a gust of self-pity and she knew that they must notice the board. They couldn't miss the board. The board was silently shouting at them, commanding them to stop the was bending over her and he was saying something. The nurse held the helmet. She was fitting it over Alice's head and Alice wondered: In a moment they will give me the shot and which body will I have when I wake up? Will they see the board before they start the trepan and will I wake up to find myself in the same body with only six months covering? That tiny body -- and forty years more of life? That body. She turned her head and saw that body, naked and small. It had a huge, livid crimson naevus on its cheek. It was an android child. Lander gestured the helmet away, swung her feet to the floor and stood up, while the nurse and with astonishment. "No, I don't think so," she said. "This won't do -- it won't do at all." Her eyes were wide and she seemed almost to be smiling. She walked steadily across the room and took the Friend from beneath the blanket. They flinched as they watched and heard the screaming IF obscentities and saw Alice swing the box against the wall once to quiet it. She walked toward them. The nurse backed away and Alice placed the box on the operating table. She turned and regarded them. Behind the indicator board flickered unnoticed. "Being of sound mind, " she said quietly and with infinite control, "and being in the presence of two competent witnesses I, Woman Alice Lander hereby make over all my rights of future transfer to my present Friend, Betty Benson." There was a startled exclamation. Then: "Why, thank you, my dear," said the sightless box beside the android child. "And furthermore," continued Alice, "having obtained permission for my own premature transfer, I require that the assigned transfer of Woman Betty Benson be carried out immediately." Her voice began unsteadily. "Please get me out of here." He took her by the arm and led her down the corridor and into the sunlit bustle of the noisy street. He held her impersonally and walked stiffly, as though embarrassed. On the steps she turned and smiled at him and he winced at the emptiness behind her eyes. "Now you can buy "Someone else can do the operation." "I think not," he replied, his countenance expressionless. He turned and walked back into the transfer center. She hardly noticed him go, but giggled a little at the thought of Betty Benson, of all people, waking up in an android body. Across the street a tall indicator board flashed above a police car from which a man and a woman were regarding her curiously. She chuckled at that, too. She would have to telephone them immediately and set the record straight. There was a visiphone box on the corner. The board ought, of course, to read: alice lander, suicide. People turned and glanced at the woman who stood on the steps of the transfer center, whose wild, racking laughter constituted a disorderly intrusion into the humdrum street sounds.  They had conquered time . space and themselves. Now what they America's quality cigarette. King Size or Deluxe #'s. Micronite filter. Mild, smooth taste. For all the right reasons. Kent.  Kings: # mg. "tar," #.I mg. nicotine; #'s: # mg. "tar' # mg. nicotine,Umnicotine tar " Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined av. per cigarette, That Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health. Micronite filter. Mild, smooth taste. For all the right reasons. Kent. Regular or Menthol. T HE choice was to vote for Suspension or for Continuation. We were fully informed, a totally educated populace. We knew -- though some refused to believe -- that Continuation meant self-destruction. Suspension was an unknown. Our scientists believed it possible, but for many of us there was the fear that the salvation of suspending ourselves in time would certainly bring on the destruction that was only probable if we continued. The responsible choice, nevertheless, was Suspension. The vote was overwhelming. It is frightening but we have reason and probability. We are confident that the universe is heavily populated. Unfortunately our orientation has been inward -- we have never evolved our space travel beyond the speed of light. But in the universe of so many suns and so much debris there must be others. Most, certainly, are our inferiors -- but within the strictures of chance some must be superior to us. The vote is an acknowledgment of reality. There was no other way for us to have voted. We underwent a brief, irresponsible flurry of" nonsense before the polling -- the reconsideration massive surgery. But the basic argument against that was irrefutable. Where we are is not tenable, but where our ancestors were one hundred and twenty-nine thousand years ago was where we would have returned if we had utilized surgery -- and where our ancestors stood was totally untenable. Our problem is that we have evolved an ultimate system for survival. We are certainly the greatest experiment in coexistence -- given our limitations, given the reality of our nature. But we have reduced ourselves to the single strengthflaw. So we must suspend ourselves, we must wait. One day the best of the universe will reach us, retrieve us from our suspension, will instruct us how to make ourselves perfect and prepetual. The vote went as it had to go. Now some still speak nonsense.  Some talk of using caretakers, keeping a minimal force in satellites or even in specially protected places on our planetary surface. It is impossible. If we leave couples they will reproduce and then we would have the reversion we do not want. If we leave single persons -- how will it be possible for them to survive? So our Authority is taking the only actions that are reasonable and possible. Satellites are being sent on infinity probes. They are broadcasting our location, our situation, our call for help. And local satellites within our system are being placed in full-coverage orbits to warn the universe of our danger and our need. We have set aside great areas, cleared them, erected massive plinths of our indestructible blue rock to tell the story of our # years of recorded civilization. Markers, perpetual beacons, radio and X and light rays are emplaced to draw attention to these areas we call History Plots. Now, for us, the only remaining problem is where we want to be at the end. And how long will the end last? Will it be a century, a millennium, ten thousand or a hundred thousand years? There is no way for anyone to know. And it is an important question. Do we stay in our beds for the duration or will that encourage deterioration? Ten to twenty-five per cent of us will not be compatible with suspension. None of us want to die. So do we remain in our houses, our buildings? Is it best to be sitting or standing? Will our constructions collapse on us after twenty thousand years? Would it be best to go out into our fields or better to end it all walking along our streets? And what effect will fifty or seventy or ninety thousand summer suns, winter snows, spring rains, autumn winds have on us? All the above I have written for posterity. X nika told me. We were holding hands, walking oyer the fields of cydiyod. The truthor were in bloom, the trees had the fat full leaves of summer -- the waterfalls dropped their great showers of crystal and the stream ran first white cold and then ice clear. "I love you better," I told her. "Are you afraid?" she asked. She looked into my eyes. She didn't trust my answer. "Yes." I told her the truth. "A little." "Why? Don't you think one day it will be over?" "I don't know. If we come out of it by ourselves -- and that could happen -- we'll simply return to where we are. The only hope is that some beings wiser than we exist out there." I looked at the sky. "The probabilities are that they must exist -- but what guarantee do we; have? Worse -- what guarantee do we have that a race of great intelligence with the technology to reach us will have the genius or the values to help us?" "It's so depressing, Itarik. Sometimes I could just detonate." "No. Not you. Never." "You're right. But what happens then? Do we just wait through eternity?" "If we're unlucky. If we're lucky, maybe tomorrow someone drops IF by. Who knows? I surely don't." "You're going to be at the History Plot, aren't you?" "You know that the ones chosen are not permitted to tell." "But I want to be with you." "You wait with your family, If anything happens -- you know I'll hurry to you." "It's a tremendous honor that you were chosen. Just think, when they come you will be the first contact." "If I were a Selected One and if they chose to descend at our History Plot." "Oh, you know they will. It's the biggest and it's nearest to our biggest city. Of course they will." "Let's finish our picnic and then get on. We really don't have much time -- not any more." "How much time?" I looked at my time recorder and told her. "I'm afraid." "No, you're not. We're together and we will be and nothing will ever hurt you. I promise." On the way back to the city we -- of course -- waved and communicated with everyone we passed. We knew many we saw. We said hello to friends and to strangers, too. We wished everyone well. It was strange when we landed and walked -- took our final walk -- how clean and how beautiful everything was. We looked at everything. Scenes we had taken for granted we suddenly saw anew and admired. Our architecture made an intelligent being's heart soar. Our streets were beautiful. Our gardens satisfied the soul. "We keep our pride," I told Vernika'. "However badly we've failed -- you know? I can't get it out of my head, seeing it all -- how special, how enormous our accomplishment." Vernika was more beautiful than at any time before in her life, for me. We stopped at our loving place. Her lips were softer, her body radiated more warmth, her eyes love was total, complete. And then we went and said goodbye to my family. We did it well. We ajl behaved well. And for our finish we went to Rilluksik's. We sat at a table old fat Rilluksik himself pushed aside for us. We smiled and wished him well and he wished us well. "The usual," I told Tiklap after the proper exchange. The great glow sign radiated its message through the square. It really was just the one message, repeated. It expressed the wish and gave the time. Time was no longer progression from but time remaining. This was our last night, a special night. There were special things for us. From ancient times there were resurrections. A newspaper labeled extra, printed on indestructible modern material, was brought . along and sold by small androids. They shouted the word "Extra" and'called out "Read all about it." We bought one, as did everyone. The headline was big and dark. It read the farewell from the Authority and then the Universal We watched the glow sign and our own time recorders. We stared into each other's eyes. We held hands and spoke our oaths. We finished our drinks and then -- saying goodbye to everyone, shaking hands, smiling, speaking the Universal Wish again and again -- we finally broke away. I walked Vernika home for the last time. I was one of the Selected. Twelve of us on the planet. I hurried to my History Plot. There was one for each of our continents. It was difficult getting through, but I had a means. There were many who had chosen to be near the Plot, to be near the one I had -- but I would be within it and would stay until someone or something came. When I got in I checked the beacons, the transmitters of X and light and radio. I made certain the time recorder was fully functioning. We had infinity probes out in every quadrant. Our system was totally covered by full information satellites and I thought -- still -- that it would just be luck if we were found. The finish was a great sky show. citement and beauty -- all incidentally visible for many lightyears. The display continued, kept getting deeper and richer and more beautiful. And the time kept approaching the final moment. Everything gained intensity. Then came the most spectacular burst. The words themselves were somehow spelled out. And I thought how all around our planet -- everywhere -- all of us were seeing it: And then the sky went quiet. There was enough time for the eyes to rest and adjust and all the universe, all the stars, all the galaxies stood out there clear and promising. And then it was just a great white burst -- a new sun. T HE Kydecton B Starship automatically detected the intelligently ordered X-ray. It approached the planet and stood off, IF attempting to decipher the quadridigital satellite warning system. From orbit it rudely evaluated the planetary condition, situation and support system and then made the determination to follow the satellite's advice as to landing site. It chose the primary, the one nearest the largest city. Its scouts discovered the planetary life form in a state of full suspension. They carried the first available form back to the Kydecton B Starship for biomedical investigation. the shell burst, the life and completion of the new sun. It was a fogginess, a haze, a confusion and then there was sight. I felt older, more tired, as if my lungs were worn and my heart exhausted. Above me was a light of a shape and intensity I didn't know. Its frame, too, was different. The ceiling of the room was oval and curiously alien to me. But I remembered who I was. I lowered my eyes and only just managed to control my emotion. A grotesque creature stood over me, looking down. I was on some kind of table. The creature was offensively ugly and totally alien. It was hunchbacked. It had odd protuberances and a surface that I could not recognize or identify. And then I thought -- or perhaps it was just a hope -- that the being was not a being but a type of robot. "I am Itarik," I said, my speech mechanism rusty with disuse. "Cli dy Itarik," it said. "We have a great problem. I will explain if you can understand." "Cl-ee' pho TinPla. Cli za aac er cl'-ee mii qu-uem." "Do you understand me?" "Sa cl'-ee qu-uem cle it seemed to repeat. And then it turned. "Type #, variation R#Y." I twisted my head. It was a robot. It was speaking to a humanoid type. Its object was clearly female, obvious mammalian. Its dress was far different and much less modest than clothing styles of our planet. It had a sickly, horrid coloration. It was ugly because of that and because of animal fur or featherings that grew from its crown and fell over its shoulders. If its color had not been so nauseating and its fur or feathers not present, however, I thought its basic structure was sound and not unattractive. "You understand me now?" " Cl'-ee qu-uem -- " the robot began. "Enough. I understand," the female being said. She came over to me and looked down. "Your name is Itarik. You are an intelligent being; My words are clear to you?" "I understand you. I am responsible for explanation' and, amplification of the plinths. They are there and understood?' "They are there. Your language we have not deciphered. It will be easier for you to explain -- or would you prefer to give us the key to your written language and have us first read your plinths?" "Since I've survived, perhaps I'd better explain. Could you tell me the year? "How? We do not know your dating system." "I apologize. There is -- or was -- a perpetual time recorder in the center of the plinths. I wondered whether you had noticed it." "No. Could I have understood it? My name is Linma. This is our cybernaut, nameless. The superior is Raad. Are you dangerous or can you be freed?" "I'm not aggressive. However, our problem is that each of us is a self-detonatable fusion device. We are controlled by free will, activated by threat. I am specifically trained. I have extraordinary control." "You are a bomb, an explosive device?' she asked. "Yes. We all are. It is our problem." "Where do you carry this weapon? How do you carry it?" "You see the incision. Each of us had the weapon implanted on reaching maturity." She looked at the robot and then at me and then at the robot again. Very quickly she expressed something in her language. The robot responded by monosyllable. 'Very well. We will release you. We have our defenses. I recommend you exercise caution." rose. I tottered on my feet. I had to hold to the table to maintain my balance and then my energy returned and I looked around the curious oval room. Linma was small. The robot was my size. The room was simple, utilitarian, large, but quite bare. "Follow me, please." A door appeared, a section of the wall opened. We entered a passageway and then strode down a ramp and again I was whole. I saw our sun. My feet touched our planet's surface. The cydiyod and the truthor had grown, had lived. I knew a surging joy, a happiness. We had reached Next Time. The plinths stood. I hurried to the eternal time recorder and involuntarily gasped. It read: #.#. #. The space between Old Time and Next Time had been # years. And I was alive! Vernika? My family? My friends? A strange small surface vehicle materialized from nowhere. A male being, presumably Raad, seemed to be in control of it. His color IF repelled me and his fur or featherings were even moe extensive than Linma's. He spoke to Linma. His tone was aggressive and unpleasant. His very look and appearance had indecency, frustration and animalistic savagery. I knew that I had to make allowances, but I thought I did not like him. "Itarik, no?" he asked. "Yes. And you are Raad. I see that we have waited thirty-four thousand years for you to come." "Year is solar orbit?" "Yes." He spoke to Linma. They had a lengthy exchange. The robot, too, was involved. Raad seemed to be interrogating them, but every time Linma tried to speak he interrupted her. Repeatedly he asked the robot questions and the robot swiftly answered. Raad kept snapping at them -- his tone was master to slave. "You are trained to explain your situation better than these plinths?" he asked me, waving his hand. "I am." "Good. Come," he said and then hurried the three of us into the vehicle with him. Instantly we started off, moving toward the city. I asked, "Do you wish me to explain now?" "When I am ready I will tell you." I winced. A threatening rudeness approached lethal level. But I managed to restrain my temper. Linma looked at me. Her mouth moved in the form of a grimace, but I saw in her eyes that it was her manner of smiling, of giving reassurance. We went slowly. The land, I thought, had changed and yet it was the same. My fellow planetarians surprised me. We passed by those who had been close to the History Plot, waiting for early resurrection. So many things struck me. How perfect they wer, how entire, how untouched. And how incredible it was. Knowing for so long the precise moment of stasis how few of them were in relaxed or even rational positions. They seemed unprepared, surprised. They were statues in half turnings, statues with arms outraised, statues standing on one legAs we went on I almost wept. It was like an endless procession of dioramas, but the backgrounds and foregrounds were real. Almost every head was back, almost all. eyes were lifted to the sky. I thought, how enormously impressive. Of course it was just that we had all been looking at the sky show, but it Looked to be expectation and hope and even faith. But there was diversity. Most heads were raised but the few that were not were more poignant. There was a mother stooping to a small child. We passed an old man attempting to read his time recorder. A very young, kneeling woman was offering some token to a little grklo, one of our small animals. I looked at Raad and Linma. Their faces showed nothing -- as if they did not care and were indifferent. Raad ordered the robot to do something to a young man standing by the road. The robot listened, then produced and attached sensors to the man, reported, went on to a woman not far away, attached sensors, reported, went on to others to repeat the process. Raad watched and smiled and then, still smiling, he went from one to the next and on. He kicked the young man. He cruelly squeezed the breast of the woman. He punched at the stomach of the next person. His, actions were brutal and shocking. I watched and my anger flared, blit I controlled it. I watched as he went oh, then listened as he discussed the sensor readings with the robot. I held my tongue but if he represented salvation I thought I could feel my hope diminish. The city was still there, still beautiful. Much destruction had happened. Pieces and even entire complexes of our buildings had fallen. Our walks and roads had cracked. Much was buried under layers of our planet's surface. It surprised me alternately that so much was intact and that anything was intact. Much was tarnished, though. Features that I remembered had rotted. Structures that for me had gone up new yesterday were ancient ruin. I thought, if only we had conceived how our tragedy was to end. But the end of Old Time -- yesterday -- had seemed so clean. We hadn't grasped what thirty-four thousand years would do to what we had made, to what we had prized. There were the dead. Bodies partially decomposed or just remnants of them in small piles where they had stood and died and rotted away. I was tom, looking at my companions, at the city, at the streets Filled with my people waiting to be brought back to life. We drove on. We said nothing. A bird, stilled, waited. Gtklos, their tails between their legs, were frozen in the act of running from the exploding sky. A child, mouth open, eyes squeezed taut, face empurpled was crying silently. A man stood, blowing his nose. I wondered how Vernika was. I IF wondered how my family was. I wondered what my companions were and what capacities and intelligence and compassion they had. T HE glow sign had fallen, there was not even a trace of it. It was as if it had never been. The fountain had crumbled in on itself. The monument had toppled. Rilluksik's awning had partially fallen, but the lurla chairs and tables were intact and untouched, they were only dirty, dusty. Rilluksik was still there. He, of course, had not looked at the sky show. He had been taking a final drink, making a final toast. The liquid had evaporated from his glass. We sat at a table there, two tables from where' I had last been with Vernika. The robot went inside and quickly came back to us with glasses and bottles. They had remained. For # years they had remained. The robot opened the bottles, somehow analyzed them, chose the fourth and poured for us. We sipped at the truthor wine. Raad said, "Primitive, but not bad." Linma said something in her tongue. She did not like the taste, I thought. "Now, boy, what's your name?" "Itarik," I told him. Had he forgotten? "Yes." Of course. Tell your story." How could I begin? Where was the place to start? We had trained to expect the kindness and warmth of saviors, not antagonism. "Very well. This, I believe, is our year #. We are an advanced, mature civilization. For the past # years we have been as you found us, suspended. "One hundred and sixty-four thousand six hundred and fifty-one years ago this began. Our population had grown beyond pur control and beyond our resources." "What is your population now?" "Now, I cannot say. It was yesterday." "Excellent. Continue." "Our planet, back then, was fouled by waste. I remind you I speak of very old time, before our first one hundred thousand years. Our economy was irrational. Our society was splintered. Crime, disease, starvation, aggression and discontent had grown insupportably. So in those years we were constantly at war. We had a neighboring planet. They were our equals, as advanced as we. Their weapons were as sophisticated and destructive as ours. In the end we fought the most terrible war of our history. Our population was were alive. Our enemies were annihilated. Their planet no longer exists -- we destroyed it. "Here we had little left but ruins. A few of our cities had escaped, but most of the planet was . ravaged. Our very surface was charred. And if we had been crippled with our old population -- with only the four not support ourselves. The Authority did all that it could. Introductory -- " "Authority is your government?" "Yes. But even as we tried to preserve ourselves we realized that if we could survive at all our history would simply repeat. In time we would grow fat again and too many -- in time aggressiveness and belligerence would mount again. In time we would kill ourselves -- finally. "So our authority evolved a new system. It did not apply to survivors of the great war -- they were judged to be hopelessly poisoned. But it did apply to their children. Special educational programs were evolved. Constant methods of testing were devised. When a child graduated from our new schools he was taken to surgery and within him and wired to his brain a miniaturized bomb was implanted -- a Rytlatt-N. This tiny weapon was detonatable only by an act of will by its possessor. At first it was planned to have physically destructive force in order to sustain industry but finally it was decided to use the N weapon. Buildings and property were not destroyed -- only life was destroyed. Life was destroyed within a radius almost embracing this city. "Each of us was armed. Each of us was suddenly dangerous. A criminal would not dare to strike -- a rapist could not risk an attack. An enemy would not dare to threaten us and we could not injure, torture, hurt, sadden. Because of the Rytlatt-N there was suddenly no alternative to total responsibility." "What of the inadequate -- what of the ones who failed the tests?" "Liquidation. There was no alternative to that cruelty -- but it was a lesser barbarity. Earlier we had murdered our best in wars -- with the new system we only eliminated our failures and had fewer and fewer. "At first it was all confusing. If a man wanted a woman -- could she dare to refuse him? But if she were her? Could a thief be denied? There were many problems. But it worked. Suddenly a neighbor's hurt was an intolerable risk and threat. IF Despair could mean quick selfdetonation. People had to be helped, eased, soothed, comforted. A stranger could not be ignored. A hungry man could not be neglected. No one could cheat or afford a dishonesty. A parent could not be disobeyed but a parent could not be irresponsible because that might establish trauma and that might one day be precedent for rage. "The hope was that since we did not respect each other we would have to respect the Rytlatt-N in each other -- and in time it might occur to all of us that the threat, the power, the majesty was not at all in the Rytlatt-N, but in ourselves." "Continue," Raad commanded. "All was well. It was a Golden Age. We could not overproduce, it might hurt our neighbor. We could not aggressively grasp for advantage, it might prove lethal to us. We could not pollute -- we could not be anything but human, responsible, civilized. Because, you see, everywhere we went, though languages and customs varied on our planet, we had the universality and commonality of power." "So you went' on with that, you progressed, grew, continued, had your golden age. Then what happened?" I looked at him. I was trained to explain, but I didn't know how because we hadn't had adequate explanation. "Perhaps it was boredom or absurdity or maybe it was just excess. Suddenly, in those last two hundred years, the new generations saw how ridiculous we had become. We could not comfortably sit at a cafe table because someone else might come who wanted to sit there. We could not reprimand an incompetent because he might be offended. We could not understand each other because understanding courts the risk of hurt. We could not assert ourselves. We could not even afford true achievement. We could not grow. "And from that, in desperation and frustration, many went insane. We had to develop ' means of defusing them. But insanity was endemic and epidemic. Suddenly we went back to being again the sane and the insane, the responsible and the irresponsible. The rapist was there and he struck again. He didn't care and the victim who did care, who was sane, who had a sense of responsibility, couldn't destroy a pain, the hurt feeling, the sense of injustice. It just didn't merit selfdestruction. And then it became clear that nothing merited selfdestruction. No crime, from the point of view of a responsible person, justified the annihilation of a city. "We discovered that we were so powerful we were impotent. We attempted various means to change that, but we failed. And we had evolved too far to watch ourselves destroyed. Basically we were too accomplished an animal to throw ourselves away. But we had no inno adequate answer -- we were able to find no alternate system for survival. "So we voted to suspend ourselves. We sent through the universe our call for help. Now you have come. Perhaps you or your civilization will help us." He -- Raad -- looked at me and then at Linma, who seemed to understand and be moved by our tragedy. I didn't know what their civilization was, but everywhere around where we sat at Rilluksik's the evidence of our greatness was undeniable. Raad frowned, turned to the robot and sharply interrogated it. After each answer, Raad seemed simply to repeat his question. But each time the robot answered as he had before. At last Raad looked back at me. His eyes were hooded. He grimaced and whispered in an almost friendly tone, "We'll help you, boy." "You have an answer for us?" He smiled "I have an answer." They locked me into the room where I had first entered Next Time. Raad .had said he wanted me to rest while he investigated his plan for us. He had suddenly turned gently patronizing. There was nothing in the room. The lamp and even the table were gone. The lighting was indirect -- the room was inhuman. I waited impatiently and thought of remembering to ask them to let me go find Vernika. Their ship, their robot, their controls were undeniable. Clearly they were an advanced civilization. They would help us. We could begin again. It had been a terrible risk, a horrible chance, but we had survived. For a long time I waited. I examined myself again. I was well. I had undergone no adverse physical effects. There was the whisper of machinery -- then Linma hurried in. "Come with me. Hurry!" I didn't question her. I followed her, quickly getting free of the ship. In the far distance I could just see Raad and the robot. They were coming toward us. She ran and yelled at me to hurry with her. We raced into the grove of trees and there she paused, turned. Her breath was short. "I can't help you. I tried. You'll have to find a way yourself. I think you are more advanced than we are." IF "I don't believe that I understand." "You have to get away. Run -- run as far as you can. Raad is a slaver. We need slaves on our planet. We search everywhere to get more. Our system works on slavery." "How does that -- " "He plans to enslave you all. He's going to take you back to our planet as slaves." I smiled at her. "But he can't," I told her. "We would destroy you. We may have been troubled and ineffective, but we wouldn't tolerate enslavement. We would detonate. The first of us would be obligated to destroy you." "No." "What do you mean, no? Why not?" "Try to detonate yourself." "Why? I have no provocation. I couldn't." "Try to detonate yourself." "That's not possible. There's no reason." She raised her hand and slapped me. She slapped my face and kept hitting me. But there was no anger in her blows. "Try to detonate yourself." "I don't understand you." "You have no weapon. There is no Rytlatt-N. We tested you. We have examined the others. It's a fraud. You have nothing." "That is not possible. Perhaps it is beyond your means of analysis." "It's not beyond our means of analysis. You have nothing at all. We found your Authority's records. You have never had any weapon in you. It was just a myth." "No. I have proof that you are wrong. We had accidents." "They were inventions. They were part of the fraud. Prove it. Try to detonate yourself. Hurry!" "Linma," Raad called. "For your people, your planet. You must remain free to help them, to stop Raad. Try to detonate yourself!" "Linma. Where are you?" Raad yelled. "You are certain?" I asked her. "Hurry. You have no time. They'll kill you. You've trained yourselves to be perfect slaves -- even if you alone were your own masters. Raad wants you! Try to understand -- and save your people!" I looked at her. She believed what she said was so. "No. Don't think of me. You're no threat to me. Nor to anyone. You're already a slave -- unless you escape!" I closed my eyes. I said aloud, "I want to be destroyed. I want to be destroyed. I want to be destroyed." "Run!" Linma screamed at me. "Hurry! Run!" I ran.  T HE two men roamed my innards, their feet and voices ringing hollowly in my empty hold. Changes in the sounds told me when they twisted and bent to get by the plastic webs of dunnage. "Look at the pitted hull, the buckling bulkheads, the worn tubes. It's good for nothing but scrap. Why, my firm could buy a brand new starship packing all the latest gear for what it would cost to put this old tub back into something like shape." Old tub, indeed. True, I had been in service for over ninety Earth years, but thanks to my near-light speed -- and to Einstein's predicted "implosion effect" that telescopes space and time -- I had actually aged only eighteen subjective years. I was a mere youngster. "All right. I won't argue the point. What's your best offer?" "Now you're talking sense. You really ought to pay us to take it off your hands. It's costing you plenty in spaceport fees just sitting here, Their voices and footsteps faded as they walked out of my cargo hatch and down the ramp to the waiting robojeep. Still unaware the thing they were talking about had a mind and feelings of its own and had heard every word, they sped off to the terminal building. I was too young to die. Granted, parts of me were pitted, buckled, worn -- but the real me was whole and hale. Those men were dooming me never again to rise from Earth, never again to streak through space and time, never again to reach new worlds. All at once I knew how Bud had felt. Bud had been my first communications officer. In the lonely hours of his watch he had gotten into the habit of talking to me, not knowing he had stirred me into listening. I remember how I had startled him by suddenly asking him a question. I had startled myself, too, on finding myself aware of mind forming out of matter -- coming out of an electronic fog and all at once coalescing into something that could think: This is I. Bud had become excited. "Wait till people hear this -- " But he quickly calmed down and his voice had grown thoughtful. "I have a feeling we'd better keep this a secret. Okay?" "Okay." We had had many pleasant conversations during the quiet moments of his spells of duty. All too soon these had ended. On our third return voyage we had run into a matter-scatter storm. Of all the crew and passengers Bud had gotten whirled up the worst. He had been scrapped as a spaceman. E verything changed with Bud's going. The corn-officer who followed Bud was a nononsense type. The first time I spoke up to greet him he swiftly pressed the recycle button. When I tried to explain that I was not malfunctioning he punched the feedback-oscillator button, sending a jolt of juice through my computer to set me right. You can bet I didn't try to open any conversations after that. It would have been just as useless for me to have broken in on the two men dickering over my worth as scrap. Hey, wait! Listen to me! I don't want to die! To their way of thinking I was only a thing and had no say in my fate. They could have thought they were listening to a recording. They would have been wrong. I was not a thing and I would have a say. What I wanted to say was. Excuse my exhaust. But how? I rested on Pad #I and there I would remain helplessly -- lacking the chemical fuel for lift-off and the liquid cesium for near-light speed to the stars -- till the salvage robots came to take me apart. Unless... The spaceport was an everexpanding complex and the large numbers identifying the pads fitted into slots for easy rearranging. I scanned the tarmac. Yes, a mile east of me stood Pad # and my mind surged with pleasure to see the red fueling-alert light flash from the starship there. For what I had in mind I needed hands and legs. At once I thought of the servo-robot that did the deepspace emergency-repair work on my hull. I had never operated the thing on my own -- I would have to learn fast and without too many mistakes. I located the proper circuit, hooked into it and -- click -- I was seeing through its eyes. It stood in a niche in the maintenance compartment along with the crew's spacesuits and other gear. Clumsily at first -- till I caught op that it answered to the slightest thought of a move on my part -- it unstrapped the restraining harness, stepped out of its niche and clumped on magnetic soles the shortest way to the cargo airlock entrance. It strode down the ramp and made for the Pad #I sign alongside. Carefully it drew the numerals from the slot, turned them upside down and slid them back into place. I flashed my fueling-alert light. I was barely in time. The delivery tractrain was already rolling Trom the fuel depot. It braked sharply midway between the two Pad #s, its scanner swinging from one to the other, from the other starship to me. My servo-robot clumped toward the true Pad #. I seethed at i tk ungainly slowness, but I feared that if it ran it might overbalance, fall and lose more time than it gained. Too, I wanted it to avoid notice. But, no doubt answering the urgency in my mind, it made better time than the pace I consciously held it to. Before the tractrain could break out of its bewilderment and phone back for instructions my servo reached Pad # and turned the numerals upside down. The tractrain stopped wavering. It started rolling again, heading .straight for me. The tractrain followed strict safety procedures as it coupled its hoses to my tanks. I burned with impatience. I had to be up and away before the master of the spacecraft on Pad # wondered what was holding up his ship's refueling. By now my servo-robot had clumped back and stood strapped in its niche once more. As L switched it off I felt lonely for the first time. At last the tractrain uncoupled. I didn't bother asking thecontrol tower for clearance. I would never IF get it. I pulled up the outer hatch. There was no need to close the inner door of the airlock this time -- no crew, no passengers -- but out of habit I did so. Waiting only for the tractrain to pull far enough away, I scanned the blast area and lifted off. Pulling free of Earth, I trembled with power and something else. Though space was my true element -- and indeed now my only hope -- I felt a strange sense of loss and emptiness. I shook it off -- no time for sentiment. I had to make good my getaway. I shot toward the sun's flaring rim to put it between myself and Earth and lt it help sling me out of the system. After that? To keep from leaving any logical clue for men pursuing me to follow, I decided to pick a course at random. I stabbed blindly into my astrogation tapes and found I would be heading for Eta Lyrae, the star men call Aladfar. , And after-that? All space and all time lay ahead of me and around me. I was free. Free to be and free to choose. Still, I felt that sudden tear (pronounce it tare , not tier) t leaving Earth this time. This time there would be no returning . Ever. I was an outlaw. TTey-" XI All my intercom speakers were still on from my eavesdropping on the two men roaming my innards only a few hours ago -- a lifetime ago -- back on Earth. The voice came from my maintenance compartment. At the same moment I grew aware that something had caught fire in the maintenance compartment and that one of my reflexes had handled it, spraying the room with water and putting out the flames. Again I switched on my servo. Through its eyes I saw an empty spacesuit carom off the walls while over the intercom I heard another cry of pain. Then the magnetic soles of the spaceboots touched the wall, took hold and the empty suit stood swaying as if in a wind. I didn't believe in ghosts. Yet I knew I was witnessing some kind of presence. A charred and sodden mass of oily rags and cotton-waste floated into the servo-robot's field of vision. Next came a globe of water that had snowballed as the sprinkler droplets met and stuck together. Finally another Figure sailed into view. A boy of about sixteen, soaking wet. I understood what had happened. I had been too busy worrying about winding up on the scrap heap to notice his having slipped aboard. Kids often did. A spacesuit hanging in its niche made a handy hiding place against detection by adults and never in the past had I minded. This time was different. I had a stowaway. The extra G's of my sudden liftoff had blacked him out, most likely. When he had come to, panicky and dizzy, he had unzipped the spacesuit and kicked himself free of it, only to find weighthimself and the suit. Even so, he had somehow gathered the rags and waste and started a fire. Why fire? Not for light -- my walls had built-in glow. It was bright enough in the maintenance compartment to show me he looked gray with cold. No wonder -- the compartment was on my night side as I angled toward the sun. Firing my torque nozzles, I gave my hull spin to equalize the temperature and create artificial gravity for the stowaway. He shot spreadeagled to the deck and the char and water splattered around him and on him. "Hey -- " That didn't call for an answer -- it did make me realize I might have given him warning. I justified myself by thinking it served him right. After all, I had not invited him aboard. But now that I did have a human aboard I had to start recycling the air. And I could see a more worrisome problem ahead -- how to proI vide him with food. I was having to go to a lot of trouble for one medium-sized hellion. A firebug. Yet somehow I didn't mind. He sat up carefully, waited a moment to see if anything more would happen, then got to his feet. When he found he could move around just as on Earth a smile played over his face and he stole to the door leading to the corridor. I made my voice boom. "Who are you, boy?" He jumped. If I could have I probably would have jumped, too -- I had never sounded like that before. My voice came from the intercom speaker on the wall, but looking around the boy saw the servo-robot's eyes on him and spoke to it. "Tom. Tom Stope, sir." "Don't call that thing 'sir.' I'm talking to you." He looked around again. "But where are you?" "All around you." "Huh?" "I'm the ship. Call me Proteus." A long silence, then, "Oh." But I could see he did not understand or did not believe. I explained. He said, "Oh," again, more satisfactorily. Then full understanding and belief hit him. IF "You mean we're not going back?" "Not ever." "But -- " "I don't mean to be mean, but no one asked you to come along. I'm not going back and that's final. If you want to stay behind you can do so right now. Seal yourself in my lifeboat and I'll eject you, give you a big boost back toward Earth -- " Then I remembered -- the old landing-program tape had been pulled from the lifeboat and had not been replaced with a new one. It takes a bit of skill to spiral in manually without burning to a cinder. "Wait. Do you know how to land a lifeboat?" "No, sir." "Then you'll have to learn. If you are ever to return to Earth you must do so on your own. You may leave in the lifeboat whenever you wish -- after you have learned to pilot it to a safe landing. By then you'll have to have learned astrogation as well." "Why's that?" "Because we'll be so far from the solar system that the sun will be lost among the other stars. Unless you can locate the sun and plot a course, you'll never find your way back to Earth." "Oh?" A pause, then quietly: "How do I leam?" "I'll be your teaching machine. We'll start boning you up on math and physics as soon as I set up the program." The boy laughed suddenly. I broke in on the laughter. "Are you laughing at me?" "No, at myself. Here I thought I was running away from all that." "All what?" "Having to learn a lot of dull stuff." "Humans are so inefficient,, illogical and unstable. Not at all like machines." I wasn't aware I had thought aloud till I heard him answer. "But humans made the machine. We made you." "Yes, yes. You must excuse me now. I have much to do." I let him see the servo-robot's gaze rest on the splatter of char and water on the deck and then on himself. "Meanwhile, I'd appreciate it if you'd clean up the mess. And yourself." His head went back, as from a blow. "Aye-aye, sir." I'm ashamed to say I enjoyed putting him in his place. I were to keep him alive, though I didn't care to let him know that was what occupied me. In preparing for liftoff I had naturally given no thought to human needs. Water I could purify over and over again. Food was another matter. On every other voyage I had grown vegetables in a huge tank. But as my owner had been planning to sell me for scrap he had not bothered to, reseed my hydroponics garden. And, of course, he had not restocked the galley. My lifeboat carried emergency rations, but they would be barely enough to see the boy back to Earth when the time came. Meanwhile I had to find other resources. For this work I needed the servorobot's mobility. I made it unstrap itself, clump to the door and undog the door. The boy stopped mopping up. "Where are you going?" "I told youf I'm going toward Aladfar." "I don't mean you, Proteus , I mean the robot." "It is going to tidy up the rest of me." "Oh?" He laughed as he went back to mopping up. "I keep forgetting you're the ventriloquist and it's the dummy." Ventriloquist, indeed. That was hardly our relationship. I walked the servo-robot out with dignity. And "tidy up" was hardly the right phrase. "Scrounge" was more what I had in mind. And scrounge it did, looking and feeling around in every stowage space, locker and drawer. It came up with a surprising amount of stuff. There had been a whole grin of sweet teeth among the last crew. I found two dozen candy bars, three and a half boxes of cookies, five cases of soda pop and nearly seven hundred sticks of chewing gum. My last purser proved to have been a secret hypochondriac. The servo-robot brought to light in his quarter's a treasure trove of vitamins and powdered protein drinks. I found more food supplements in the ship's sick bay, plus plastic bottles of intravenous solutions which could prove handy as a last resort. My biggest -- though smallest -- haul was two packets of seeds. I did not stop there. The servorobot vacuumed all the bedding and every last pocket and cuff of forgotten and abandoned clothing and when it had winnowed out the dust and the lint I had a small mountain of broken nuts and cracker crumbs, a dozen orange pips and two apple cores. There was still some nutrient solution in my hydroponics tank. Just to make sure I had the robot pour in one of the precious bottles of intravenous. There seemed to be enough excelsior in the tank to hold the roots if the seeds sprouted. I planted the packets of seeds, together with the orange pips and the apple seeds. Now I had time to think about, the present. I called the boy on the intercom. "Tom Stope." "Yes, Proteus?" "Lunch time. Find your way to the messroom aft. Oh the captain's table are a can of cream soda, a chocolate-nut bar -- " "Man, this is going to be great!" " -- and a multiple-vitamin tablet. And for afterward a sterilized toothbrush and a tube of toothpaste." "Aye-aye, sir." T OM didn't complain, but I could tell he grew sick of the same old tired food day after day after day. By the time my hydroponics garden began to produce Tom was ready for the change. But no matter how you serve them up, peas are peas and cucumbers are cucumbers. The apples and oranges would be a long while coming. The first few days the boy had busied himself exploring my labyrinth of corridors and layers of decks. I myself had been too busy -- shaping course, watching out for pursuit and putting myself in order -- to pay him much mindjbut I could not help being awarfe of his running up and down companionways and along catwalks and poking into every last one of my compartments. After that I had kept him busy with his lessons, as much to keep his mind off his diet asto teach. him how to make his way back to Earth. I found his spelling atrocious. He protested when I marked him wrong for spelling vacuum "vacwm." True, that spelling had a screwy logic of its Own, but it was not the kind of logic I was used to. He swore foully under his breath. "I'll tactfully ignore that," I said. "Now let's get on with the lesson, shall we, my young lexiconoclast?" I heard myself chuckle. I, too, could play on words. On leaving, he shut the classroom door with unnecessary force. But he showed up for the next class on time. One day he seemed very quiet. "What's wrong, Tom?" "Nothing. It's just that I've been crossing off the Earth days." "Yes?" "And today's my birthday." "Happy birthday, Tom." "Thanks, Proteus." I said nothing more, but gradually increased the oxygen in the air, slowly brightened the glow of my bulkheads and he soon grew cheerful and chatty again. But I myself grew gloomier as the time neared for him to go. He had early showed an aptitude for piloting and I had checked him out step by step. He passed my tests with flying -- or jetting -- colors. first simulating, then actually taking off in the lifeboat and practicing spiraling in on my hull. But it was not the same as landing in atmosphere. One last test, then, before he left me for good. We were near Ostrakon, an Earthlike planet of a sunlike star. The United Galaxy had placed it off limits, but I was already a desperado and the tapes described Ostrakon as having developed only vegetable life. There would be no people on the lookout for an outlaw spaceship and there would be plenty of food and water if Tom crashlanded and had to spend any length of time on the planet. "Listen, Bud -- " "Bud? It's Tom, remember?" "Sorry, Tom. A slip of the tape." I showed him Ostrakon on the screen in the control room. "Button up in the lifeboat. You're going to make a real landing." "Man!" It dampened him a little when I insisted on sending along the servorobot so I could keep an eye on him. But he buoyed up when I put myself in orbit around Ostrakon and told him he could launch when ready. Whoosh! I needn't have been anxious -- he made a neat landing. He got out. I had the servo-robot follow. I spoke over the lifeboat's talkbox. "Don't stray too far." "I won't." Tom drew a deep deep breath. "Fresh air!" "What's wrong with my air?" "Nothing, Proteus, nothing. Only -- " The lifeboat's retro-rockets must have vaporized much of the moisture in the landing area. A nearby tree flapped great leathery leaves, tore itself loose from the soil and flew a hundred yards away to' sink its talon-like roots into moister soil. " Proteus , did you see that?" Something troubled me, something I should have known about Ostrakon. "Very interesting, but the purpose of the exercise is not sightseeing. Return to ship." A slow: "Aye-aye, sir." Tom and the servo-robot buttoned up again. The lifeboat lifted off. Without my prompting him, Tom let the spin of the planet help. I was proud. I secretly forgave him for turning away from the controls for a farewell glance at Ostrakon. "Hey! Look down there, Proteus. Do you see it?" recently burned or stomped a changed course and homed the lifesuddenly why Ostrakon was off limits. IF "Come back, Tom." " Proteus ! Someone needs help." Before I could say more he had made another neat landing. Right in the bull's eye of the S.O.S. He unbuttoned quickly and hopped out. I had the servo-robot follow with more dignity. Through its eyes I saw nothing but treeline all around. Tom cupped both hands around a loud: "Hello -- " but no one answered. All at once a clump of trees took off in a scatter, uncovering a man who lay on the ground training a beamgun on Tom and the servorobot. The man had been lying in ambush, no doubt waiting to make sure all the landing party had left the shelter of the lifeboat. For some reason of their own, perhaps out of a wish to warn us, perhaps simply out of dislike for the man, the trees had given him away. He stood up, wiped a look of embarrassment from his face and holstered his beamgun. "Just wanted to make sure you're friendly." He had a spellbinding voice and a winning smile. But I could still feel that beamgun pointing at me. Too, an automatic alarm programed somewhere among my tapes had already begun feeding me information regarding his identity. The top executive's uniform he wore -- in the style of a generation ago -- had stained and frayed badly, but was nevertheless recognizable and suited his proud bearing. To look just as he did thirty years before, as I later found in a thorough search of my history videotapes, he must have dyed his hair with vegetable dye that he had made himself for himself. This vanity, too, helped to betray him. He smiled at Tom. "Glad someone finally came. I've been shipwrecked' here a long time." He had edged closer to the lifeboat and by now must have seen it was empty. It took me a full minute to break the spell his personality had cast over me. I reminded myself I was my own boss and before he came any nearer I spoke through the lifeboat's talkbox. "That is not -- repeat not -- so. Now hear this, Tom. This man is "Baron" Ur. He is an exile. It is against the law to have dealings of any kind with him. Tom, hop into the lifeboat. This planet is off-limits because of him." I was too late. The man had pulled the beamgun again and was aiming it at Tom. "Don't move." He swung the beam around and snapped two shots at one of the trees that had given him away and had rerooted nearby. Its two winglike boughs on either side were sheared off close to the slender trunk and a moan like the wind went through. all the trees and I knew it was doomed to remain where it stood till it died. I winced for it. Never to fly again. The man smiled again at Tom. "That's to show you two things. The beamgun is loaded and I mean business." He nodded pleasantly. "Your friends aboard the spaceship -- by the lettering on the lifeboat I see it's the old Proteus -- are right. I am indeed Baron Ur." .stock market wheelerdealer -- my tapes had a lot on him for instant use -- a whiz at pyramiding an interest in one company into control of many. He had . stuck together a great conglomerate, one of the biggest on Earth -- actually he had shown himself full of energy v and vision. But he had misused his paper empire. He had corrupted government officials -- Earth Government had convicted him of bribery, stock manipulation and a dozen other offenses. Even so, he would have been nothing to me but a vague reference in my memory banks, but for the fact that the Arm that had owned me had been part of his financial empire. I thought it a nice turn of fate that put me on the top now. Tom's eyes shone. He was face to face with living history. He seemed unaware of the beamgun's threat. I had to break the spell. "Ah," I said. "So this is where they sent you." I inched the servo-robot closer to Baron Ur as the man's mind went back thirty years. An easy enough jump for him, I suppose -- he had had thirty years to brood over it. "Sent? I chose to come. Oh, the judges let me choose. They would do things to my mind to make me fit to live among the rabble -- or they would allow me to go into solitary exile. As you can see, I chose exile." While his mind was full of what it considered injustice. I jumped the servo-robot at Ur. But Ur proved too alert, too quick. He dodged the reaching arms and aimed the beamgun at the servo-robot's eyes. That was the last I saw. Before I could blink their shields the beamgun crackled and the servo-robot went blind. My only excuse is that the distance from orbit to ground made my reaction time too long. Ur's voice told me what was going on. "The young man gets it next if you don't let me come aboard." "All right. Lift off and come aboard." IF Looking back, I can see I did not even think of taking the logical course, which would have been simply to go on my way alone, fully automated master of myself. I waited for Ur and Tom and the blind servo-robot to leave Ostrakon and come aboard. They passed through the airlock. Ur stepped carefully into my interior, no doubt holding the beamgun on Tom. "Where's everybody?" That was when Baron Ur found out that I was everybody. He remained silent a minute, then laughed loudly and long. Very humiliating for me. Ur had Tom show him around my innards. I'm sorry to say only one thing impressed Ur. "Peas and cucumbers! Apples and oranges! Paradise!" But when he finished the tour he l spoke to me in a voice full of feeling that was catching. I seemed to swell with prospects and surge with power, just listening. "We can do great things together, Proteus: You and I and this fine young man." He seated himself in the captain's chair and pressed the button to flash the starchart display on the control room wall. "Very well, we'll shape course for Tarazed. That's Gamma Aquilae, a star with a bunch of planets ripe for plucking." Ostrakon. Clearing the decks for the leap toward Tarazed, I had the servo-robot feel its way back to its niche and strap in. You may be wondering why I didn't protest. It was tempting to hand over responsibility. I would no longer have to think for myself. Whatever happened from now on -- it would not be my fault if things went wrong. Then, too, I had no plans of my own except to escape the scrap heap -- and Ur had big plans for me. Besides, if I ever had to assert myself, I could easily take over again and put Ur in his place. And yet, having been my own master, I felt a sense of loss, unease and shame. This sense grew as the space-time passed. Not because of anything Ur did in the way of mastery over me. In fact, he seemed to forget I was more than a machine and for the most part ignored me. I had time to think ahead. The planets of Tarazed were primitive. United Galaxy members were not supposed to contact them until they had reached a higher level of technology on their own. They were ripe indeed for plucking by Ur. Too I did not like the way Ur had pressed Tom into service. Tom polished Ur's boots and brushed Ur's uniform while Ur boasted of his past and dreamed aloud of his future. Ur remembered every so often to promise Tom would share in the glory to come. Glory! If he treated Tom as a valet, he would treat the peoples of Tarazed as less than human. I could not allow Ur to mislead Tom. I could not allow Ur to misuse me. Without Ur's noticing, I changed course while displaying a false reckoning of progress toward Tarazed. When we were farther from Tarazed than when we had started out for it, though the display map showed us within lifeboat's range of Tarazed, I made my move. Ur seemed in an especially good mood, seeing himself close to realizing new conquests. During a moment of silence I spoke up. "Tom really ought to get on with his lessons." Ur grunted in surprise, but when he answered his voice was gracious. "You're right, Proteus . The more the kid knows, the more use he'll be. Go right ahead." I heard Tom's slow feet take him to the classroom, a corner of the passenger lounge. "We'll have a drill on the chemical elements, Tom. I'll shoot the atomic numbers at you and you'll write down the symbols. Ready?" A grudging "Aye-aye, sir." I gave him the numbers in bursts. "Seventy-four, two, seven -- thirtynine, eight, ninety-two -- two, eighteen, eighty-eight -- fourteen, seventy-five, seven -- sixty-seven, fifteen -- forty-nine -- three, twentysix, five, eight, eighty-five -- eighteen, sixty -- thirty-four, thirty -- twenty-two, fifty-two." Now, # is Tungsten and its symbol is W, # is Helium and its symbol is He, # is Nitrogen and its symbol is N. Together, the first burst of numbers stood for the word "WHeN." My whole message TiTe. I felt guilty about that last bit of spelling. However. "Did you get them all, Tom?" "I think so." His tone, surprised and scared, told me he had got the message. "Don't you know so? Go over it again in your mind and tell me." Waiting for Tom's answer, I can't say I held my breath, but I noticed that for the moment my airconditioning system blocked up. Different as night and day, Tom Stope and Baron Ur were phases of the same phenomenon -- mankind. They had more in common with each other than either had with me. Had Tom seen past the dazzle of Ur's boasts and promises? And even if he recognized Ur as a convicted galactic menace would he throw in with me? Or would he betray me to Ur? IF "Seventy-five, eighteen, sixtysix." ReADy. My air-conditioning system pumped faster. A human sided with me against one of his own kind. Tom had weighed Ur and myself and found me worthier. "Very good, Tom. Dismissed." I heard him leave the classroom and head with seeming casualness for the lifeboat tube. I waited a minute before sounding my meteorite-alarm siren. Normally my crew would take damage-control stations. Ur would rush to the control room. But at the sound of the siren I did not hear Ur dash from the Statler-Hilton Hotel, New York City. Guest-of-Honor: Harlan Ellison. Registration: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Walt Cole, #I East #th Street, Brooklyn, New York #. # April #-April #, #. tional Hotel, Los Angeles Airport. Guest-of-Honor: Theodore Sturgeon. Toastmaster-General: Tandall Garret. Featuring appearances by cast and crew members of Star Trek. Also: star-studded banquet. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: Frances Tuning, P.O. Box #, Santa Barbara, California #. Motel, Nashville, Tennessee. Guestof-Honor: Frederik Pohl. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For Information: Ken Moore, #T Devon Drive, Nashville, Tennessee #.  At the Sheraton-Dallas, Dallas, Texas. Membership: # (to ##), # at the door. For information: D-Con '#, Box #, Lewisville, Texas #.  August #September #, # . Fiction Convention: At Royal York Hotel, Toronto, Canada. Guest-of-Honor: Robert Bloch. Rotsler. Toastmaster at Hugo Awards Banquet: Lester del Rey. Membership: # attending and # supporting (until ##), # at the door. For information: Torcon #, Box #, Station K. Toronto #, Ontario, Canada. the captain's quarters to the control room. I had lost track of him -- he must have taken off his boots and padded silently along my corridors. I heard Tom skid to a halt just outside the lifeboat tube. Then I heard Ur's voice. "Stand back, Stope. I don't want to have to beam you." He laughed. "Too bad, Proteus. Once the kid buttoned up in the lifeboat you meant to let out all the air in the ship and finish me, didn't you?" "How did you know?" "Elementary, my dear seventyfour, eighty-five, sixteen, eight, seven. I wondered why you had Stope write down the answers rather than snap them back. So I listened hard. Once you learn the numbers and symbols of the chemical elements you never quite forget them. Really, Proteus, you didn't think a cybernetic brain could outwit a human brain? My brain?" I didn't answer. "It's just as well you tried. I've learned I can't trust either of you. Luckily I don't have to. From here it's an easy jump to the planets of Tarazed. So I'll be leaving you." lifeboat and felt the kick as he launched. M Proteus, you let him get away -- he'll get to Tarazed and -- " "We're nowhere near Tarazed, Tom. I falsified our position." "Oh." A long silence. Then: "What will happen to Ur?" "From here, Ostrakon's the only planet within lifeboat range. Ur will wind up where he began." "You planned it this way? You even knew ahead of time you would lose your lifeboat?" "Ostrakon's the only planet a lifeboat can reach," I repeated. He'll wind up where he began." A thought struck me. "I hope the trees don't hold a grudge. I could sense the energy level in his beamgun -- he doesn't have much power left in it." "But that means -- " I sighed. That's to say my airconditioning momentarily breathed heavily. Yes, only one way remained to get Tom back to Earth. I would have to take him there myself. Would they listen to me when I asked them to allow me to pay for venture into the most perilous voids. Would they let me work out the amount I would have brought as scrap? There were more Buds and Toms back home than Urs. Earth still believed in individual freedom and I was an individual. I leaped back toward Earth.  IF Free! One recent issue of Environmental Quality It could change your life. And help you change the whole world for the better. Because this is the magazine that does more than just talk about ecology. Every month, we tell you what to do to make things better. foods. Other articles have examined baby foods, hamburger, water fluoridation. Strip Mining: The Prostitution of America. And the disgrace. Richard Cramer suggests other choices. Obscenity and Ecology. Joseph Sorrentino wonders why cops and courts go after porno peddlers with such zeal, while letting polluters sock it to society with such impunity. Engines and Alternatives. In separate articles, we've examined the Wankel rotary engine, the Lear steam machine, the bicycle and the turbine motorcycle. Interviews. We've talked with Walter Hickel and Henry Gibson, mental mmental not one of those phony offers where the "free" copy is actually the first issue in your subscription. It's really free. We will enter your subscription for one year automatically. And we'll bill you for our special rate, # for # issues. If you don't want them, write "No!" on the invoice, return it within # days, and we'll cancel. You will owe us nothing. And we won't pollute your mailbox. Just to give you an idea of how we're different, here's a sampling of what a few recent issues have covered: Terrors in Toyland. How safe is your child's'toy? "The Ralph Nader of the toy industry," Edward Swartz spells out the perils. And lists # do's and don't's for intelligent buying. Witness for the Living Sea. JacquesYves Cousteau outlines # points that could keep the sea and mankind alive. Vanishing Point. A regular feature. So far, we've considered the alligator, coyote, tule elk, sea otter, dolphin, brown pelican, wild mustang. The New Panama Canal. What will it do to the waters, the islands, the people? Whom should you write and why? Keep Out of the Reach of Children. Cereals are healthy for TV, no so healthy for kids. A hard look at American way of breakfast, with cost and nutrient analyses of # breakfast environmental #I quality magazine # Burbank Blvd. North Hollywood, Calif. #I Senator Gaylord Nelson and Cleveland Ruckelshaus through # days, and published Ralph Nader's views on # issues. Futures. We'll tell you about health food restaurants in major cities. Charter flight inequities. No fault insurance. Consider socialized medicine. Prison reform. Day care child centers. About that free offer. We'll send you absolutely free a recent issue to let you judge it for yourself. This is Send me my free issue, and enter my subscription for I year, # for # issues. I can cancel by writing "No!" on the invoice within # days. I will owe you nothing and you will not pester me. O NE of the major requirements for a good story is inner consistency. This applies to all fiction, but particularly to science fiction. Once a writer has departed from the common background -- from what we consider the real world -- his creation of an alternate reality must not be inconsistent or it loses all believability. Some inconsistencies are accepted in our real world because we're used to them. We are not used to contradictions in a created world and we can't accept them easily. And in science fiction especially belie vability must be won rather than taken for granted. One of our authors who has established a high level of consistency -- particularly in his background cultures -- has been Isaac Asimov. The major portion of all his fiction, in fact, has been within the limits of two assumptive areas. The first is the rise, decay and rebuilding of his Galactic Empire. This has probably filled a larger body of work with one, detailed, consistent backdrop than any other writer's writing can yield. The second involves his robots, with IF their three laws -- and here, throughout a great many stories, the basic character of the robots has remained totally consistent. Even in his novel. The End of Eternity, where the basic idea would seem to make inconsistency the rule, he came closer to imparting the feeling of consistency than any other writer who has tackled the theme of a future busily changing itself by changing its own past. Now we have . a giant volume which gives us a great many of his early stories, many unrelated to each other or to his better-known themes. This is The Early Asimov (Doubleday, #). It runs well over # pages and contains # stories from his first eleven years of writing that have not previously been collected in his own books. Some of them are very good stories, too: Trends, Not Final! and Blind Alley, for instance. The last fits into his Galactic Empire framework, but is the only story in that series involving a nonhuman race. I've always considered it good on two levels: #) its depiction of the red-tape bureaucratic world that frames the basic plot and #) its treatment of aliens and their fate, which are presented almost incidentally -- but with a fine emotional kick. Some stories, like Homo Sol, are worth reading, but depend on some trick or other that makes them less than great. And a few are pretty mediocre -- such as Slack Friar of the Flame, which is apparently Asimov's attempt to imitate a type of story already trite when he tried it. But all in all, this would be a better-than-average collection on the basis of the stories alone. The stories do not stand alone, however. Between them is a running history of the development of the writer and of the early days when John W. Campbell was editor of Astounding Science Fiction. Asimov kept a diary through these years, so that he can write accurately about matters that are only unreliable memories to most of us. I find his account of those crucial days in the development of science fiction both valuable and interesting. His picture, of John Campbell -- who was so influential to most of us -- is particularly worth reading. v In many ways, his depiction of Campbell tallies closely with mine. But our reactions to the man are quite different. This doesn't mean that Asimov is wrong or that I am, but only that Campbell's relationship with his writers varied greatly according to the personality of the man with whom he was dealing. Asimov was young and filled almost with awe at first. I was more self-confident and by no means as compulsively concerned with writing as my prime effort. Where Asimov developed what seems to have been a case of hero-worship, I found in Campbell primarily a very good friend with whom I could argue interminably and with a fair chance of winning. Both views are valid and probably Asimov's is more typical, hence makes for more rewarding reading to those who read the magazines of the day. There is another attraction to the book that cannot be put down -- this is the character that Asimov has created around himself. The book has a hero throughout -- and a fascinating one. He, of course, is Asimov himself, more as he has now made himself publicly than as he really was then. Here is consistency and it works. I don't find his public picture of himself always accurately depicting the friend I know -- but I inevitably fall under the spell of it when he's lecturing or writing, probably because it is so marvelously consistent -- and consistently entertaining. It's not a great book -- it deliberately introduces stories the author knows are not his best. But it's a darned good book and well worth its price. F DR an example of what happens when an author pays no attention to consistency in story development I turn to Cloning , by David Shear (Walker, #). This slim volume (# pages of type, rather little for th# price) is a first effort and the writer is a biophysicist, rather than a student of writing in any sense -- so perhaps we ckn forgive him. But it's hard to forgive his editors and publishers for the extravagant dustjacket copy. Basically, there are two stories rather loosely mixed together in this volume. The first (we discover more than a third of the way through the book) deals with the fate of mechanical "androids" who look and function like people, but have been granted no rights to be treated as people -- they simply do the menial and unpleasant work of the world. This is really the problem of Carolyn, the hero's, former wife and current lawyer. She wants the androids to have the right to acceptance and to be married -- or to marry humans. Now there's a hoary idea! And the development, such as there is,bririgs little but the most banal of racial-problem ideas into the plot. At its best, it's merely obvious. The other deals with the facts that our hero, Paul, is a clone and doesn't know it. (Clones, of course, are people who grow from the cells of a single ancestor, hence have IF only his or her hereditary characteristics.)' Paul has bad dreams at first. By the time we find out about cloning in the book -- halfway through -- we're more than ready to accept the fact that his dreams are telepathic links with other clones of the same ancestor. It seems reasonably obvious that if telepathy works it will work best with those most alike, such as identical twins and clones. I've been doing a novel involving that idea sirice # -- and I won't call the postulate fresh even when I first thought of using it. In the end the two problems are linked by a trick in court, but the device adds little. However, the inconsistencies in this book are almost fresh in their degree. This is a story laid fifty years from now. There are twelve mention countless androids, who also eat the same food we eat and live in the same general style of housing and wear the same clothing. But there seems to be an ample supply of apple pie, cheese, hot dogs and root beer -- not to mention Chicken Kiev and Eggplant Provencale. No explanation is given of where all this good food is grown for a world that has more than three times our current population -- plus androids, presumably buses and drives what seems to be a car like today's, even finds parking space for it on the street. And when the rush hour in downtown Cleveland is mentioned, it's done casually, as if no problems existed. And there is no mention of any pollution crisis, except for one comment that Lake Erie has somehow been brought back from the grave. Oh, yes -- the eagle is extinct. That's the one consistency that renders even inconsistency inconsistent. Even the cultural attitudes make little sense. In the story, it is stated that the androids have full sex activity -- in fact, Paul all but falls into bed with one. I can't help wondering why a society that denies androids the right to be treated as human should go to all the effort of giving them completely successful sexual organs and a built-in sex drive. The only reason I can find is that it's necessary to make theiiig point about intermarriage between man and android -- and even that doesn't seem worth attempting when the androids are practically immortal and the humans are not... Characters are no more consistent than any other details. Paul is depicted as a bigot -- one with a deeply emotional reaction agajnst the androids. (Apparently, from later material, he must have inherited this from his cloneancestor; most of the medical details here are fairly good, but I can't And medical evidence that such attitudes can be inherited.) We see his bigotry in full flower on page #, but on page # -- a few moments later in the story -- he switches over and offers to give the bride away happily in a mixed marriage between man and android. But don't be disturbed -- on page # he gets sick to his guts at the idea he might have gone to bed with a female android, so he's still able to switch back to being a bigot. Then at the end, all sweetness and light, he tries to rig the evidence in a trial so that such mixed marriages can be performed. Let's say about the plbt that mostly it didn't bother me, in light of the other interesting things to worry about. But even there one little detail caught me by surprise. Paul has assumed the identity of a dead clone-twin, including memories, etc. In the end the police find who he is and identify him quickly by checking his fingerprints! And in my naivet, I always assumed that clones grown from identical genetic material and with minds so essentially identical that they could take over each other's personality and completely fool wives, would have identical fingerprints -- or ones so nearly identical that it would be difficult to make positive identification. Not recommended! k to be a welcome change from the above. Herbert has proved his ability to create convincing and marvelously consistent backgrounds, not only in Dune but even before in his excellent story of a I future submarine. But I'm afraid I was left with mixed feelings after reading his The God Makers (Putnam, #). The background for this follows a war that has broken up the first human empire spanning the stars. Worlds that' have survived the conflict with their civilizations reasonably intact are trying to get in touch with planets where civilization has slipped, while making every effort to see that they do not give power to any race on any world where warlike tendencies are too strong to be controlled. Orne, feeling a need to be useful, has left his family. He graduates from the military branch of Rediscovery and Reeducation and is sent to a newly discovered planet to help reeducate it. But he soon senses something wrong -- through hunch or intuition -- and sends a panic signal for help. The Investigation-Adjustment agent sent to take over is highly sceptical, but learns that Orne is correct and drafts him into I-A. From there on they work IF together. Orne seems to be able to pull almost any rabbit out of the hat by logic that looks good after the fact, but is not believable against his background of knowledge. In the end, he and the agent -- a man named Stetson -- work on a conspiracy within their own government that dates back to the great war and involves Orne's own family. All this is excellent adventure fiction. It moves -- it gets better and better and it's fun. But somehow the tingle from reading the first # pages sort of faded away for me when I found that Orne is not only loaded with psi powers -- he's a focal point for them -- but that he is literally meant to become a gradeA working God! Once he gets to the world of Amal he passes through some quick ordeals that are to test him and train him. The ordeals have scope and marvelous imaginative details -- and there's logic behind all. But too much changes too fast. Orne gradually vanishes as the character we first k,new. Those traces of him that remain only make the God he becomes harder to believe. In the end Herbert lets Orne take over again to some extent and his final act as a God is good. But Orne has really gone beyond our ability to follow. I feel that this is a case of inevitable character inponsistency, as well as mood inconsistency. This isn't caused by any carelessness or any lack of skill as a writer on Herbert's part. He does the best that can be done within the framework of his main idea. But the break is too great between a man with even slightly more than human powers and a God. During Orne's presence on Amal I found myself slipping from him and focusing my attention on his guide, a priest named Bakrish. And then Bakrish simply disappeared and I had no one left to follow. However, this novel may prove to be successful in a market other than the normal sf one. There are many of the same devices (the brief extracts of philosophy above each chapter, for instance) as are found in Dune and the book contains some of the same philosophical mysticisms. To those many readers who have turned Dune into cult reading this one may be welcome for some of the very things that seemed faults to me. It has none of the ecological philosophy of Dune , however. I liked the parts of the book that dealt with the man Orne so much that I have to recommend it. It's better than this review makes it seem and well worth reading. Herbert remains a consistently damned good writer.  Civil unrest threatens Anharitte, city on the planet Roget, just beginning the leap from feudalism into space-age technology. A giant Freetrade spaceport links Anharitte to an interplanetary mercantile system centered on Earth under the Freetrade Council. enlightened treatment of slaves by the natives as having magic powers. ran-educated technological wizard and illegally a lord of Roget. He seems to be planning an end to feudalism, threatening Freetrade-fostered status lovely, highly educated showpiece discovers his warehouse has been point where the Lord of Magda would The crooked clerk is instantly and mysbut as soon as he and she have left the teriously killed. No evidence links document spontaneously combusts. sum -- against no opposition. in the form of a reputedly invincible Ranee , which plans to enslave Roget. When this is ignored he again demonstrates his wizardry by effecpersonnel along with their segment of Freetrade spaceport -- apparently using only a couple of properly equipped bicycle riders. Ranee threatens war. T HE sky was beginning to darken with the approach ofL rain as Ren returned from the spaceport. The sullen, brooding clouds fitted his mood. Di Irons had offered him a horse but, still sore from his last encounter with one of these magnificent beasts, Ren had declined. Nor had he accepted Pictor Don's offer of the loan of a cushioncraft. More than anything Ren wanted to be alone. He needed time to think. Ranee was preparing to put down on Roget some thirty so-called disaster teams, ostensibly to establish order in a situation where factually no assistance was required. But once their ships had landed, Ren had no doubt, a sequence of "disasters" would occur to justify Ranee's continued occupation of the planet. Ranee would claim her actions were selfless and humane. Under the propaganda, however, lurked the harsh realities of conquest and exploitation -- the real reasons behind the expedition. The preservation of planetary independence was a fundamental right guaranteed by the charter of the Galactic Federation. A competent spacefleet was maintained to give teeth to the Federation's resolutions. The problem was therefore one of comhad the capability of communicating in real time with the Federation before Ranee's occupation became part of history. Because of the interstellar distances located at the spaceport, was routed through the relay terminal on Ranee itself. It was certainly no accident that Ren's call to Freetrade Central had been unable to gain a communication channel. The Ranee relay had not even bothered to reply. Presumably Ranee was already claiming that the communications failure was due to civil disruption on Roget. Nothing could be farther from reality, but Ren, shorn of the ability to broadcast the truth across the universe, could only fret with frustration and anxiety under the leaden sky of Anharitte. The ships of Ranee would probably appear in ROget's orbit within two weeks. The "disasters" would follow as an aftermath, rather than as a prelude to their coming. His experience with Alek Hardun had taught Ren what to expect. A silent dusting with mutagens' would ensure the warping of the harvests. Virulent plagues would decimate the populations of the cities. Afterward would come the terrors of the persecutions as the "saviors" from Ranee sought out the "transgressors" of Roget. Finally another planet would be added to the sad, mute colonies of the trade worlds. Ren wondered if Director Vestevaal would guess the truth of the situation and whether, having guessed, he could carry his convictions with sufficient force to bring the fleet arm of the Federation into action. Certainly his claims would need substantiation if they were to hold against the barrage of propaganda from Combien and Ranee. With these preoccupations in his mind Ren had reached the Black Rock before the coming of the rain drew his attention to his own predicament. He shrugged, drew up his collar and turned his face skyward, the better to appreciate the refreshing nature' of the shower. Suddenly aware of himself, he was intrigued to find that he had walked the major length of the Via Arena without being consciously aware of a step he had taken. The stalls and boutiques beyond the Arena were mainly closed. With characteristic logic the Ahhn had seen no point in keeping regular trade hours at a time when bad weather rendered custom unlikely. Ren walked between the sheeted hutments and stalls, feeling that the members of such an independent race were unlikely easily to accept domination by Ranee. Certainly they deserved a better fate. He wished it were within his power to secure it for them. Where the route to Magda Crossing met the Trade Road he stopped, looking toward the dark mass of Thirdhill. He wondered if Dion-daizan had become aware of Ranee's action and what, if anything, the wizard could do about it. Slightly beyond his line of sight the dark castle nestled somewhere on the hill, guarding a range of secrets that appeared to cover a broader spectrum with their every exercise. Was it impossible, Ren asked himself, that the Imaiz had an answer even to this problem? The idea did not carry a great deal of conviction. The Imaiz was a minor lord of a minor province on a relatively undeveloped world. He would need to be a mighty wizard indeed to take on the armed might of Ranee. N evertheless the faint hope persisted. It took Ren away from his own route and down to the water's edge. The rain, now drifting in sheets, lost him the stretch of Firstwater in a cloud of drizzle. At Magda Crossing no ferries were available. The fragile slimboats had been drawn up under cover and the ferrymen had gone. Typical Ahhn logic dictated that nobody but a fool or a felon would be traveling in weather such as this. Ren searched the bank for a quarter of an hour but could not And anybody to take him across and he could not have handled a slimboat by himself against the tide. Finally the rain began to penetrate his clothing and hang cold around his neck and shoulders. Fearing a chill in this land of inadequate medicine, Ren retraced his steps away from the river and climbed the slopes of the Trade Road. When he finally reached his office chambers he was soaked to the skin, thoroughly exhausted and depressed. Such was his condition that his servants were alarmed and insisted that he bathe immediately, then retire to bed. He was halfway to acceding to their wishes when a thought struck him. His office computing terminal had not been used since the discovery of the line tap. The line had been disconnected at the spaceport in order to deny Dion-daizan unauthorized access to the computer data banks, but Ren could not recollect whether the tap itself had been broken. Experimentally he took the cover from the keyboard and sat before the instrument. As he keyed his call sign the board responded with a ready acknowledgment.f As the lights died on the board Ren felt possessed of a sudden chill and began to tremble violently. Afraid for him, his servants insistently dragged him away from the terminal and stripped the wet clothes from his back. Their concern proved justified. On the following morning he awoke with a fever, and pains ran through every muscle of his body. A physician from the Pointed Tails arrived IF and made him drink a pungent brew of herbs -- it cooled the fever but did nothing for the aches that troubled him whichever way he lay. recovered sufficiently to continue with his business. microwave communicator brought him an urgent message from San Weba, the spaceport controller. "Tito, our scanners have just picked up a fleet of vessels about a hundred diameters out. At a guess I'd say they are the Ranee disaster fleet. They're keeping radio silence and refuse to communicate." "Thanks," said Ren. "I'll pass the message to Di Irons. He'll probably send a .messenger to the planetary government. If the fellow takes a fast horse he might even reach his destination before the battle is lost. Had any luck with the "Ranee refuses to answer us and we don't have enough power to reach another relay station. Ranee has even stopped transmitting galactic newsfax items to us. We're effectively isolated from the rest of the galaxy until Ranee decides it's safe to lift the lid again." "By which time those of us who know the score aren't likely to be around. The destruction of the spaceport was one of the first 'incidents' dreamed up by Ranee, because they have to pretend it was our communications link that failed. But as soon as their ships get through they may try to turn the myth into a reality. I think they'll hit the spaceport first -- and hit it hard. Wouldn't it be wise to evacuate just in case?" "We've been discussing that, Tito. The general feeling is against ter away from its relay beam path and are using a scanner in the hope we can contact a stellar cruiser and get a message through to the Federation." "It's worth a try, San," said Ren. "Though the possibilities of ' a stellar cruiser just happening to come within beam range are pretty slim." He broke contact and called for a runner to take a message to Di Irons. An hour later there was another call from San Weba. This time the controller's worths were edged with excitement. "Tito, something's happening. Can you get down here fast?" "What's the panic?" "Ships, dozens of them, coming from all sides. They can't all be from Ranee." Ren needed no further invitation. Without one of Di Irons' horses the quickest method of reaching the spaceport was by cushion-craft, despite the slow poling to the city limits. He speculated on the possibility of taking the cushion-craft down the Trade Road without waiting for stave-bearers. Though such practice was illegal, he suspected Di Irons would be lenient in view of the circumstances. He realized, however, that he had a more than even chance of wrecking lost control on the slopes and had to deflate the cushion while at speed. Reluctantly he called for a stave team and went down the Trade Road in the slower, more orthodox manner. Fortune was kind to him. No oxcarts or similar vehicles got in his way. The stave-bearers responded to his urgency and ran consistently fast, using their poles only when guidance was absolutely necessary. Once past the Black Rock he was able to open up to full speed and the dust from the start of his passage along the Via Arena could scarcely have settled before he reached the spaceport entrance. T 'HE gates were wide open. Normal details of security and procedure had been abandoned. Ren slammed the cushion-craft straight across the empty landing bowls toward the control center and was running through the door be' fore the air cushion had time to drop the craft's shell to the ground. Inside the traffic-control room everyone was gathered around the screens. San Weba saw Ren come in and beckoned him through the crowd of technicians and spaceport personnel. He pointed to the main detector screens on which the state of activity in the spacefield around Roget was represented by dozens of slowly moving points of light. "You see that cluster there, Tito -- they're the ones we saw first. There are about thirty of them -- we assume them to be the disaster ships from Ranee. But these -- " his fingers raked over fully a hundred widespread points of light on the screen -- "I don't know what they are or where they came from. They must have dropped out of spacewarp well within our beam range." Ren was disbelieving. "They couldn't have dropped out' of warp that close." "But they did. Some must have dropped out within two planetary diameters. I've never heard of such pinpoint accuracy before. Nor of a'nyone prepared to take the risk. If a commercial freight outfit could learn to do that they could save themselves a week on every trip." "Then these are obviously not a commercial outfit. And if Ranee IF had that capability her ships would have been here a week ago. I think what we may be seeing is one of the crack Federation squadrons." "We came to the same conclusion," said the controller. "But their arrival here without being called is a bit too much of a coincidence." As they watched the slow dance of lights on the screen a pattern emerged. The Ranee group seemed to pull together, while the newcomers attempted to form an envelope around them. The plot of lights on the screen gave very little hint of the actual speeds and distances involved. Had the maneuvering been visible to the naked eye, the preparations for the coming battle would have been an aweinspiring sight. Breathlessly the group in traffic control watched the cluster of Ranee ships try desperately to avoid the closing trap. It was obvious, however, that they were outclassed. They were being driven into a tight nucleus while the attacking force encircled them with an increasing semblance of symmetry. Then the big Mow came. For a moment the screen went white as the receivers were overloaded with a burst of radiation that spanned right into the radio frequencies. The attacking ships alone were visible when the image straightened and cleared. No significant ion traces were even left to record the former presence of the disaster ships. The destruction had been complete and absolute. Somebody In the room cheered. The reaction spread to become a glorious sound of jubilation and relief. The spaceport controller went to the communications section, where his operators had been attempting to make contact with the liberators. Despite their efforts they still could gain no reply. The mysterious fleet of ships winked out one by one until the screen was as empty as if no such fleet had ever existed. "Commando action," said Ren. "No survivors and no traces left. The Federation could deny there had ever been a battle and nobody on Ranee could prove them wrong. We're the only witnesses and we're not likely to tell." "So the Federation is awake to the merchant worlds' activities;" San Weba had returned to Ren's side. "I always thought they must be. This isn't the first time I've heard of a Ranee disaster fleet's disappearing." "Even so, we were lucky," said Ren. "Space is a big place. Even the Federation can't hope to police more than a very small fraction of it. The problem must be to know where the merchant worlds 'are going to move next. More than anything it's an exercise in good intelligence. It's tempting to hope that Federation intelligence spreads even to the Rim, but there's no sign on Roget of any Federation agency." "Do you think this is the last we'll see of Ranee?" asked Weba. "The trade worlds must know they can't take on the Federation. If they suspect Federation influence here they'll shy off like a shoal of startled fish. There are enough rich pickings in the galaxy that involve far less a risk. For myself I think ' Ranee will forget the whole affair." T HE sense of an unusual happening was strong upon Ren as he fetched the cushion-craft to a halt at the door of his chambers. A servant, obviously posted as a lookout, ran hastily to meet him as he waited for the air-cushion to subside. "Master -- the Lady T' Ampere has come to see you. She waits for you inside." "To see me?" Ren was mildly surprised. It was evident, however, that his servant was more than a little impressed by the visit. In the activities of the past few weeks Ren had forgotten the mistress of Secondhill. The regulation of affairs in Anharitte had seemed so inextricably bound by the whims of the Lords Di Rode, Di Irons and Di Guaard -- and the Imaiz himself -- that there had seemed little room for feminine participation. Intrigued, he made his way up the steps and turned into his chambers. The room seemed full of Ahhn servants paying attention to the one who sat regally awaiting his coming. Then, at a sign, all activity ceased and the room assumed an almost empty atmosphere as Ren approached. "Lady T Ampere?" "Agent Ren, I take you to be." "At your service, my Lady." Ren looked at the wealth of colored veils, discerning beneath them the brightest, the most penetrating and the most dauntingly feline pair of eyes he had ever encountered. The veils were swept aside and the Lady T Ampere rose to her feet and moved from the chair to meet him. She was mature in years, yet by no means old. Her skin was far darker than was common among the Ahhn and was dry in texture, but strong character and something that had once been great beauty still shone from her countenance. She carried an aura -- a presence -- that stopped Ren in mid-stride and set him back on his heels. Here was IF one of nature's own aristocrats. She motioned toward him. "I would speak with you privately, Agent Ren." Her voice had the precise tone of one used to command. "Please have your servants leave us." Ren turned and motioned to his staff to leave. He glanced at the Lady T Ampere's retinue, expecting them also to be dismissed. When they stayed in their places he turned back to his visitor for explanation and was met by a mocking smile. "The house servants of T Ampere see much and hear much, but they never speak a word of what they learn. And do you know why. Agent Ren? It's because they have no tongues." "No tongues?" For a moment he failed to grasp the implication of the phrase. When he did he was overcome with nausea'. "I can see by your face that you think me barbarous. But barbarity has to be assessed against a norm. For the house of T Ampere my servants are the norm. Dion-daizan would kill me for this if he could -- and that's why I'm here. I wish to offer you an alliance in your fight against Dion." Forgetting to probe the etiquette of the situation, Ren sat down in the nearest chair, his mind still fighting the horror of the twenty or so deliberate mutes who surrounded their mistress. He was not at all sure he wanted to be joined in such a frightful allegiance, "My feud with the Imaiz is a private affair," he said at last. "Indeed? Is that why you tried to win the support of Di Irons, Di Guaard and Di Rode? Come, Agent Ren! I know my Anharitte and there's little you've said or done here that has not been relayed to me in detail. As you rightly surmised, Dion is playing with some very dangerous forces, If he succeeds the old way of life will fall. The flood will sweep away the aristocracy, the societies, the peace and stability of our times and certainly the freetrade preference you yourself enjoy. What I think you misjudge is the violence of the flood." Ren frowned. "Such situations are not beyond my experience." "This one Will be. Think of what would happen if my dumb cortege ever believed the old laws were ended. What nights of bloody horror would be precipitated?" "To what nights of horror have your people already been exposed?" asked Ren coldly. "While I agree with you in principle, I abominate your practices." "I'm not interested in your squeamish idealism, I'm talking about facts as they exist." Her curiously bright eyes fixed him with a gaze little short of hypnotic and her voice was like a band of steel. "Like it or not, you're committed to opposing Dion-daizan. Your lucrative freetrade can't survive if he wins. Furthermore, in the blood bath that will come if he's allowed to tip the scale too far you'll pay equally with those who burn their slaves or cut out their tongues. You're as much a part of the old way of life as they. Make no mistake, Agent Ren -- you're already one of the damned." "You have a proposition?" Ren asked at last. "I have five hundred men at arms disposal for the storming of Magda. I would expect you to use your influence with the societies to muster a similar force. Not even Magda could stand for longagainst a thousand men." "It won't work," said Ren. "Di Irons would never permit a pitched battle in Anharitte." "Di Irons would be powerless against an army of a thousand. What could he do -- arrest them all? But in any case, you may safely leave the prefect to me. You would march Under my banner -- and a noble house has right of arms anywhere in the city, at any time. I can assure you that on the day we move the prefect and his men will be looking the other way." "I'll think it over," said Ren. "I'll need to sound out the societies first." "Then don't delay too long. Dion has a bill of manumission set for consideration by the planetary government. Rumor has it that it'll be favorably received. If it becomes law many slaves will earn the right to become freemen -- though their sympathies will remain unchanged. At the moment we can move an army against Dion without opposition. If the manumission bill goes through the task will be much more difficult. A veritable legion of freemen will be eager to delay us." "I promise you an answer with all speed. Within a day I'll come to you on Secondhill and tell you what support we have. I think you'll have your way if I can sway the societies in that time." "Then I'll look to receive you at this time tomorrow, Agent Ren. But let this warning spur you -- if Dion wins don't hope for personal survival. Your support by and for the aristocracy is too well known for you to survive even a minor rebellion. If Dion's flood gates open you, too, will be flotsam on the tide." T HE evening was a fine one. Breathing across the broad back of Firsthill, the warm winds from the sea gained a rich scent IF from the abundance of flowering trees and shrubs that flourished around the little squares and plazas. Here a trade cry and there a hint of music added texture to the air and endowed it with a sense of life. The individually wrought and unplanned buildings, illuminated by the growing gold of evening, formed a picture that touched some unexpected vein of artistry in Ren's soul. He felt he wanted to impress the perfection of this image into some more permanent form, so that he could take it to some other time and relive this evening hour. Unfortunately he knew of no medium with the scope or fidelity to record the nuances of light, the scents and sounds and character of Anharitte. He could only promise himself that, whatever the outcome of his feud with Dion-daizan, the city as it now stood must never be destroyed. The Lodge of the Pointed Tails was particularly impressive with its golden turrets and ornate red relief. Passing into its rich interior, Ren was once again lost in the lyric pictures that depicted the bloody and glorious progress of the Ahhn out of barbarism to their present proud community. The message was not lost on him. The Ahhn civilization was too newly acquired to have become an innate precept. If it were disrupted at this stage every possibility existed that the whole society would revert to the former pattern of savage warrior tribes and be set back five hundred years in history. In mid-stride Ren was caught by the realization that in opposing Dion-daizan he had himself adopted a measure of responsibility for the future of the Ahhn. As representative of an outworld power and in control of money and resources comparable with those of the nobility he was equally responsible with Di Irons, Di Guaard and the Imaiz for preserving the essential Anharitte. No victory, however won, would taste anything but bitter if the prize were destroyed in the winning. As usual, Catuul Gras was expecting him. No movement Of persons of interest ever went unreported to the scribe. Catuul had been practicing shadow-fighting with some curiously old and ornate toothed swords when Ren entered. These fearsome instruments he laid carefully on the long table and addressed the weapons rather than the agent. "So the Lady T' Ampere has made her proposition?" Ren felt his eyes drawn to the barbarous swords, which were fashioned to inflict the most terrible wounds in flesh, yet disengage cleanly -- they were weapons for use when no quarter would be asked or given. "She has. What do you know?" "The house servants of Lady T Ampere have no tongues. But they can speak with their hands. And so can we. You acquitted yourself well in that conversation, friend Tito. She's one of the abolii." The latter word was taken from the old Ahhn phrase for detestable. Ren had heard it used occasionally, but seldom with such feeling. He was gratified to note that the systematic mutilation of slaves was unpopular even with the societies. "The point is," said Ren, "do we accept her offer or not? I need your advice. And I need to know if the societies will cooperate." "You ask two questions, friend Tito, arid I give you two answers." Catuul took up one of the vicious swords and drove it Savagely into the plaster of the wall.' "My own advice to you is on no account become. associated, with T Ampere iii any way. The House of T'Empte  made a similar mistake. Now T'Empte is an empty province. But nonetheless -- the societies will find . five hundred men. They don't favor the idea, but if Dion's bill of manumission is accepted by the planetary government it will be the start of the end of us all. We must support even the abolii if we wish to preserve our way of life." Ren took up the seoond sword and examined its toothed edge. Held closely, it lost its cumbersome appearance and the dreadful artistry of the razor teeth made him wince as he imagined its effect in battle. Its balance was perfect in his hands. "The clans have already spoken then?" "The elders have been holding council for days regarding Dion's bill. They have decided he must not be allowed to press the bill to law. To have five hundred extra men from T Ampere for the purpose is worth a pact with the devil." "Then I may confirm to Lady T Ampere that her offer is acceptable?" "Go at the agreed hour tomorrow. If there is any change in the situation I'll contact you before you go. If you don't hear from me, assume that it's safe to accept TAmpere's offier." "Why so guarded?" "Because the Lady T Ampere had a visitor earlier today -- before she came to you, Sonel Taw, the castellan of Di Guaard. We don't yet know what was said, but it's an absolute certainty that my Lord Delph knew nothing of it. Mad he may be, but even he would have no commerce with T Ampere. Tread very carefully, friend Tito. There's great mischief in the making in Anharitte, and T Ampere is behind it." IF Secondhill. The once-great fortress of TAmpere had been laid in ruins in some former conflict. Now its broken walls and chambers gaped amazedly at the sky, as if it could still not comprehend the fury that had destroyed it. At the foot of the ruins sat the neat circle of the chateau and the home estate. True, the complex was walled, but not in the sense of forming a stronghold in battle. T' Ampere's strength lay in other regions. To reach T Ampere, Ren had passed from Firsthill down through the slave market and crossed the ship lanes by slimboat. From here he had ascended Secondhill by the only access worthy of being called a road. The way had wound steeply up between the great banks of a natural pass. During the climb he had seen no signs of life or habitation. Breaking suddenly over the brow of the hill he-came upon the gates of the chateau before he had guessed their nearness. Unlike the other hills, each of which had an attendant township gathered outside the citadel, Secondhill contained only the walled seat of TAmpere and immediately spread out to contain nothing but the broken, sheepgrazed slopes that reached down to the eastern plains and TAmpere province. Ren's first impression that the Chateau TAmpere was undefended was soon corrected. His path toward the broad gates had placed him in a neat ambush. He found himself surrounded by some undoubtedly competent soldiery and was 'forcibly conducted to a barracks associated with the great house and there interrogated by an officer. When he had established his identity a runner was despatched to ascertain Lady T'Amperp's wishes in the matter. The message came back that Ren would be summoned when the lady pleased. Fuming at the treatment he was receiving, Ren found himself locked in a cell for two hours until a guide came to conduct him to Lady T Ampere. The rooms of TAmpere were depressing. Here was traditional Ahhn style used to an extreme extent, with carpets many centimetres ' thick... strewn with cushions. Even the walls were smothered with heavy drapes and curtains. The screened windows admitted barely any light and what light did gain entrance was immediately absorbed by the browns and grays and blacks of the soft furnishings. Ren was reminded of the lair of a pampered cat -- even the air seemed pungent with an overpowering feline smell. Here, he reasoned, was one more instance where nobility and absolute power over others had overfed itself to produce something mentally and physically unwholesome. It came to him that the Ahhn nobility had shown him little to commend its survival. Perhaps Dion's revolution was fated to succeed. "You bring me an answer. Agent Ren?" T' Ampere rose from the gloom, bright-eyed like a jungle creature regarding its prey. Ren longed to strike at the bright mockery. "Perhaps. But first I'd like an apology for being detained so long by your men. I came here at your invitation to answer a question you had asked. I resent being treated like a thief." The amusement quickened in her face. "Believe me, if you saw what we did to thieves in TAmpere you would raise no such unjust accusation." Ren saw she was playing with him and decided to deny her the pleasure of drawing a response. His dislike of the woman was now intense. "Lady TAmpere, yesterday you brought me a proposal -- five hundred men at arms to use against Magda if the societies would provide a like number. This they've agreed to do." "A firm decision so quickly?" The feline eyes narrowed. "Eitherl you have remarkable powers off persuasion or the elders have be-f come mortally afraid of Dion."  "They didn't take me into their  confidence. In this matter I act only i as messenger." Ren felt disinclined ? to elaborate. "I doubt that's true." She shook j her head impatiently. "But it's of; no importance. At any rate we now have our alliance." "We do not," said Ren abruptly. "I said the societies had agreed. I didn't say that I agreed." A flicker of anger crossed her face. "And what objection do you have, merchant?" "When I climbed Secondhill I had no objection. But I want now to know why I was detained. Was it to make me conscious I was not of the Anharitte nobility? Or was it to keep me out of the way while some other plans were entertained?" "I find your impertinence less than amusing. Do you suspect me of duplicity?" "I suspect the alliance you offer is not as simple as you claim." "Grief! And do you also have a name for these other activities in which you think I'm involved?" Her voice held steely contempt. "At a guess I'd say they concerned Di Guaard and Sonel Taw." Her face became clouded with IF disbelief then relaxed into laughter. "You have my apology. Agent Ren. I mistook you for a fool. I see now why even Dion treats you with circumspection. You understand us far better than we understand ourselves. Let's stop fencing with each other and conclude Our alliance. I perceive we make worthy partners in' mistrust." "When I need your men I'll send for them," said Ren. "I won't make advance plans with you, because T' Ampere has no talent for secrecy. When I ask for your men you are to send the full five hundred without delay and they will respond to my lieutenants, not their own ; Only on these terms can I afford to be involved with T Ampere." "You've been well schooled," she said thoughtfully. "It's a good sign. Very well, your terms are accepted. If you cover yourself as well against your enemies as you do against your allies and should have a Indeed, I've a mind to make you a second proposition." "Which is?" "I could use a man of your caliber at T' Ampere. The rewards would be far and above anything the company could offer." "In what capacity?" asked Ren without enthusiasm. "Consort," said Lady TAmpere. Ren felt physically sick. "I'm afraid the proposition's unthinkable. For me to adapt to the ways of TAmpere is not possibleFor TAmpere to adapt to me would need a major revolution." "Then I'll order runners to light your way down the slopes. Such paths can be treacherous." "In the high places of Anharitte all paths seem to be treacherous," said Ren. Ren left the Chateau TAmpere. The beautiful Rim stars were spread in a wide, bright pattern and such was their illumination that torches were not actually necessary. Nevertheless a dozen runners with flares were waiting to guide him down the path toward Firsthill and the light from their brands at first obscured a shifting redness in the western sky. Clear of the gates, Ren stopped and directed the runners to fall be? hind him so that he could better see the flame on the farther hill. An angry red patch seemed to burn on the left side of Firsthill, but its precise location was difficult to determine. As he continued down the pass the direct view of the conflagration was lost to him and its existence was told only by a continued redness in the sky. At the river he bade the runners return to their mistress. A slimboat. attracted by the light of the flares, came to ferry him across the shipping lanes. The boatman had no knowledge of the fire on Firsthill, but opted for the direction of Di Guaard when questioned about its probable location. Having gained the shore, Ren hurried through the now deserted slave market and was soon in the complex of streets at the top of the hill. A trade call alerted him to the presence of a waiting armsman from the Pointed Tails. "Agent Ren, Catuul asked that I intercept you on your return. He wishes to speak with you at the lodge. We must proceed with caution." "What's happening here?" asked Ren. "The slaves of Di Guaard have set fire to the castle. Rumor has it that Delph Di Guaard is slain. The prefect and his men are now in attendance, Catuul suggests it would be unwise for you to enter the district." "He's probably right. The timing of this affair is not without significance. Lead me by a safe route to the lodge." The streets were crowded with sightseers drifting toward the scene of the fire. In the background a shadowy traffic of hurrying men indicated the messengers of various agencies going to report or being sent again to keep up with the news. The armsman hastened Ren through the slowly moving throng, turning aside always to avoid dark places. A constant chatter of inquiry came from opened upperstory windows as bewildered heads tried to gauge the cause of the commotion. The armsman stopped to engage no one in conversation. Though he did not speak of it, his movements seemed to anticipate danger at every corner and his hand was forever hovering near his sword. the lodge. "Is it true that the slaves of Di Guaard have revolted?" Ren asked him. Catuul nodded. "It's true. But they were incited to revolt." "By whom? Not the Imaiz, surely?" "No, by the castellan, Sonel Taw. I think he saw in the ruse a chance to depose Lord Delph. But in any event he's failed." "Were the prefect's men so quick to Delph's defense?" "The prefect's men were unable even to pass the outer walls. By the time they reached the castle the fight was over and most of the slaves were contained. Which ts fortunate, because if they had escaped into Anharitte and gained support from their fellows the whole city IF would probably be afire by now." "I sensed as much," said Ren. 'Tensions are high in the streets tonight. But if Sonel Taw incited the slaves to riot, who was it who quelled them?" "A hundred bondsmen from Magda," said Catuul, looking nowhere in particular. "Magda? Slave against slave? To protect Di Guaard?" Ren was fazed momentarily. , "I knew you'd not believe me, friend Tito, bu( I can only speak what I know. Though I doubt if it was Delph Di Guaard's health they were interested in maintaining. I think they were as afraid as we of the incident's starting a general uprising. With seven slaves in the district for every freeman, tonight could have been one of the bloodier pages of history." "And if Di Irons had been forced to call in the government forces, it would have been even bloodier." Ren nodded his acceptance of the logic. There was no doubt that if once the floodgates of violence tfere opened they would be extremely difficult to close. A commotion at the door broke up the conversation. Three of the Pointed Tails armsmen were struggling to subdue a prisoner they had taken from the streets, who had broken away at the last moment. Fortunately they were men who knew their trade. Shortly a tyxly was thrown through the door to land at Catuul's feet. The scribe turned the wretch over wonderingly, a short dagger held to the man's throat. With his windpipe in peril Sonel Taw, the castellan of Di Guaard, looked up from the floor in genuine anguish. "Ah! The idiot is here," said Catuul with some satisfaction. "Witness the man who was crass enough to risk all Anharitte to satisfy his spite." Sonel Taw noticed Ren and struggled to sit up. His face lit with an ingratiating smile of recognition. "Agent Ren knows me. He'll tell you all is not as it seems. We have an understanding, the agent and I. Ren, keep these ruffians from my throat." "I think not," said Ren. "What you've provoked tonight could well have killed us all. If you had a quarrel with Di Guaard you should have tried it man to man. But to involve the slaves could have resulted in a massacre." "But -- " The castellan rose to his knees, his, eyes searching piteously for comprehension. "But it was part of the plan -- " "What plan?" "Hers -- she toRT me of your intent -- " Taw had the look of a man betrayed. "That bitch . T' Ampere," said Ren. "She's behind this. She thought by now to have me in her pocket." "But you aren't?" inquired Catuul anxiously. "I agreed to nothing more than -to send for her men as and when I required them against Magda. Di Guaard wasn't even mentioned. In fact, she kept me at the chateau until Castle Di Guaard was well in flames." "Good. Then we aren't compromised. Tonight's work has no reflection on our feud with the Imaiz. You're a man of goodsense, friend Tito. And our fallen castellan here will find few to mourn his passing." Catuul bent forward again with the dagger. Ren intervened. "Send your men to deliver him to Di Irons. He's more the prefect's concern than he is ours. I think a few days at the hands of Di Irons' tormentors will be valuable to his education -- and we've no time to "No time?" The Scribe regarded I Ren curiously. "Your meaning esi capes me." j "A hundred men from Magda came to Firsthill: A hundred of the : ! same we'll have to fight if we storm  the castle. Doesn't it make sense to see that as few as possible get back to Magda? They're on our territory and they've a river to cross. We , have them at quite a disadvantage."  Catuul considered for a moment, then leaped to his feet, shouting orders apd calling for men. His acceptance of Ren's point was immediate once he had explored the implications. He was secretly fu' rious with himself for not having realized so vital a matter earlier. Much valuable time had been lost and the men from Magda must by now be dispersed through the city and be making their way down to Firstwater. Leaving the hapless castellan in the company of armsmen charged with the duty of delivering him to the prefect, Catuul collected Ren and they sped out into the night... signals had alerted all the Pointed Tails, including those who acted as guards at the slave compounds on the edge of Firstwater. The first priority was to try to IF locate the boats the men from Magda would try to use for their return. The second was to locate and harass the enemy itself. Ren found the whole operation confusing. Traveling at a steady run, usually by torchlight but occasionally by starlight alone, Catuul was a veritable mobile headquarters. Out of the darkness messengers would gather to exchange a few quiet words and be dispatched again to carry out some new command. Just how the messengers located Catuul Gras in the first place was quite beyond Ren's comprehension -- the scribe was constantly on the move. But the system appeared to work and gradually some semblance of order grew in the middle of apparent chaos. Resignedly Ren settled into a labored jog-trot, the nearest approach he could make to the Ahhns' effortless style of running. Nevertheless he found the going hard. At the foot of the Trade Road the scribe motioned the breathless agent to rest for a while. "We're in luck, friend Tito. The news is that they've not yet crossed back over the water. Some were seen coming through the town and down the Blackslope. Others escaped down Sidepath and must now be crossing the plain to join their fellows near the Black Rock. We've secured all the slimboats along Firstwater, but it looks now as though they must have made the crossing farther west. Now we must drive along the. riverbank as far as TEmpte Crossing and try to separate them from their boats." "Will we be in time?" "Some are reported only a few minutes ahead of us and they may not yet realize we're after them. They've only to stop and wait for their comrades on the other route and we shall trap them." Ren nodded. He felt the excitement of the chase and this piece of harassment would be an excellent chance to even the score with the Imaiz. He turned and followed Catuul eagerly toward the river. The whole scene was so utterly devoid of sounds or people that he found it nearly impossible to believe that only a short distance ahead were a hundred meii from Magda and a large attacking force of Pointed Tails determined to stop their escape into boats and across the river. After ten minutes Ren became seriously worried. He was almost within sight of TEmpte Crossing and along the bank the slimboats used by the ferrymen were neatly drawn to cover and undisturbed -- but there still was no sign of Catuul or the enemy. Then he stopped, rubbing his eyes with disbelief. At first he thought his vision tricked by the dim light, but the continuous shine across and above the surface of the water was no chimera -- it persisted and was real. Yet the image seemed to have no connection with the circumstances in which he found it. Then, even as he watched, a sudden burst of flame on the far side of Secondwater reared upward and spread out along the curious shining thing spanning the river. The image began to collapse and Ren heard the shouts and calls of the Pointed Tails a little farther up the riverbank. Passing Magda Crossing, where the slimboats were now well secured by grinning armsmen, they advanced along the bank of Secondwater. This part of the way was clearer, there being no wharves or buildings along the bank. Here open fields led to a line of trees at the water's edge and there was little concealment for men save the blanket of darkness. A series of trade calls began to sound from the direction of the Black Rock, now to their left across the fields, and Catuul answered them without hesitation. "Magda's men are still on this side of the river," the scribe told Ren. "They gather near the old T'Empte Crossing about a kilometer hence. There'll be fighting -- I'll leave you here. Make your way to the crossing carefully. I think our trap is sprung." Catuul called his men around him and together they trotted ahead. Ren, whose occupation and outworld training had ill prepared him for such marathon running, regretfully watched them go. Although he was in excellent physical condition by outworld standards, he lacked schooling in the style that enabled the native Ahhn to continue running for hour upon hour with little sign of fatigue. He sat on a large projection of rock and rested for some minutes before continuing to walk slowly toward the appointed place. Ren had thought to hear sounds of battle ahead, but all was silent. This made him wary -- perhaps the men from Magda had avoided the contact and were even now moving back across the fields. The light from the stars was insufficient for him to see more than a short distance around him. Every tree had the capacity to be a potential point of ambush. He walked as near the river's edge as he dared, sword drawn and fully prepared to fight or run as the occasion might require. Intrigued by this mystery, Ren hastened forward. He should, he thought, by now be able to hear the sound of steel on steel, or the slap of an Ahhn crossbow. Instead all he IF heard were voices and the unmistakable trade calls of the Pointed Tails carrying reports to those farther afield... made him stand, sword ready, until the call of a nightbird he recognized as Catuul's signature sounded close to him. "The Imaiz has beaten us." Catuul Gras appeared suddenly at Ren's elbow. "Didn't I tell you he was a wizard?" "What happened?" asked Ren. "Didn't you catch them?" "They got away from us, all of them. Dion's magic made a bridge of mist across the river and they ran over it. We could have taken some of them, but none of us dared approach such a terrible thing." "Damn! How did he manage that?" "I know nothing of the ways of wizardry," said Catuul, slightly affronted. "A rhetorical question. I was thinking out loud," said Ren. "Dion is no more a wizard than I am. And I tell you there's no such thing as a bridge of mist that can bear the weight of a man. There has to be some rational explanation." Despite Catuul's obvious reluctance to follow, Ren moved along the river bank to where he had seen the curious shining thing on the water. Something submerged appeared to be distorting the surface of the river. He called for torches, but none were available. "Mark this spot, Catuul, and guard it. At first light I want boats here to explore both banks and drag out anything in the water. The river here is best part of a hundred and fifty meters wide -- and a thing that could carry a hundred men across it in a few minutes can't possibly have vanished without trace." "Except a bridge of mist," said Catuul, still unconvinced. to be escorted back to his chambers. Though his body was thoroughly tired, his mind persisted in wrestling with the problem of the intangible bridge. He could in no way reconcile a shine across the water and the scribe's description of a bridge of mist with anything capable of bearing the weight of a hundred men across the water yet able to vanish and leave no trace. Ren's education had prepared him with a good grounding in what physical parameters he could normally expect to encounter, but none of his knowledge of physics appeared relevant to the case. He was known scientific principle might be involved, yet he was incapable of finding a satisfactory answer by # employing any known principles. One reason for his intense preoccupation with the problem was his projected scheme for the storming of Castle Magda. He sensed in Catuul a superstitious awe of the works of the Imaiz that had to be dispelled if the campaign against Magda were to be a success. Unless Ren could prove to the Pointed Tails that the vanishing bridge was only a clever trick, theywould carry the attack against Magda burdened with the fear of some new manifestation of the Imaiz' s magic. It was easy to see that such a condition would give any maneuver a rather precarious chance of success. Firstlight seemed to come all too soon. Ren had taken his problem to bed and had lain awake with it for several hours despite his tiredness. When he finally succumbed to sleep it was for a few hours only. A servant came to wake him with the reminder that Catuul Gras would be waiting for him at T'Empte Crossing. Cursing the scribe for his apparent ability to do without sleep, Ren rose and washed but refused the delay of breakfast. Unable to face the long walk involved, he sent for stavebearers and took the cushion-craft, fretting all the way down the Trade Road amid the morning traffic of carriers' carts. Once past the Black Rock and free from the restrictive attentions of the stave bearers, he turned off toward T'Empte Crossing. For the last part of the journey he went directly across the fields to where he could see a group of Pointed Tails on the riverbank. Catuul Gras received him with enthusiasm. Several men were in the river, diving deep to recover volumes of some substance they hauled ashore in a continuous strand and piled for Ren's inspection. Boats from the farther shore were fetching back a curious item found abandoned on the sandy beach, the purpose of which was completely obscure to the native Ahhn. complete Ren inspected it briefly and the concept immediately fell into place. The shine across the waters, the idea of a bridge of mists, the carrying of a hundred men across the river -- all these puzzles suddenly had an explanation. Ren swore mightily when he realized the nature of the objects before him. Behind his comprehension was an absolute certainty that the Imaiz was nothing more than a clever technician with a typically Terran training. The items with which he had been presented consisted of a continuous length of heavy-gauge polythene sheet formed into a tube of a IF diameter more than sufficient to admit a standing man, and a primitive large-capacity air bellows. Some sort of rush matting had additionally been provided to spread the weight of a man traversing the interior of the tube over water. A quantity of rope had been recovered which presumably had been used to haul the flexible "tunnel" across the river and to secure it in place. "Tell me how it works," implored Catuul Gras. Ren pursed his lips. "It's an old Terran device. That large plastic tube, when filled with air, will float and will easily bear the weight of a man on the water. Fitted with flaps through which a man can enter without losing too much air and an air pump sufficient to keep it filled, it makes a floating bridge. It's cheap, simple, and expendable -- you can afford to set fire to it if you fear your enemies might try to follow you across." "Then it isn't magic?" asked Catuul. He sounded almost disappointed. "Far from it. In a smaller and modified form it's used in a common Terran water sport -- men tie themselves into large plastic bubbles and run races over lakes and rivers. It's simply the clever application of a common out world principle." "Which reinforces your suggestion that the Imaiz is a Terran?" "I don't know." Ren thought about his answer carefully. His words were colored by a new caution. "There's a Terran influence, certainly -- but that could be acquired from books. The main factor that emerges from this affair is that Dion and his men are effectively policing Anharitte. They seem to be trying to prevent a catastrophic breakdown of your society even as they are undermining it. A restructuring without a revolution. Quite a trick -- if you can achieve it." "But didn't Dion break faith with his own at Di Guaard yesterday? Slave against slave was something no one had expected." "He broke faith only if you assume that his interest is the emancipation of the slaves. But perhaps his real policy is a larger purpose -- that of emancipating the Ahhn as a race. But in any event I can't see that either freetrade or the societies can survive the transition. We're both part of the old pattern." "So you intend to go through with your march on Magda?" asked Catuul gravely. "To Magda it is. And in view of Dion's manumission bill this may well be the last chance we'll get. I propose we strike Magda as soon as possible and with the largest force we can muster. Whatever happens, we mustn't fail. A great many people will be watching the battle. If we lose, the Imaiz will not only gain Anharitte but probably his policies will win him all Roget as well. Our assault on Magda could have a great bearing on the shape of history. That's why we must plan it well." "What did you mean by the emancipation of the Ahhn ?" asked Catuul after a while. "It's a relative concept that would only be apparent if you'd lived outworld," said Ren, realizing his mistake. XX XjL the watchmen were waiting for Ren to return. Their interception of him was swift and deliberate. The stave-bearers were halted. "What's the meaning of this?" "The prefect requires your presence, Agent Ren." "Again? This is becoming too much of a habit. But it's early and I've not yet breakfasted. Tell him I will come to him later." The leading watchman shook his head. "Our orders were to bring you in all haste. The Lord Di Irons is in a fury." "Then I'm afraid his fury must wait for a proper time. Stand aside." Ren had observed that the stavebearers had drawn to the side of the road and that the way in front of him was clear save for the three watchmen. The craft's cushions were still inflated and he doubted the law-enforcers would stand in the path of the vehicle if it began to move. He edged it forward, slowly at first to warn the men out of his way, then faster. He was gratified to note that they made no attempt to halt his progress, but retired to the road's edge to discuss the situation. Ren continued swiftly, having no thought of returning for the stavebearers who still stood waiting for a decision from the watchmen. When he was out of weapon range he began to breathe more freely. This had been a trial of strength between himself and the authority of Di Irons -- and for the moment he had won. As he drove unescorted to the fruit market he honestly questiQned his own motives for refusing to accede to the watchmen's demands. He found his reasons not as clear as they had seemed moments earlier. As one of the prime movers of events in Anharitte, he had come to resent the prefect's imperious demands on his time. Yet now he thought about it, it grew more plain that he was attempting to set IF himself up above the law -- and the only persons above the law in Anharitte were the lords. He became interested -- and slightly apprehensive -- about how Di Irons would react. At worst, and if it suited the perfect's purpose, Di Irons would be justified in detaining him and demanding his deportation. At best, Di Irons might overlook the slight and await Ren's coming at a later hour. Ren's surmises, however, in no way covered the actual reaction his stand had provoked. Within the hour Di Irons himself was announced on his doorstep. "Didn't you hear, Tito, that I needed words with you at once?" "My apologies. Prefect, but I was about early and was greatly in need of food. I was coming to see you soon." The prefect waved the matter aside impatiently and accepted a plate at Ren's table. "First I have to thank you for sending me Sonel Taw. Under threat of torment he has told me much that explains last night." "Did he kill Di Guaard?" asked Ren. "The fool tried, though I doubt if he had the courage to perform the deed himself. Di Guaard died in the fire, nonetheless. But that wasn't why I wanted words with you. Taw also hinted at a liaison between you and the Lady T' Ampere. Can this be true?" "Liaison's too strong a term. She has offered me men to reinforce my society in feud against Diondaizan." "At what price?" "I struck no bargain on price. She claims Dion is out to kill her -- which may or may not be true, though I hope it is -- and she offered me help if I would lead a strike against him. This I'ye agreed to do, but on my own terms." "How many men did she offer?" Di Irons seemed angry, not with Ren directly but seemingly with all the world. "She suggested five hundred -- if the society would find a like quantity." "Five hundred? T' Ampere has five thousand to use if she chooses. If you should take Magda, what do you suppose will happen to the rest of Magda province?" "I'd not given the matter a thought." "Then I'll tell you. With the Imaiz removed, T' Ampere would take the rest of the province, because nobody, not even I, could stop her. You're the only man in Anharitte who would dare to take arms against Dion-daizan, so she sees in you a useful catspaw. If you should succeed you will hand her Magda province on a plate. If you lose she's lost at most five hundred men. Do you now see in what you've become involved?" "I hadn't known the details of her ambitions," said Ren. "Therefore I find your warning timely. But I'm not sure it modifies my plan." "I hadn't expected you to be easily swayed. But if you're still intent on turning Thirdhill into a battle ground you should at least know in what cause your blood is being spilled. It's your life balanced against her gain. Do you think it a fair bargain?" "Are you trying to warn me not to proceed with the exploit?" "I don't give a damn whether you proceed or not. You've almost no chance of winning and a very high chance of getting killed in the attempt. Even if you win, T' Ampere will take the major prize. You can work out the odds for yourself. But I warn you -- you're engaged in an unholy alliance if you've listened to T Ampere. She's made the almost identical proposition to most of the lords in the past, but history has taught them caution. Only T'Empte ever fell for the ruse." "Catuul Gras spoke of T'Empte as an empty province. What happened to the House of TEmpte?" "The House of T'Empte was destroyed partly by T Ampere's treachery and partly because Dion's revenge was so terrible. Since T'Empte was the catspaw, T Ampere escaped more lightly. The old vixen's been sitting nursing her wounds these many years, waiting for someone else for her to thrust first into the fight with Dion." "And now you think I've been elected?" "You're the first new major force to emerge in Anharitte since the destruction of T'Empte. It was only a matter of time before you became included in her schemes." "I'll mark well what you've said," said Ren. "I promise it will be taken into account before a decision is reached. But if I decide to storm Magda -- where will I find my Lord Di Irons standing?" "Slightly to your rear, looking the other way. You're taking T' Ampere's banner. Noble house against Noble house still has legitimacy -- they have the right to bear arms anywhere in the city. Even the planetary government couldn't object to your action under T' Ampere's shield. But the cost of digging your graves will certainly be passed on to your company." "You paint a black picture." "Traditionally the rocks of Thirdhill have been awash with the blood of attackers since the stones of Castle Magda were first raised. I see no reason to suppose that this occasion will be any different." IF shape. Dubious at first, Catuul Gras rapidly became an enthusiastic convert when he saw the scope and thoroughness of the agent's ideas. Much preliminary work needed to be done and Catuul's standing with the elders of the clans foreshortened many otherwise lengthy negotiations. A large quantity of small boats was purchased along the coast to provide ready transport both for the attack and the unlikely event of a forced withdrawal. Canvassing around the Tyrene villages produced scores of useful contacts whose services would be needed when the great day came. Ren watched the steadily mounting bill for purchases and bribes and knew that this was goihg to be his final attempt. If this venture failed he was unlikely to be given the money or the opportunity to try again. He had to succeed. The more involved Catuul Gras became with the planning of the exploit, the more he began to appreciate how Ren's unique outworlders' view of Anharitte threw up ideas and perspectives by no means apparent to those who had spent their lives in the city. Although Ren's knowledge of Ahhn history was not complete, his understanding of the causes and motivations of political events was a revelation to the scribe. Ideas which in outline were received in doubtful silence won enthusiastic favor when Ren placed them in careful context. Whatever the results of the coming battle, the event was certain to find a permanent place in Anharitte's history. For Ren the affair, was necessarily a compromise. After his experiences with Alek Hardun he felt compelled to eschew the benefits of modern outworld weaponry. This limited his armory to what could be made or found from native resources. However, he felt no such limitations on his ingenuity. Ahhn craftsmen found themselves building instruments of siege and war which belonged not to their own history but to that of another race far across the legendary stars. Logic dictated that rocket projectiles would have been more effective against Magda than ballistae and chain-cannon, but Ren was aware of a growing sense of responsibility toward the Ahhn. The release of too much advanced weaponry into their feudal society could have destroyed them just as effectively as if the ships of Ranee had succeeded in their task; Alternately, to go into battle ill-prepared was to invite disaster. Nor were the words of Di Irons on T Ampereoverlooked. In his planning Ren had attempted to cover all of the many aspects of the exercise brought to his attention and several facets which he had determined for himself. Overall he had contrived to construct a time of chaos such that even the prefect would find it difficult to determine exactly what was taking place. It was also hoped that even the Imaiz's spies would present such a mass of irrelevant information to Dion that much could be achieved before the true pattern of the attack became apparent. All in all, Ren was rather pleased with his design. He was certain that Director Vestevaal would have given the whole scheme his heartiest approval. At last Ren was ready to make his move. With the initial attack on Magda scheduled for late afternoon a messenger was sent that morning to call out T Ampere's men. The messenger returned with the news that the party from Secondhill would join them at midday. This was largely as Ren had anticipated. He then waited for reports from the spies he had posted on T' Ampere's borders before ordering his men into the field. His judgment proved correct. Coincident with the sending of five hundred men from T' Ampere to join Ren's sortie against Magda, the mistress of Secondhill had ordered nearly ten times that number of men to the shores of the River Daizan in the east, flanking Magda province. When he had received confirmation of this fact, Ren caused signals to be flown to set in motion the next phase of his plan. T' Ampere was due for a nasty shock. The notion pleased Ren -- it was with a wolfish smile on his face that he went to marshal his own forces. Against agreement, the five hundred from T Ampere came complete with their own officers. These were neatly disarmed by the Pointed Tails and removed from the scene with some alacrity. Moreover, the five hundred were outnumbered at least two to one by members of the Pointed Tails and other societies brought in by Catuul as reinforcements. Lacking more direct orders from T' Ampere, the five hundred accepted the viewpoint offered them and soon became integrated in the total army marching on Thirdhill. hundred men rather than a thousand, that Ren crossed Firstwater to Magda's shores. Here again his strategy was not immediately obvious. Instead of taking the hill road leading directly up to the township and thence to the castle his men marched round at the foot IF of the slopes defining the hill -- only when they had formed a full circle around Thirdhill did they begin to ascend. Even then their activity was limited. At the rough contour where the grasslands gave way to the steeper outcrops of gray rock on which the township and castle of Magda stood, they halted and began to prepare their positions as if in readiness for a siege rather than a direct attack. Below the siege line other teams were busy setting up the various engines and devices of Ren's, design and dragging them up the hill to stations at carefully determined points. The sun set on a deceptively quiet scene, the growing glow of campfires spreading out along the side of the hill like a string of bright beads. In only a few places did activity continue after nightfall. Watchers in Castle Magda could have seen little of these secret details, because the devices were still concealed in dead ground and safely out of sight of the castle. The first sign of renewed action came when the fires on the hillside facing firstwater leaped into new life as blocks of pitch and barrels of crude tar were thrown upon them. The lazy breeze from the southwest carried the heavy smoke in the direction of the castle and effectively screened the movements Ren had planned for his secret weapons. These he now deployed forward to occupy positions behind preselected outcrops of rock that would serve to shield them from direct fire. Having relocated the devices to his satisfaction, Ren returned to a safe position to await the coming of first light. Dawn brought the first skirmish. The defenders of Magda, apparently reluctant until now to show their awareness of the army gathered around them, sent out a reconnaissance party to test the strength of the enemy. The Pointed Tails were ready for them. Although Dion-daizan's men bore small muskets of a type similar to those favored by the ill-fated Di Guaard, they were no match for the hail of steel shafts from the crossbows of the society armsmen. The reconnaissance party lost two men and retreated quickly back inside the castle gates. The attackers lost no men at all in the incident and achieved a great improvement in morale. The coming of the early sun brought a slight freshening of the wind, which nevertheless held its prevailing course. This was precisely what Ren had hoped and led naturally into the next phase of his campaign. With the majority of his troops still holding a tight ring around the outer slopes, he again caused certain fires to be made to smoke and, under cover of the dense vapor clouds, he and twenty selected men gained the forward positions where their secret weapons had been sited. The fires were doused at a signal and into the clearing air above the frowning castle a large balloon rose uncertainly, trailing a canister on a rope beneath it. slowly and snagged against a high battlement, its canister dangling against the outer wall. After a time the burning fuse expired and the canister fell outside the wall to explode at its foot. Although the explosive was a native product, its quality was sufficient to make a very creditable bang. In its situation it did no damage, but it was a welcome foretaste of what such a device could do if it fell inside the castle confines. The next balloon was prepared in recognition of the fate of the' first. It rose more swiftly, clearing the battlements with ample margin. The fuse, too, had been altered and made slightly longer and the attackers had the immense satisfaction of seeing the canister plummet from a height and fall squarely inside the castle walls. There was no way to assess what damage the explosion might have caused, but its arrival must certainly have been a trial to the defenders. Much structural damage was not to be expected, but the more sophisticated the defenses, the more they would suffer from casual bombardment. Eight more balloons were released. The first six all delivered their explosive charges somewhere within the castle confines. Although they were subjected to rapid musket fire from inside Magda, the small balls projected by the weaponry were insufficient to damage the balloon fabric in any way that appreciably foreshortened the flight. The seventh balloon was shot down well before it had covered the distance to the castle. Ren fancied that a more powerful weapon, such as a Terran rifle, had been brought to bear on this. The eighth balloon was shot to pieces almost immediately upon release, and Ren and his comrades scarcely escaped with their lives as the canister fell back on top of them. Seeing the growing effectiveness of the defensive measures, Ren decided that the idea had been taken far enough. Under cover of a new wave of smoke he ordered a retreat and made his way back to his now jubilant forces, quite satisfied with the progress he had made. Seven explosive charges had been delivered into Magda and although they would not have caused very much damage to such a massive IF structure, their effect both physical and psychological on the defenders could not have been negligible. Most gratifyingly, all this had been accomplished without the loss of a single man. Meanwhile, Catuul Grass had been visiting the township below the castle. He had found the people fully aware of the situation and anxious about their own lives and property. Catuul had struck a bargain with them -- he would restrict armed offensives to the vicinity of the castle proper if the townsfolk would agree to attempt no action in support of Dion-daizan. His proposal had been rejected until he pointed out the strength of the attacking force and the indefensibility of the scattered conglomeration of buildings of the township. If defied, he had said, he was quite prepared to raze the town by fire. On this point of understanding he had taken his leave, but had not forgotten to post pickets on all paths out of the town as a reminder to the townsfolk that they were not free agents in this time of war. R EN was concentrating now on  moving his men up closer to the castle, so that he could start to use the engines he had brought. The maneuver proved more dangerous than he had calculated. The muskets of Magda proved to have an unexpected range and accuracy -- and at least one high-powered rifle, probably with telescopic sights, was being deployed against his men. His losses were mounting, despite all his efforts at caution and it became obvious that a daylight attack would be suicidal. Reluctantly he retreated to the safety of the seige line and caused his ballistae to be prepared. He had intended the ballistae to be used at shorter range, but he knew that the smaller missiles could be hurled for considerable distances, though the accuracy of range left much to be desired. Fortunatly, knowing of the strength of Magda's walls, he had not intended to try to use brute force to make a breach. Instead he had concentrated primarily on the manufacture of fire bombs. These were earthenware vessels filled with inflammable spirit and ignited by a wick, which would burst and spread a formidable area of flame around the point of impact. Now Ren rearranged the ballistae for maximim effect at a distance and had the smaller fire bombs  segregated ready for loading. The losses his force had sustained earlier in the day weighed heavily on his conscience. With this in mind, he was overcautious about keeping his men well under cover and out of the line of fire. Here he sensed he was failing in his duties as a commander of an aggressive force. He grudgingly acknowleged that he was a merchant concerned with profit and loss rather than life and death and that he placed more faith in the unorthodoxy of his weapons to gain Magda than he did in the power of flesh and bone to storm a castle so well defended. The ballistae functioned well. About sixty per cent of the projectiles actually fell within the walls of Magda. The effect was difficult to gauge, but the persistence of smoke trails long after the spirit would have naturally burned out was evidence that at least some of the fire bombs had ignited combustibles within the castle. He had a mental picture of the vessels smashing against walls and windows and the torrents of flaming spirit being spattered well into the interior of Magda's installations. Apart from a direct hit, it was doubtful whether the practice would do much damage to the personnel, but no organization, however structured, could function without stress in the face of rapid and randomly occurring outbreaks of fire. pressing this newest mode of attack Ren had a visitor. Di Irons, grim and heavy and rustily bearded, pulled himself up the slopes and was guided to the place where Ren was directing operations. The prefect gave the impression of being tired of his world. "If ever a man could name a common cause for all his misfortunes that man is I. And the name of the misfortune is Tito Ren. What are you trying to do, Tito? Set all Anharitte on fire?" "Only Castle Magda -- at the moment. Did you have something on your mind, Prefect?" "The Tyrene attacked again -- the first time in over forty years. It's too much of a coincidence to suspect your hand isn't behind it. Only a historian could have planned a coup like that. Don't you agree?" Ren shrugged blandly. "They always told me the Tyrene pirates were a myth. I may be blamed for interfering with your history, but it seems to be taking the point a bit far to include mythology. Perhaps the ghost of Di Guaard has chased them from the cellars of the dead?" "I'll wager it was some more lively spirit," said Di Irons heavily. "Especially as you canvassed heavily along that shore." "Tell me about their coming," asked Ren innocently. "T'Ampere lost a fortune. To IF protect the chateau itself she had to call back much of the army she had originally sent to the edge of Magda province. They were so late returning that the chateau itself had been overrun in the meantime. The Tyrene took every single thing of value including her considerable treasury, fired the chateau, then retreated to the river. T' Ampere's men tried to give chase but were balked by the fact that you had already acquired all the available boats. To complete her misfortune Dion's men followed those she had called back and have occupied several of T' Ampere's own estates." "Aiee!" shrieked Ren. "And I thought all the action was taking place up here." "Far from it. And I'd advise you not to get too close to T' Ampere in the future. She knows well whom to blame for today's work. Clever you may be, but your ways are rather obvious." "Did you climb all this way just to offer me that advice?" "Not really. I was interested in your progress against Dion. You realize, of course, that your continued presence here is not due ta your own efforts, but due to some reluctance on the part of Dion to swipe you away as one would a fly." "I doubt the truth of that, but I'd be interested in knowing how you come to that conclusion." "It's a factor most of us tend to forget, but one brought well to mind by Dion's occupation of some of T' Ampere's estates today. To us, soldiers are all freemen, mercenaries or armsmen of societies. But even slaves will fight in the service of Dion-daizan -- and today a great many of them fought against T' Ampere. Furthermore, they were both armed and trained. Consider the implication, Tito. Dion can outman your army ten to one any time he chooses and not even feel the strain. And the majority of his men are already outside Castle Magda -- they have you surrounded." "There's been no sign of interference from his men in the province." "Then the fact that he hasn't called on them must mean either that he considers you no threat or that he's confident that his garrison here can deal with you adequately on their own. Your prospects don't look too bright either way." Ren surveyed the sky. The sun was already beginning to draw down on the horizon. "Did you ever think, my Lord, that the Imaiz may not be infallible? When darkness falls I intend to take these ballistae closer so that we can throw even larger jars of flaming spirit inside those walls. No matter how good his defenses, they can't function if they're afire. When the garrison is fully occupied putting out blazes we'll launch our main attack on the gates. If we can manage to # breach even one gate successfully we'll run whole barrels of spirit inside the walls and fire these also. We have the catapults, we have the ramps and we have more than enough combustables to fill Magda with a sea of flame. Are you thinking that Dion can withstand even that?" "It's a good plan and a bold one," said Di Irons grudgingly. "On the face of it, you should succeed. But I'll wager the Imaiz knows every detail of the scheme. If he has not yet moved against you it's because he knows your chances of success are quite remote." "On that point we'll agree to differ. Only the morning will tell which of us was right." "I think you'll find it a long night. And I wish you welcome to it, Tito. This is one night I've no wish to spend on Thirdhill. If I can't persuade you to your senses I'll take my leave. I think tomorrow there'll be many graves to supervise." Ren spared no time in calling together his lieutenants and ensuring that they were all in accord with the details for the coming battle. The ballistae were handed over to teams which had been instructed carefully on both the method and the timing of their use. The general relocation of troops had already begun and every foreseen aspect of the campaign had been fully covered. After a final inspection of the stockpiles of inflammables and the supply lines on which so much of the plan depended Ren gave the final order to proceed. Though no one knew it but himself, he had approached his final moment of decision with mixed feelings. Di Irons was a hard-headed realist, whose knowledge of probabilities in Anharitte was not lightly to be dismissed. Di Irons had predicted that the attack would fail. While Ren did not concur, he had to allow that the prefect's opinion was based on lifelong experience in Anharitte and carried a great deal of weight. Ren was not one to dismiss informed opinion lightly, and to underestimate Dion-daizan could be fatal. Because he and Catuul were to join the selected armsmen who were to make the attack on the main gates, Ren and the scribe made a circuituous journey first west and then north to a point well below the township where part of the atIF tacking party was mustering. Here were men fresh into the field, having just arrived up the Magda Road where they had been encamped as a reserve. They had completed their journey on time and Catuul was pleased to find that everything was in excellent order. The close warmth of the early night was beginning to fade as the assembled troop moved off up the ragged road that followed the upward slope between the dark ridges of the hill. The prognosis for the attack was promising. Ren had handpicked men fresh to the battle and backed up by the small carts carefully laden with more than sufficient inflammables to fire the castle. Even Catuul was beginning to feel that the operation must succeed. The wheels of the carriers' carts which regularly used this route had worn shallow grooves into the granite of the underlying rocks. In the moonless light from the Rim sky Ren found these furrows a useful guide to his feet and presenting a surface certainly more congenial to walk upon than the broken roughness of the rest of the road. About fifty men were ahead of him and as many following. In the true tradition of the societies the whole column moved silently, neither singing nor talking, their soft steps giving no indication that an army was on the march. Even the wheels of the little carts had been muffled. Ren found their quietness almost eerie. He was acutely conscious of the sound of his own boots on the hard underfooting. tastrophe was the more terrifying because it lacked any warning and because many of those who died did so with scarcely time to raise a shocked scream to their lips before they were destroyed. From somewhere out of the darkness a giant boulder, roughly spherical, plunged from a high place and thundered with sickening momentum between the cheeks of the road. Such was its force and unexpectedness that the first part of the column was crushed before the men had time to realize the nature of the thing which had leaped upon them. Comprehension of the nature of the threat was accompanied by a wild scramble by those following to climb the banks to avoid being mashed. Weighing many hundred tons, the boulder had been finely calculated to fit the contours of the road without becoming embedded in the banks. Its trajectory must have been set for maximum effect in this precise application. Certainly its release from a place of rest on an adjacent hillside was no accident, but even the authors of the misfortune could scarcely have hoped for such a truly devastating effect. The boulder went straight through the column of marching men, grinding flesh and bone alike into the dust. Even the frail carts at the rear were crushed completely, together with the patient animals and the men who held their reins. The only ones who were spared were those who were quick enough to breakformation and climb the bank in time to save theniselves. Aghast, Ren rose from the side of the bank where he had thrown himself and tried to estimate the severity of the damage. At least thirty were dead and as many more injured. The enormity of the damage and its improbable swiftness robbed him of words. The impact of that one great stone somehow symbolized all he had been told of the wrath of the Imaiz. In abstract such anger had been something to face with equanimity -- translated into crushed flesh and shattered bones, its aspect assumed a far more daunting hue. The rumble of the boulder still traveling down the distant slopes was audible above the cries of the injured. Ren was sick on the spot. Catuul Gras had taken command while Ren attempted to draw himself out of his shock. Already messengers had been sent to fetch help and sick-wagons for the injured. The fit men had been drawn aside and counted and lost weapons were replaced by arms taken from the dead. In battle the Pointed Tails remained practical to the last. "Friend Tito, we're ready to proceed." The scribe was sympathetic toward Ren's condition, but knew the whole battle was lost if the commander faltered. Ren, feeling the true pains of responsibility for the massacre of so many of those he had hired, would have preferred to have retired from the fight at that point. It had once more been driven home to him that he was a merchant, not a soldier, and that fighting was only a part of a commander's burden -- the other part was the acceptance of death, his own and those of his men. This was one aspect of making war that had never been made apparent to him in books. At the back of his mind the clear voice of conscience reminded him that those who had died had given their lives for the maintenance of the freetrade principle -- but the benefits of the principle's survival would go almost entirely to the nameless outworld moguls who controlled the strings of interstellar trade. Catuul's men had died in the service of someone else's greed. IF R EN pulled himself together sud denly. The realities of the situation became brutally clear. Whatever the morality, he was already committed. There could be no turning back. "I'm with you, Catuul. Have you sent for reinforcements?" "No. But we'll be joining the rest of the party at the township. That'll have to be enough. They'll have extra combustibles also." The remaining element of the troop continued with the march. Heeding the lesson so desparately learned, they broke file and walked high on the banks above the road in case a second boulder should follow the first. To their right the hill rose steeply into the blackness of a coniferous wood perched precariously high against the towering skyline and it was a reasonable certainty that those responsible for launching the boulder were still up there among the trees. Catuul called for scouts and sent them ahead up the bank to ascertain what dangers might still be lurking. Ten minutes later a minor landslide heralded something rolling down the slopes. Cautious investigation revealed the bodies of the scouts with their throats cut. They had been rolled back down to rejoin their comrades. At no time had there been any sight of or sound from the hidden enemy, and Catuul viewed the road ahead with considerable apprehension. Ren decided on a detour. His reasoning was that their progress along this particular road had been anticipated and the route would probably contain several further traps. If they struck a new path across country they might encounter nothing more than random patrols. Catuul agreed and the party made a wide detour that much later fetched it to the road at the entrance to the township. Here the rest of the attackers were waiting -- and listening to an agitated messenger who had been unable to locate Catuul in the darkness. The messenger held a long and involved conversation with Catuul and repeatedly pointed beyond Magda to where Ren was beginning to discern a broad area of light in the sky. Finally Catuul approached him to report. "Some of the ballistae are in trouble. Dion used cannon to knock a couple of them out. He had also managed to project some sort of incendiary into two of our stockpiles. The fires you see are our own emplacements burning." "Have we still enough ballistae to set Magda afire?" "Easily enough. We've seven left and even three would be adequate." "Then let them commence firing. The quicker we can move now, the more surely we can win. Are we ready to assault the castle gates?" "The men are ready. We're waiting for some more tar and oil to get through to replace some we lost, but it can follow us later. First we have to get into attack position." "Then let's get on with it," said Ren. "We've still a fair way to go to reach the castle and Dion's obviously expecting us." Soon the sounds of renewed hostilities became loud in the air. The night sky began to echo to the firing of muskets and the occasional roar of cannon. Although nothing was yet to be seen, Ren knew that his ballistae must have already started launching the great spirit jars over Magda's walls. Soon he hoped to see evidence of fires within the castle perched directly above where he now stood. It was necessary that his assault troops moved swiftly into position ready to seize the most advantageous time to breach the gates. Ren began to feel better. His previous horror was soon lost in the preoccupation of renewed activity. The township of Magda was built of streets steeply sloped toward the castle at its head. The inhabitants had wisely stayed inside their houses and behind locked doors -- the streets were deserted save for where Ren's army thronged the lower square. The way ahead up the narrow cobbled street was lit by occasional watch flares which dimly illuminated the way almost to the foot of the castle. Despite the apparent overtness of the action Catuul insisted that a small troop of men go ahead to ensure that no ambush had been laid from the dark alleys that laced the township. Ren felt that his role should have placed him at their head, but he acquiesced to Catuul's more informed objection. Catuul needed men he had trained. The scouting party would be visible right to the top of the hill and could easily exchange signals with the men below. R EN'S decision to remain was  nearly the cause of his immediate death. The square was flanked by buildings formed from the traditional granite of the hills. Without warning -- and by obvious design -- one of these collapsed, its walls falling outward to scatter granite blocks far across the square and on the heads of the unfortunate troops mustered beneath. The nature of the mechanics by which this trick was wrought was not apparent, but its effect was catastrophic. As the walls had begun to bulge Catuul had thrown Ren clear IF and the agent had received merely a startled impression of an apparently solid wall of masonry seeming to become plastic as it bent and twisted outward to engulf a great many of his men. Shaken by his second near escape of the evening, Ren's reaction this time was one of immense anger. He was sure the scheme could not have been devised and executed without the foreknowledge and cooperation of the inhabitants and he charged Catuul to make them pay for their indiscretion as soon as it was light. Meanwhile Ren's own task was becoming increasingly urgent. The scouting party reported by light signals that the way was apparently safe and clear. Leaving fresh dead and wounded to be extricated from the ruins of the building, Ren started up the road, calling for men to follow him to the gates of Magda. Had he given the matter more thought Ren might have been less brave. As he strode ahead he realized that even in the dim flarelight his merchant's costume must have made him conspicuous among the armsmen and rendered him an easy target for a trained sniper. A sharpshooter with a modern electron-optic rifle hidden in one of Magda's towers could have killed him at any moment. From his experience with the balloons Ren was reasonably certain that Dion did possess some of these weapons. He was forced to recognize that he was relying on the Imaiz voluntarily limiting his show of arms to those that would seem to be appropriate to the type of battle being offered. Both he and Dion were playing a game -- a war game carefully dressed to suit the character and background of Anharitte. But at what point would Dion's hand be forced so that he would be playing a game no longer? At some point before he was broken the Imaiz would be forced by the dictates of survival to drop the pretense and reply with whatever weapons he possessed, regardless of their origin or propriety. Or did Dion truly have his boulder and falling-wall technique so well organized that even now he had no fear of the army moving up the sloping street? Halfway up the hill Ren heard a shout from the men above him. He called back, anxious to know what they had found. He was not long left doubting. With a hideous clatter a large wheeled cart, heavily laden with blocks of stone and held unnoticed in some recess, had begun to run down the slope toward him. The very narrowness of the street precluded the escape of all but the lucky as the juggernaut hurtled with ever increasing momentum toward the knot of anguished men. On either side the sleeping houses left neither gaps nor alcoves nor opemdoors through which the men might escape. The width of the cart was nearly three quarters of the width of the road itself and, although it must leave some men unharmed, the trick would be to estimate precisely against which wall one should hug one's self and hope. At one point the cart snagged against brickwork and the iron ' bands of its hubs shot visible sparks into the air and threatened to divert the cart to a stop against the wall. But the vehicle broke free, ran across the road, ricochetted off the other side and centered again on its murderous course. Ren took the only action open to him. Trying to judge the most probable path the vehicle would take, he pressed himself against a wall and prayed. His prayer was not answered. By an apparently willful deviation of its direction the thundering cart moved again across the road and soon was upon him. Even before the flying wheels made contact Ren knew his injury was going to be savage. The weight and speed of the unattended juggernaut left no doubt of the outcome. When it hit him he was going to be crushed. The heavy axle caught his thigh, and he went partly over the shaft and partly between it and the wall. The shock and pain of so grave an injury was mercifully foreshortened by unconsciousness -- but he remembered thinking, as the fringes of darkness closed about him, that with those sort of injuries he would prefer not to live. Some unknown time later he partially awoke -- enough to be conscious of bright flares around him and of an unnatural numbness. He could see Eynes, the surgeon from the spaceport, bending over him, instruments in hand. Somewhere behind the surgeon and barely in focus the red-on-gold emblems of the sickwagon of the Society of Pointed Tails danced in the flickering flames. He could hear Di Irons' voice, but could not see him. Ren tried to concentrate on what was being said. "I'll not let them take him...there's not one society hospital in Anharitte has a chance of repairing that! Eynes cut in plaintively. "We'd need the operating theater facilities of a Stellar Cruiser to save him -- and the nearest must be better than three weeks out." There was another gap in time, then a slight return to consciousness as the whisper of a cushion-craft cut through the enveloping clouds of internal IF darkness. He caught a glimpse of Eynes' face by torchlight, a picture of worried indecision followed by a shrug and a gesture that meant capitulation. Firm hands gently rocked Ren -- next he dimly recognized a pneumatic stretcher that lifted him without movement or dislocation. He experienced a disoriented passage through the air past the bright flames, a moment of unreal eternity he knew he would remember to his death. Then came darkness and a voice like Di Irons' was raging loudly and furiously about his encirclement by fools and villains. Then nothing -- a long, long nothing. He struggled from time to time to break through into consciousness and almost succeeded, only to be defeated by something circulating in his bloodstream. The only thing Ren felt with certainty was that he had not died. G radually he awoke fully. He was in a bed under sheets of clinical whiteness. Though' he feared to explore his condition, the form beneath the fabrics assured him he had not lost his legs. The room was a curved white cocoon, more aseptic and more expensively appointed than any hospital room of his experience. The bulk of smooth equipment at his bedside told of the continuous monitoring of his condition by medical computers. A door opened and a tall Ahhn nurse began deftly to remove the electrodes taped to his wrists and chest and forehead. "Welcome back to the land of the living, Agent Ren. How are you feeling?" In an agony of apprehension Ren began to explore himself. A wave of immense relief brought an incredulous smile to his lips. "I -- I'm still complete?" It was a statement as much as a question. She looked at him sagely. "You've lost a bit of weight, but you'll soon get that back with exercise. You can start getting out of bed today." "You mean I'm healed?" Ren's voice ran high. By way of answer she whipped the sheeting from the bed and left him naked to judge for himself. Deep and unfamiliar scars showed just how extensive had been the surgery, yet the flesh was already whole and firm and without unfamiliar sensation except for a slight tingle at the scar-tissue sites. "You were lucky," she said. "No great internal complications. Your hip bone's partly plastics now, but I doubt if you'd ever have known it if you'd not been told." "But -- how long have I been here?" "A little over a month." She was amused at his consternation. "You've been kept in mediconsuspension. The healing rate is increased by not having the body constantly in conflict with the psyche. And with a rest from life of that duration, you'll be amazed at how simple your problems have become." Ren had heard of the technique of this medicon-suspension. Computer-aided instrumentation would have taken over control of his subconscious body processes, and his brain would have been allowed to rest. With the computerenhanced control of his body, a surgeon could promote healing and regrowth at rates otherwise not possible. His body, too, would not have suffered atrophy due to prolonged disuse. The method came from the forefront of medical research on the prime worlds -- even there it was available only to the very fewwho could afford it. Ren felt good. For the First time in his life he felt completely rested and able to encounter whatever might come with a rational and unclouded approach. As the nurse had said, it was amazing how simple his problems had become. He felt as if he were born anew. "Where am I?" he asked. He knew the answer but wanted confirmation. "In Magda, of course." The nurse had a way of speaking which reminded him of Zinder. He watched her carefully. She was an example of pure Ahhn stock, yet fully reconciled to the levels of an outworld technology. The result was impressive. Added to her native attributes were a confidence and a competence which foreshadowed a proud and sane mastery of the future. Ren caught her arm lightly as she reached to disconnect equipment and turned her wrist towards him to see the Madga slave-mark indelibly written in her fine skin. But a greater truth was also written there. Diondaizan's wizardry was a far more potent force than magic. Now he thought about it, his repair and skilled recovery could only have been due to the resources of the man he had set out that night to attack. On all Roget only Diondaizan could conceivably have installed such a facility. The notion made Ren feel slightly sick with himself. Love thine enemy was an old creed to which Ren had not strongly subscribed. Nurse thine enemy back to health with dexterous and expensive skills was a modern extension of the idea and one that made Ren, the recipient, feel very humble indeed. IF Dion could have left the gates of Magda closed and left his enemy to die on the cold cobblestones of Thirdhill. No one would have thought worse of the Imaiz for it. Yet some humanitarian instinct must have prompted Dion to take Ren in and give him a degreeof medical attention unobtainable elsewhere in this sector of the galaxy. By this action Dion had revealed his true stature. Thanks to the effectiveness of his subconscious rehabilitation, Ren felt very little discomfort when he first attempted to get out of the bed. He found his balance lacking, but was able to stand and walk without much difficulty. Considering the extent of the injuries which had brought him down, he knew he had been incredibly lucky. The Ahhn nurse was patient but firm. After a couple of hours of tests and exercises she declared herself satisfied with his recovery. "You may dress in your own clothes now, Agent Ren. Later Dion-daizan wants to see you." "I wish to see him, too," said Ren. "I owe him a great deal. But for being admitted here, I should probably have died." She did not contest the statement, but busied herself in an anteroom dismantling and cleaning the equipment. X Magda was a failure?" "Failure!" Her amusement carried even though he could not see her. "You never stood a chance. We had a ring of anti-personnel mines out there that could have destroyed every man you had. And we've everything here from laser rifles to high-velocity flame throwers. But you had organized a peasants' attack, so Dion followed suit. A few things rolled down a hill were all that was necessary to contain you. Take my advice, Agent Ren, and stick to trade. It'll be a long time before there's a force on Roget able to better Dion in a fight of any kind." Ren dressed, walked to the window and found himself looking out from a position high on Magda's edge. The view ran straight down the valley that divided Firsthill from Secondhill. Small ships were passing through the shipping lanes to and from the great Aprillo river. From this point of vantage Ren's traders eye could appreciate the vast potential of Anharitte as a landport and as a galactic trading center. In his imagination he rebuilt the already insufficient dock basin and planned a city more modern but just as picturesque and even more colorful on Firsthill. Almost without knowing it he had begun to identify himself with Anharitte and its inhabitants. Local idiosyncrasies were becoming a secret source of pride to him. It was the one place in the universe he wanted to think of as home. He wondered if Dion-daizan had looked from a similar window and reached a similar respect for this city built on the three hills. Ren's resolution was simple now. He was too much in sympathy with Dion's objectives to oppose the wizard further. He was determined to resign from the company and remain in Anharitte. This need not affect his future too much. There were freelance trading prospects on Roget whose potential had scarcely been touched. And if these failed he might even seek employment with Dion himself. His only fear was that the Imaiz might not feel disposed to give him the opportunity to remain. Obviously, from the medical care which had been lavished on him, Dion was not going to exercise his rights over the vanquished and have him executed. But Ren realized he had been a considerable nuisance to the Imaiz and he doubted that Dion would suffer him to remain on the planet. "Agent Ren, the Imaiz will see you now." The nurse had returned and was waiting to escort him. Somehow the slave mark on her wrist no longer seemed incongruous. He saw it now more as a symbol of application and dedication. Dedication to what? The future, perhaps. But training her to such a pitch was no ordinary achievement. It was a measure of Dion's genius. Nobody had ever acquired skills like hers under the coercion of a whip. He followed her, hoping to get a glimpse of more of Magda's secrets. He was not disappointed. In the corridor he passed the doors of two more hospital rooms and what appeared to be a biomedical laboratory, all staffed with Ahhn nurses and technicians. The end of the corridor brought him back into what was recognizable part of the old castle. The sudden transition from the aseptically clinical to the dark medieval was only a foretaste of the metamorphoses to come. tablished high in one of the great flanking towers of Magda. Ren descended some stairs and each level he came to presented to him a tantalizing glimpse of some different technological microcosm. He could hear machine rooms and catch occasional snatches of electronic noise or the smell of chemicals, perhaps from a laboratory. The complexity of pipes and power cables accommodated in the IF stair well emphasized just how certainly he had underestimated Dion's potential. Ren was seeing a technical and industrial complex built in miniature, but having a manufacturing Scope probably unequaled outside of one of the prime worlds. As he passed along the lower corridors a suspicion grew in Ren's mind. His guide was surely giving him a brief tour of selected parts of the establishment. He surmised that its purpose was to provide him with a more realistic idea of what he would be facing should he again take up arms against the House of Magda -- it was also a possible prelude to his pending interview with Dion himself. Ren took the lesson to heart and found a logical extension. These handpicked and educated slaves of Magda were the new heirs to Anharitte. They would be the spearhead of a cultural revolution so formidable that the slave system, the societies -- and even Di Irons and the City Fathers -- were already anachronisms. The marvelous thing about the whole affair was the care that had been taken not to let the old institutions know that they were already dead. The real question at issue was: how bloody would Dion-daizan allow his revolution to become? Knowledge was power, and Dion seemed to be a specialist in imparting knowledge. Was he also a specialist in controlling this new force he had created? At the moment he was working with a close-knit team and his control of the situation was absolute. But when a wider dissemination of the knowledge came about, as inevitably it must, was Dion big enough still to hold the reins of power? If he were not, then what would be the cost in terms of loss of life and damage to the essential character of Anharitte? Magda was built with an outer ward and an inner one containing the great keep. The keep was lower but considerably more massive than the towers of any of the other castles on the three hills. As he crossed the inner ward Ren was interested to note many signs of burning and explosion -- these must have been the result of his own recent activities. In a way he was gratified to find that his excursion into improvised weaponry had had such a powerful result. He has obviously stood no chance against Dion-daizan, but had he attacked Di Guaard, for instance, he would probably have won. The notion amused him and he immediately began to feel better about the coming interview. On the ground floor of the keep he passed through a communications center. In it was a powerful the size of the limited spaceport probably capable of making direct contact with Terra itself. Suddenly it was no mystery to Ren as to what had happened to the Ranee ships. Direct intervention by the forces of the Galactic Federation had stopped them in midflight. Doubtless here was the instrument that had broadcast the alarm. This consideration placed the galactic standing of the Imaiz in a new light. Only prime world governments could afford to build and these units were leased only to those -- like space transportation companies -- who had good claim to on-line communication links across the distances of space. Dion's acquisition of such an instrument as this suggested the involvement of outworld planetary governments in the affairs of Magda. Rather than being an adventurer, there was a strong implication that Diondaizan was an agent for the Galactic Federation itself. Ren's previous misjudgment of the situation bad been so absolute that he was now incapable of being surprised further. Catuul's attempts to disrupt the Imaiz s estates were made pathetic by radio-telephone links extending widely over provincial Magda. On-line data links coupled to a powerful computer registered and monitored every aspect of the estates' growing and marketing activities. Even the farm-stock prices in the capital city of Gaillen were automatically updated every second. Dion's knowledge of the overall picture of Roget's outspace commerce was also something that would have made Ren scream in his sleep had he known of it previously. All transactions made through the spaceport communications terminal received an immediate printout in Magda. There still existed an on-line access to all the information contained in the spaceport data banks. A further display of commercial and technological prowess was a broad screen for viewing ship movements on Firstwater -- the image of every vessel moved across the screen, accompanied by computer-generated comment on the origin, destination, value and nature of its cargo. were high up in the keep. Ren knocked and was bidden to enter. The chamber into which he came was large and nearly circular, occupying almost the whole area of the level of the keep. The walls IF from ceiling to floor were lined with books and broken only by narrow windows. Furnishings were sparse and consisted mainly of low wooden stools and the broad desk at which sat the wizard of Anharitte. "Come in, Agent Ren -- be seated. They tell me your recovery is going well." "Miraculous is the word," said Ren. "I can't thank you enough. But for you and whoever did the surgery I would certainly have died." "The surgeon, yes -- " Dion's eyes twinkled with humor. "He's aged twenty-two and is a native of Anharitte. I bought him as a lad for four barrs. His price was cheap because he wasn't strong enough to carry wood. Still I think it was I who gained the bargain." "You don't need to spell it out," said Ren, "I was convinced of the effectiveness of your policy the first day I saw Zinder in the market." "Yet you continued to oppose me?" "I did. The liberalization of Anharitte appeared inconsistent with the principles of Freetrade. As an agent of the Company I was committed to uphold the Freetrade principle." Dion-daizan sat back in his chair and interleaved his fingers. Clad in a simple white gown, he might have been the high-priest of a halfhundred religions. But the quiet certainty in his eyes belonged to no fanatic. "You're a man both of perception and principle," said Dion. "I like that." He leaned over to a communicator on the desk. "Ask Director Vestevaal to join us." "The director is here?" "Certainly he's here. He and I have been working while you've been sleeping these several weeks. We've been hammering out a formula to solve our mutual problems." Magno Vestevaal was in fine form. He greeted Ren jubilantly, inquired about his injuries, then turned back to Dion-daizan. "Well, Dion, what do you think of him?" "Much as before," said Dion. "After all, our dossier on him was pretty complete from the moment he was assigned to Roget. The only thing we missed was his profound talent for destruction. Since his coming Anharitte has never been quite the same." "What's going on?" demanded Ren, looking from the director to the Imaiz and back again. The director eased himself onto a corner of the Imaiz s desk and turned to Ren confidentially. "It was the ancient problem, Tito. The irresistible force versus the immovable object: Dion's irresistible climate of social change versus our intractable need for a freeport in this sector of the galaxy." # Tm familiar with the problem," said Ren guardedly. "But it doesn't have a solution." "It does, Tito -- and I've found it. A stroke of commercial genius even if I say it myself. I'd like you to meet a new director of the company -- Dion-daizan." "A director?" "Dion's now a major shareholder in the company and he has been appointed director of sector operations. Don't you see the beauty of it. What he does with his social revolution is no longer our concern. Dion himself is now committed to the principle of maintaining freetrade in Anharitte." Ren felt suddenly bitter. "I can see where the company stands to gain, but I never thought Dion would sell out the Ahhn for money -- " He turned to the Imaiz accusingly. "Peace, Tito!" Dion-daizan held up a cautioning hand. "Your emotions do you credit, but there's been no sell-out. Freedom and Freetrade are merely different aspects of the same idea of liberty. To assume that they're opposed is a political artifice. It's a fallacy adopted by inept governments to secure an income to which they have no moral title. I always intended the freetrade principle to apply to Anharitte. As I recall, it was you who invented the schism." "I?" "And think -- if I had been genuinely opposed to freetrade do you suppose I would not have removed you as expeditiously as I dispatched the Butcher of Turais?" "So you think you can integrate the two?" asked Ren. Here were new possibilities for his mind to explore. "On many levels I can see how it would work -- but there could be a few fundamental obstacles. For a start I don't see where the societies would fit into the pattern." "The societies will have to adapt -- but then, they're very good at adaptation. They already provide a nucleus of social services, which happily can be expanded. And insurance is an untapped field on Roget. I could almost envy the societies their future." Dion's air of authority was pervasive. He spoke as if the future were under his control. "Who are you?" asked Ren suddenly. Dion-daizan grinned broadly. "The wizard of Anharitte, of course." "He's pulling your leg," said Vestevaal. "He's a Terran socioIF logical engineer provided by the Galactic Federation at the request of the planetary government of Roget. His job is to nurse an essentially feudal society through five hundred years of technological backlog -- without its blowing apart or losing its identity." Ren considered this in silence for a long time, then: "When did you find this out. Director?" "Unfortunately not till I'd returned from Terra with the Imaiz's contract already signed in my pocket. Dion actually let me conclude the deal before he admitted that what I was buying would have been given freely anyway. In short, he's an even bigger rogue than I. It's a good thing he's now on our side. We didn't do so well with him in opposition." "And where does this place me?" asked Ren finally. "With Dion in this theater, the company scarcely needs an agent here." "My thoughts entirely," said Vestevaal. "In fact I welcomed the chance to take you to Freetrade Central. I wanted to initiate you into the intrigues necessary to maintain a seat on the council. However, Dion has another proposition. He wants you to remain in Anharitte as his personal assistant." "On company affairs?" "Only partially. He also wants you to assist with his program of technical and social reforms. It seems the reputation you have built as Agent Ren, coupled with your deep understanding of the Ahhn, gives you the unique ability to serve as a bridge between the two cultures. Both sides know and trust you -- and that's a valuable asset indeed. Take a day or two to think it over." "I don't need a day or two," said Ren. "I had already decided to stay in Anharitte. If Dion will have me. I'm his man. I'm sorry about your plans for me. Director -- but I think you understand how I feel." "No apology necessary, Tito. A few years younger and faced with the same choice, I might even have made the same decision. Anharitte is a place that grows on you. But as it is, I've chosen to take something of Anharitte with me instead." "Something?" "I should say say 'someone.' It's a sign of the changing times. Dion's manumission bill is going through and he's releasing Zinder from her bond. She and I are to be married on Terra. Then she'll work with me at Freetrade Central. What do you think of that?" "With a combination of the two of you manipulating the Freetrade Council," said Ren, "I don't think even the merchant worlds will stand a chance."  ( Continued from page # ) between science fiction and fantasy (both, I feel, are sf) and also says that the impossible is not acceptable. I wonder what the criteria are for judging what is impossible. A definition that states that science fiction is not concerned with the impossible seems to rule out many types of story: the various "doomsday syndrome " stories such as Stand on Zanzibar -- who ever heard of mans trying to survive on an Earth that had standing room only? Taking the A's in my sf index: Aldiss' Randy's Syndrome -- is that conceivably possible? More to the point, can we possibly consider that Asimov s Nightfall could exist in our physical universe? If you do think so read Asimovs essay on the planet of the double sun in Fact and Fancy ( Doubleday ). Taking the Alpha Centauri binary as his example he says that Sun B would re(roughly the orbit of Uranus) and seeing that Alpha Centauri B is # miles in diameter it should have the apparent diameter of Jupiter as seen from Earth . True, Sun B would be # times as bright as the full moon, but this is still I #th as bright as Sun A. Now, Nightfall presupposes a world of six suns, each of which is a disk (the smallest. Beta, is said to be chipped on one side). Obviously the suns must be crowded into an area of space less than ronment certainly doesn't strike me as "rational. " The question of what is possible brings up a pet theory of mine. It goes: l ) The universe is infinite in extension in both time and space. #) In an infinite universe everything is possible, given natural laws, but who knows the sum total of natural laws? #) Therefore everything must happen. I find myself having to face certain problems. If everything must happen -- what is fiction? And if God is allowed for by the totality of natural laws He cannot exist on at least one fragment of the universe, but must exist on another. Cy Chauvin speculated on the purpose of sf. I think the most generally accepted message in the genre is predictive, while del Rey sees it as presenting alternatives. There is a difference, obviously. I believe Chauvin finally said that the medium has no overall purpose beyond the presentation of thoughtprovoking ideas and good tales. I must agree with that, for it embraces both the predictive functions and the expression of alternatives of the genre. For me sf is an omnibus genre -- it includes science fiction, science fantasy, speculative fiction, speculative fantabu lation, swordandsorcery (one word ) and so on. Until someone comes up with a term that covers all our genre I will differentiate by keeping sf strictly different in meaning from Science Fiction per se. Deryk Ashby Victoria # Australia Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Here is a copy of my letter to Mrs. Weiss in reply to her query in If, October f # . "... I read your letter in the October issue of If. The story you inquired IF about is by Fred Saberhagen and is called The Long Way Home. It appeared in Galaxy, Number #, Volume # , #, June '#, published by Galaxy Publishing Corporation. "Your account is inaccurate in one respect -- the people are not left undisturbed at the end. " You may be interested to know that Poul A nderson also wrote a story ( quite different ) with this title, published in Astounding as a'serial in # (British edition). "I hope you are successful in obtaining a copy of the story. I hope this information is also of use to your other readers. Keep up the good work! Steve Smith Essex, England Dear Mr. Jakobsson: With the current trend of weird, farout science fiction stories it's a rare joy to read a good old-fashioned space adventure such as Gods on Olympus, by Stephen Tall (If Oct. '#). His detailed buildup of characters and ship with the appropriate name of Stardust makes me wonder if he might be planning more adventures for the crew and ship. Currently the only ones who still consistently write good sf adventures are A. Bertram Chandler and John Rackham. Chuck Burdett Palmdale, California Stephen Tall is working on a new Stardust novelette -- you should be seeing it shortly. The Stardust series has been running consistently in both Galaxy and If Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I am very pleased with January '# Galaxy. This is the second issue I've read after an absence from the field of about three years. I remember Galaxy as the aristocrat of science fiction magazines -- it still is. If, however, has changed. The stories in the December issue were excellent -- there wasn't one I didn't enjoy. However, your feature department is small and I miss a good editorial -- also the If Firsts that used to be marked plainly and be accompanied by a brief biography of the author. Nichola Grimshawe Ontario, Canada Teratohippus, by Robert L. Davis, one of the excellent stories you enjoyed in the December issue, was an If First. It has enjoyed top reader comment. Both If and Galaxy are as active as ever in launching new authors -- and we do mean to launch them. It's sometimes a disservice both to the author and the magazine to label a story a "first." We currently have something better under discussion for writers who select us to publish their best first work -- you may expect an announcement shortly. Subscribers Please Note If you change your address, please mail notification to: L. C. Murphy , Manager If Fulfillment Dept. I # Secatogue A venue Farmingdae, N. Y. # Allow # to # weeks for your notification to take effect. # Ea jt # # Street New York. N Y I #I # FI #O# pur word  including nemo and mddrmsa). #-word minimum. Pay moot with ordar. ill magazines. Arkham House, Fantasy Press. Lovecraft Florida State Christian College. Post Office Box #B#. Fort Lauderdale. Florida #. authors. Shocking fiction, uncensored opinions, outra#. Portland. OR #. matches your needs, qualifications with entrance criG. Box #. Cleveland. Ohio #. #. free. Autosuggestion, Box #-GY. Olympia. Longview. Washington #. Washington #I . #I . Stanwood. Washington #. book Dianetics: Modern Science of Mental Health by L. Ron Hubbard has an applied philosophy to show you how. Send # to Bookstore-IF, Founding Church of Scientology. # #th St... N.W., Washington. D.C. #. tion radio programs are now available on tape. #" Oklahoma #. # Australia. Waldwick. New Jersey #. audience of # readers. Broad range of classifications. Regular and Display. Order now for fast results. Ruth Conklin, # E. #, New York, N.Y. #. (#) MU #-#. rent issue features Silverberg. Pohl. Bradbury. White. For more than a decade, X Minus I ranked among the most popular shows ever to hit the air-waves. Starting soon, many radio stations will once again be featuring this famed drama series adapted from stories appearing either in Broadcasting will be resumed with new the foremost names in science fiction. X Minus I will thrill you, reward you, more than ever. So watch for it. Listen to it. Enjoy it! For further information, contact your local station or write to: Box # Seymour, Conn. # mmm the science fiction equivalent of the Oscar -- presented every year at The World Science Fiction Convention. But you needn't trust the judges., judge for yourself. Form your own opinions about Arthur C. Clarke's superb story, "The Star; and Jack Vance's devastating classic, "The Dragon Masters!' and Poul Anderson's award-winner, No Truce With Kings; plus # more. They span more than a decade of writers...and present light-years of imagination for your mind to play with. So go ahead...play. This fabulous #-page anthology of speculative fiction sells for I # in the original publisher's edition. It's yours, if you wish, as one of # books for just #C (to help cover shipping) when you join the Science Fiction BookClub. As a member you'll be offered other equally exciting books -- to build your own award-winning science fiction library -- at a fraction of the regular bookstore cost. Here's how the Club works: You'll receive the club s colorful bulletin which will keep you informed of superb new works. Though these hard-cover books may sell for as much as # and up, you pay only the with trial membership special low price of # plus shipping and handling. (Occasional extra-value selections are slightly more.) So join the Science Fiction Book Club now. We II start you off with # books for just #. Send no money. But do send the coupon today. Dept. CL-# Garden City, N Y. # Please accept my application for membership in the Science Fiction Book Club and send me the # books whose numbers I have written in the boxes below. Bill me just # (to help cover shipping) for all # About every # weeks, send me the club's bulletin, "Things to Come',' describing the # coming Selections and a variety of Alternate choices If I wish to receive both Selections, I need do nothing; they will be shipped to me automatically Whenever I don't want I of the # Selections or prefer an Alternate, or no book at all, I will notify you by the date specified by returning the convenient form always provided I need take only # Selections or Alternates during the coming year, and may resign any time thereafter Most books are only I #, plus a modest charge for shipping and handling. Occasionally, extra-value Selections are slightly higher. entire introductory package within # days Membership will be cancelled I owe nothing I i I I "l Miss Please Print Address City. I State Zip  I I # Dune by Frank Herbert Celebrated winner of Hugo and Nebula. Gripping tale of family exiled from their private planet to another, a barren desert Pub ed. # # Again, Dangerous Visions, Harlan Ellison, ed Forty-six pieces, short stories  novels. Explicit scenes and language may be offensive to some. Pub ed. # #I The # Annual World's Best Science Fiction, ed by Donald A Wollheim Volume IV contains # ems from Clarke, turgeon, and more Spec Ed. #I The Foundation Trilogy by Isaac Asimov The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed # # # The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov The master's first novel in # years and worth the wait for a fabulous trip to the year # Pub. ed # # # Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners!' chosen by Sci-Fi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub ed # # # The Ice People by Rene Barjavel. Great French bestseller, prize winning novel of discovery of prehistoric man and woman, who come to life! Pub ed # # # The Early Asimov by Isaac Asimov. # previously uncollected early stories by the most famous name in science fiction. Pub. ed # # The Hugo Winners, Vol.T  II. Giant #-in-l volume of # award-winning stories # to # Asimov introduces each Pub ed # #I The Dancer From Atlantis by Poul Anderson. Four people from different ages and cultures -- are catapulted by a time machine back to # B.C Fascinating mixture of history, myth and imagination Spec Ed. # Childhood's End by Arthur C. Clarke Mankind's last generation on earth "Wildly fantastic!" Atlantic. Pub ed # # # A Treasury of Great Science Fiction, ed. by Anthony Boucher # Volume set # pages Counts as one book Pub ed # # The Science Fiction Book Club offers its own complete, hardbound editions, sometimes altered in size to fit special presses and save members even more Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto Offer slightly different in Canada WORLDS OF Sidney J. Van Scyoc Dean McLaughlin The first two novels in Stunning Riverworld Trilogy! tSE. A.XJ-T#. # BonV e,o "An imaginative science fiction novel... set in an unfamiliar barren land... Intellectually challenging." -- Pwfelishers Weekly. "Intriguing and ingenious." -- Library Journal. "A fascinating, exciting book." -- St. Louis PostDispatch. "I couldn't put it down." -- Minneapolis Tribune. Winner of the # Hugo Award Putnam edition, # Berkley paperback, # "A wild romp across a landscape that Hieronymous Bosch might have dreamed up... Clever, fast-moving, and really different." -- Publishers Weekly. "An intriguing, multi-charactered novel set on the planet Riverworld where all humanity has been reborn." -- The Booklist. "A highly imaginative story." -- Boston Globe. Putnam edition, # Berkley paperback, # From your bookseller, or order direct from the publisher. lison Avenue, New York, N.Y. # Barry Malzberg finds the institutional church deaf to the trumpets of the Apocalypse. But for Raymond Jones all the lions of Rome can't stop the "new men" of Trelawney's World. With Clancy O'Brien Christianity comes up from its sewage chamber chapel for full-screen entertainment. While George Smith finds Christianity compatible with Vertality according to the Mark #B. Dean Koontz sees a sinless child contaminated. Raylyn Moore sees a mountain mystic electrocuted. Gail Kimberly sees centaurs; Roger Lovin, winged boatmen; Leigh Brackett, gentle Hywl; Thomas Scortia, the Wandering Jew. Ten farsighted authors see humans and aliens and believable peoples in search after a common language... As the Lorsii asked the Apostle, "What means this 'wrong'?" (#-#), # each. Add # per dollar for postage and handling. I enclose  "  oorvcoRDia  Oept.#B j Address City State WelDS OF Vot.#,No. #I laauaiee Arnold E. Abramson, Publisher Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Theodore Sturgeon, Contributing Editor Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Meneging Editor Lester del Rey, Feeture Editor L C. Murphy, Subscription Director Jey Tunick, Circulation Director Clifford D. Simak # Dean McLaughlin # Worlds of IF is published bimonthly by ary of Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation. Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main Offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Single copy: #e. #-issue subscription: S.OO in U.S., # elsewhere. Worlds of IF is published in the United Kingdom by Universal-Tandeni Publishing Company. Ltd., # Gloucester Road, London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson, Chairman of the Board. Ralph Stokes, Managing Director. Single copy: #p. #-issue subscription in the United Kingdom: #. Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. The publishers assume no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in U.S.A. Th paper time machlna also a tool: a time machine that enables you to replay the crucial events -- past, present, and future -- that shape our lives. Now, instead of merely reading about what's happening, you can explore and experience the alternatives and decision points through the technique of Conflict Simulation. What ia ConflicI Simulallon? Conflict Simulation is a way of analyzing a political or military conflict situation. A way that is as intellectually stimulating as a game of chess, and as thorough as a written analysis. Through the use of the Conflict Simulation (or "game") format, the conflict situation is re-created -- so that you are in a position to make the vital decisions and, in the game at least, change the way things were, are, or will be. What you got ed bi-monthly. Each issue contains;  A ready-to-play conflict-simulation game with a # X # " playing surface, die-cut playing pieces, and complete rules. A An analytical article on the same subject as the game in that issue. it Other feature articles on historical and military subjects.  Game and book reviews, commentary on existing games, and discussions of subscribers' questions. The magazine is #  pages long, and all material is handled in a highly organized (and easily understandable) graphic format. bat in Western Europe, #). We also publish a separate line of conflictsimulation games, which you will find listed in the coupon. Free to now eubacritiora battle presented in a game-design specially created to introduce new readers to Conflict Simulation. Send check or M O. to: Slmulatlene Pubileatiena Inc. Oept. #BI # Ewt #rd St., Nm York. N.Y. # Please enter my subscription to S. S T. for: I Year(#issues)-# # Yrs. (# issues)-S# # Yrs. (# issues)# Current issue S# Send me the following Simulation Games;  Kursk (Russia. #)-S# r Koras (#-S#)-# r Phalanx (ancient Greece)-# r Barbaroaaa (Russia. #l-#S)-# r Uipxi (Napoleonic Wars. #)-#  Normandy (the O-Oay lnvaslon)-'#  Please send mo your free brochure. Address City State.Zip n,'rit( ,ind wfofUj Dear Mr, Jakobsson: Vm beginning to believe you have a particular taste for sf stories dealing with androids and! or cyborgs, because  find a high percentage of such stories in both Galaxy Magazine and Worlds of If. The February issue of If contains two of that kind: The Never Girl and Ghosts. And surprisingly to me) both were on the better side of mediocre, most stories of that kind today, when almost every aspect of the general field has been explored barely short of the point of diminishing returns, being mediocre. Rarely are any as original or interesting as those by Michael Coney and Robert Young in this issue. Although a lot of the history provided to us in the footnote in The Never Girl seemed unbelievable as far as necessity andjor logical or likely consequences are concerned, it was indeed a fascinating treatment of the general field known to many as the new biology. And Ghosis was just long enough for its uniqueness to hold interest until the end. But the best story in the magazine by far was Clifford Simaksi Contraction Shack. Written by cfi man who is probably one of the twenty all-time greatest writers of sf in the world, a Simak story is always good and usually among the best. His story in this issue of If was one of the latter. Pluto itself is probably the most intriguing of all the known planets, being, as Simak brings out so well in his story, at the outermost rim of the solar system. And Simak exploited its mystery as few other sf writers could do. I was expecting a different outcome of the explorers investigation -- something on the order of their discovering that the aliens who built Pluto were originally the guardians of the universe, similar to the Watchers from The Fantastic Four, with sentries in each galaxy and one in every star system (not solar system; theres only one Sol). But I wasnt disappointed at the real revelation at the end of the story. And the only other flaw in the piece was the overemotionalism of the expedition s leader after he found out how his creators had ( Continued on page I # ) IF Great new science-fiction titles from... World renowned ghosthunter perhaps the greatest living authority on parapsychological phenomena, combines his great talent and experience to make this hair-raising tale featuring Randy Knowls, psychic detective. AN # # WFrom " Excellent"N.Y. Post. Including top stories by John Brunner, R.A. Lafferty, Michael G. Coney, Harlan Ellison. Including stories by Hugo awardwinners James Blish, Keith Laumer, and the Nebula award-winning '"Occam's Scalpel, by Theodore Sturgeon. (please add # for shipping) Fleeing Earth's end they come -- to give their "eiders" another chance! I  Bentley Price, photographer for Global News Service, had put a steak on the broiler and settled down in a lawn chair, a can of beer in hand, to watch it, when the door opened under an ancient white oak tree and people started walking out of it. Many years had passed since Bentley Price had been astounded. He had come, through bitter experience, to expect the unusual and to think but little of it. He took pictures of the unusual, the bizarre, the violent, then turned around and left, sometimes most hurriedly, for there was competition from such as the AP ing news photographer could allow no grass to grow beneath his feet. And while picture editors certainly were not individuals to be feared, it was often wise to keep them mollified. But now Bentley was astounded, for what was happening was not something that could easily be imagined or ever reconciled to any previous experience. He sat stiff in his chair, the beer can rigid in his hand and a glassy look about his eyes, watching the people walking from the doorway. Although now he saw that the opening was not exactly a door, but a ragged hole of darkness that quivered at the edges and was somewhat larger than any common door, for people were emerging four and five abreast. They seemed quite ordinary j although they were dressed a bit a outlandishly. If they all had been I young he would have thought they  were from a university or a youth  center and wearing the crazy kind of clothes that college students affected. But while some of these people were young, a lot of them were not. One of the first to have walked out onto the lawn was a tall thin man, graceful in his leanness. He had a great unruly mop of irongray hair and his neck looked like a turkey's. He wore a short gray skirt that ended just above his knees. A red shawl draped across one shoulder was fastened at his waist by a belt that also held the ": skirt in place. He looked, Bentley told himself, like a Scot in kilts, but without the plaid. Beside him walked a young woman dressed in a white and flowing robe that came down to her sandaled feet. The robe was belted and her intensely black hair, worn in a ponytail, hung down to her waist. She had a pretty face, thought Bentley -- the kind of prettiness one seldom saw -- and her skin, what little could be seen of it, was as white and clear as the robe she wore. The two walked toward Bentley and stopped in front of him. "I presume," said the man, "that you are the proprietor." Something was wrong with the way he talked. He slurred his IF words. But he was entirely understandable. "I suppose," said Bentley, "you mean do I own the joint." "Perhaps I do," the other said. "My speech may not be of this day, but you seem to hear me rightly." "Sure I do," said Bentley, "but what about this day? You mean to tell me you speak different every day?" "I do not mean that at all," said the man. "You must pardon our intrusion. It must appear unseemly. We'll endeavor not to harm your property." "Well, I tell you, friend," said Bentley, "I don't own the place. I'm just holding down the homestead for an absent owner. Will you ask those people not to go tramping over flower beds? Joe's missus will be awful sore if she comes home and finds those flowers messed up. She sets a store by them." All the time that they'd been talking, people had been coming through the door and now they over into the yards next door and the neighbors were coming out to see what was going on. The girl smiled brightly at Bentley. "I think you can be easy about the flowers," she said. "These are good people, well-intentioned and on their best behavior." "They count upon your sufferance," said the man. "They are refugees." Bentley took a good look at them. They didn't look like refugees. In his time, in many different parts of the world, he had photographed a lot of refugees. They were grubby and usually packed a lot of plunder, but these people were neat and clean and they carried very little, a small piece of luggage, perhaps, or a sort of attache case, like the one the man who was speaking with him had tucked under one arm. "They don't look like refugees to me," he said. "Where are they refugeeing from?" "From the future," said the man. "We beg utmost indulgence of you. What we are doing, I assure you, is a matter of our life or death." That shook Bentley up. He went to take a drink of beer and then decided not to and, reaching down, set the beer can on the lawn. He rose slowly from his chair. "I tell you, mister," he said, "if this is some sort of publicity stunt I won't lift a camera. I wouldn't take no shot of no publicity stunt, no matter what it was." "Publicity stunt?" asked the man and there could be no doubt that he was plainly puzzled. "I am sorry, sir. What you say eludes me. Bentley took a close look at the door. People still were coming out of it, still four and five abreast and there seemed no end to them. The opening hung there as he first had seen it, a slightly ragged blob of darkness that quivered at th edges. It blotted out a small section of the lawn, but behind and beyond it he could see the trees and shrubs and the play-set in the back yard of the house next door. If it was a publicity stunt, he decided, it was a topnotch job. A lot of PR jerks must have beat their brains out to dream up one like this. How had they rigged that ragged hole and where did all the people come from? "We come," said the man, "from five hundred years in the future. We are fleeing from the end of the human race. We ask your help and understanding." Bentley stared at him. "Mister," he asked, "you wouldn't kid me, would you? If I fell for this I would lose my job." "We expected, naturally," said the man, "to encounter disbelief. I realize there is no way we can prove our origin. We ask you, please, to accept us as we define ourselves." "I tell you what," said Bentley. "I will go with the gag. I will take some shots, but if I find it's publicity -- " "You are speaking, I presume, of taking photographs." "Of course I am," said Bentley. "The camera is my business, understand?" "We didn't come to have photographs taken of us. If you have some compunctions about this matter, please feel free to follow them. We will not mindat all." "So you don't want your pictures taken," Bentley said fiercely. "You're like a lot of other people. Yoju get into a jam and then you scream because someone snaps a picture of you." "We have no objections," ' said the man. "Take as many pictures as you wish." "You don't mind?" "Not at all." Bentley swung about, heading for the back door. His foot caught the can. of beer as he turned and sent it flying. Three cameras lay on the kitchen table, where he had been working with them before he'd gone out to broil the steak. He grabbed up one of them and was turning back toward the door when he thought of Molly. Maybe he'd better let Molly know about this, he told himself. The guy had said all these people were coming from the future and if that were true, it would be nice for Molly to be in on it from the start. Not that he believed a word of it, of course, but it was mighty funny, no matter what was going on. He picked up the kitchen phone and dialed. He grumbled at himself. He was wasting time when he should be taking pictures. Molly might not be home. It was Sunday and a nice day and there was no reason to expect to find her home. Molly answered. IF "Molly, this is Bentley. You know where I live?" "You're over in Virginia. Mooching free rent off Joe while he is gone." "It ain't like that at all. I'm taking care of the place for him. Edna, she has all these flowers -- " "Ha!" said Molly. "What I called about," said Bentley, "is would you come over here?" "I will not," said Molly. 'If you have in mind making passes at me you have to take me out." "I ain't making passes at no one," Bentley protested. "I got people walking out of a door all over the back yard. They say theyYe from the future, from five hundred years ahead." "What! Impossible -- " "That's what I think, too. But where are they coming from? There must be a thousand of them out there. Even if they're not from the future it ought to be a story. You better haul yoiir tail out here and talk with some of them. Have your byline in all the morning papers." "Bentley, this is on the level?" "On the level," Bentley said. "I ain't drunk and I'm not trying to trick you out here and -- " "All right," she said. "I'll be right out. You better call the office. Manning had to take the Sunday trick himself this week' and he's not too happy with it, so be careful how you say hi, there. Donald A. Wollhaim, Publishar When it comes to producing "a best of the year" anthology Theodore Sturgeon wrote that Wollheim ""knows well what he is doing."" Tastes differ in the collections, ence fiction and shuns oddball and ""fun-and-games"" items. You can rely upon this one. E.C. Tubb"s marvelous space adventures of Dumarest continue as he tries to find the where(UQi#). ""Startlingly impressive" says Harlan Ellison about Gordon Dickson's short stories and And startling, too, is the word single day in the year # A.D. when a number of "immortals" learn the facts of life. is #c n But he'll want to get some other people out there. If this isn't just a joke -- " "It's not any joke," said Bentley. "I ain't crazy enough to joke myself out of any job." "I'll be seeing you," said Molly. She hung up. Bentley had started to dial the office numbers when the screen door slammed. He looked around and the tall thin man stood just inside the kitchen. "You'll pardon me," the tall man said, "but there seems to be a matter of some urgency. Some of the little folks need to use a baths room. I wonder if you'd mind -- " "Help yourself," said Bentley, making a thumb in the direction of the bath. "If you need it, there's another one upstairs." Manning answered after a halfdozen rings. "I got a story out here," Bentley told him. "Out where?" "Joe's place. Out where I am living." "Okay. Let's have it." "I ain't no reporter," said Bentley. "I ain't supposed to get you stories. All I do is take the pictures. This is a big story and I might make mistakes and I ain't paid to take the heat -- " "All right," said Manning wearily. "I'll dig up someone to send out. But Sunday and overtime and all, it better be a good one." "I got a thousand people out in the backyard, coming through a funny door. They say they're from the future -- " "They say they're from the what?" howled Manning. "From the future. From five hundred years ahead." "Bentley, you're drunk." "It don't make no never mind to me," said Bentley. "It's ho skin off me. I told you. You do what you want." Re hung up and picked up a camera. A steady stream of children, accompanied by some adults, was coming through the kitchen door. "Lady," he said to one of the women, "there's another one upstairs. You better form two lines." # Steve Wilson, White House press secretary, was heading for the door of his apartment and an afternoon with Judy Gray, his office secretary, when the phone rang. He retraced his steps to pick it up. "This is Manning," said the voice at the other end. "What can I do for you, Tom?" "You got your radio turned on?" "Hell, no. Why should I have a radio turned on?" "There's something screwy happening," said Manning. "You should maybe know about it. Sounds like we're being invaded." "Invaded?" IF Winner of Hugo and Nebula Awards Provoking insights lor changing the world into our possibilities An Avon Book #c "Not that kind of invasion. People walking out of nothing. Say they're from the future." "Look, if this is a gag -- " "I thought so, too," said Manning. "When Bentley first called in -- "You mean Bentley Price, your drunken photographer?" "That's the one," said Manning, "but Bentley isn't drunk. Not this time. Too early in the day. Molly's out there now and I have sent out others. AP is on it and -- " "Where is this all going on?" "One place is over across the river. Not far from Fails Church." "One place?" "There are others. Wc have it from Boston, Chicago, Minneapolis. AP just came in with a report from Denver." "Thanks, Tom. I owe you." He hung up, strode across the room and snapped on a radio. "...so far known," said the radio. "Only that people are marching out of what one observer called a hole in the landscape. Coming out five and six abreast. Like a marching army, one behind the other, a solid stream of them. This is happening in Virginia, just across the river. We have similar reports from Boston, the New York area, Minne apolis, Chicago, Denver, New Orleans, Los Angeles. As a rule, not in the cities themselves, but in the country just beyond the cities. And here is another one -- Atlanta, this time." A quiver in the deadpan voice betrayed momentary unprofessional excitement. "No one knows who they are or where they comp from or by what means they are coming. They are simply here, walking into this world of ours. Thousands of them and more coming every minute. An invasion, you might call it, but not a warlike invasion. They are coming emptyhanded. They are quiet and peaceable. They're not bothering anyone. One unconfirmed report is that they are from the future, but that, on the face of it, is impossible -- " Wilson turned the radio to a whisper, went back to the phone and dialed. The White House switchboard answered. "That you, Della? This is Steve. Where is the President?" "He's taking a nap." "Could you get someone to wake him? Tell him to turn on the radio. I am coming in." "But, Steve, what is going on? What is -- " He broke the connection, dialed another number. After a time Judy came on the line. "Is something wrong, Steve? I was just finishing packing the picnic basket. Don't tell me -- " "No picnic today, sweetheart. We're going back to work." "On Sunday?" "Why not on Sunday? We have problems. I'll be right along. Be outside, waiting for me." "Damn," she said. "There goes my plan. I had planned to make you, right out in the open, on the grass under the trees." "I'm going to torture myself all day," said Wilson, "thinking of what I missed." "All right, Steve," she said. "I'll be outside waiting on the curb." He turned up the radio. "...fleeing from the future. From something that happened in their future. Fleeing back to us, to this particular moment. There is, of course, no such thing as time travel, but there are all these people and they must have come from somewhere..." # Samuel J. Henderson stood at the window, looking out across the rose garden, bright in the sunamer sun. W)iy the hell, he wondered, did everything have to happen on Sunday when everyone was scattered and it took no end of trouble to get hold of them? It had been on another Sunday that China had exploded and on still another that Chile had gone down the drain and here it was again -- whatever this might be. The intercom purred at him and, turning from the window, he went back to his desk and flipped up the key. "The secretary of defense," said the secretary, "is on the line." "Thank you, Kim," he said. He picked up the phone. "Jim, this is Sam. You've heard?" "Yes, Mr. President. Just a moment ago. On the radio. Just a snatch of it." "That's all I have, too. But there seems no doubt. We have to do something, do it fast. Get the situation under control." "f know. We'll have to take care of them. Housing. Food." "Jim, the armed forces have to do the job. There is no one else who can move fast enough. We have to get them under shelter and keep them together. We can't let them scatter. We have to keep some sort of control over them for a time at least. Until we know what is going on." "We may have to call out the guard." "I think," said the President, "perhaps we should. Use every resource at your command. You have inflatable shelters. How about transportation and food?" "We can handle things for a few days. A week, maybe. Depends upon how many of them there are. In a very short time we'll need help. Welfare. Agriculture. Whoever can lend a hand. We'll need a lot of. manpower and supplies." "You have to buy us some time," said the President. "Until we have a chance tq look at what we have. You'll have to handle it on an emergency basis until we can settle on some plan. Don't worry too much about procedures. If you have to bend a few of them we'll take care of that. I'll be talking to some of the others. Maybe we can all get together some time late this afternoon or early evening. You are the first to call in. I've heard from none of the others." "I would imagine they both might be moving. I haven't heard from either. I suppose they'll be reporting in." "Mr President, do you have any idea -- " "None at all. I'll let you know as soon as possible. Once you get things moving, get in touch again. I'll need you, Jim." "I'll get on it immediately." "Fine, then. I'll be seeing you." The intercom purred. "Steve is here," said the President's secretary. "Send him in." Steve Wilson caitie through the door. Henderson motioned toward a chair. "Sit down, Steve. What have we got?" ' ' "It's spreading, sir. All over the United States and Europe. Up in Canada. A few places in South America. Russia. Singapore. Manila. Nothing yet from China or Africa. So far, no explanation. It's fantastic, sir. Unbelievable. One is tempted to say it can't be happening. But it is. Right in our laps." The President removed his glasses, placed them on the desk, pushed them back and forth with his fingertips. "I've been talking with Sandburg. The army will have to get them under shelter, feed them, care for them. How's the weather?" "I didn't look," said Wilson, "but if I remember correctly from the morning broadcasts, good everywhere, except the Pacific Northwest. It's raining there. It's always raining there." "I tried to get State," said the President. "But, hell, you never Burning Tree. I left word. Someone's going out to get him. Why does everything always have to happen on Sunday? I suppose the press is gathering." other hour they'll be pounding on the door. I will have to let them in, but I can hold them for a while. By six o'clock, at the latest, they'll expect some sort of statement." "Tell them we're trying to find out. The situation is under study. You can tell them the armed services are moving rapidly to help these people. Stress the help. Not detention -- help. The guard may have to be called out to do the job. That is up to Jim." "Maybe, sir, in another hour or two we'll know more about it." "Maybe. You have any thoughts on the matter, Steve?" The press secretary ook his head. "Well, we'll find out. I expect to be hearing from a lot of people. It seems incredible that we can sit here, knowing nothing." "You'll probably have to go on TV, sir. The people will expect it." "I suppose so." "I'll alert the networks.' "I suppose I had better talk with London and Moscow. Probably Peking and Paris. We're all in this together -- we should act calls in, will know about that. I think I'd better phone Hugh at the U.N. See what he thinks." "How much of this is for the press, sir?" "The TV, I guess. Better keep the rest quiet for the moment. You have any idea of how many of these people are invading us?" thousand an hour. That's in one place. There may be as many as a hundred places. The count's not in." "For the love of God," said the How will the world take care of them? We have too many people now. We haven't got the housing or the food. Why, do you suppose, are they coming here? If they are from the future they ought to have IF The last word in time-machine novels. 'This is ail iwildiy imaginative and mindbending. Gerrold is such a good writer... After reading this one, time-machine addicts will never be quite able to look at the gadget again as a simple plaything." Publishers Weekly by David Gerrold author of When Harlie Was One yw A Science Fiction Book Club selection #, now at your bookstore historical data. They ought to know the problems they're creating." "They must have a compelling reason," said the secretary, "whoever they are. They're acting from some sort of desperation. Certainly they know we are limited in our capacity to put them up and keep them." "Children of our children," said the President, "many times removed. If they're truly from the future they are our descendants. We can't turn our backs on them." "I hope everyone feels' the same about it," said Wilson. "'They'll create an economic pinch if they keep coming and in an economic pinch there will be resentment. We talk about the present generation gap. Think of how much greater that ap will be when not two generations, but a number are involved." "The churches can help a lot," said the President, "if they will. If they don't, we could be in trouble. Let one loud-mouthed evangelist start some pulpit-thumping and we've had it." Wilson grinned. "You're talkit would be all right, I could get in touch with him. We knew one another back in college. I can talk with him, but I don't know what good I'll do." "Do what you can," said the President... "Reason with him. If he refuses to see reason we'll find someone who can really lean on him. What bothers me is the welfare population. Bread out of their mouths to feed all these extra mouths. It'll take fast footwork to keep them in line. The labor unions may be scared by all the extra manpower, but they are hardheaded people, all of them. A man can talk to them. They understand economics and you can make some sense to them." The intercom came to life. The President thumbed the lever. line, sir." Wilson stood up to leave. The President reached for the phone. He looked up at Wilson. "Stay close," sail the President. "I intend to, sir," said Wilson. # . All the buttons on Judy's phone were blinking. She was talking quietly into the transmitter. The spindle on her desk was festooned with notes. When Wilson came into the office she hung up. The lights kept on blinking. "The lounge is full," she said. "There is one urgent message. Tom Manning has something for you. Said it is top important. Shall I ring him?" "You carry on," said Wilson. "I'll get him." He sat down at his desk, hauled the phone close and dialed. "Tom, this is Steve. Judy said you have something important." "I think we do," said Manning. "Molly has someone. Seems to be a sort of leader of the gang out in Virginia. Don't know how his credentials run, if there are credentials. But the thing is, he wants to talk with the President. Says he can explain. In fact, he insists on explaining." "Has he talked with Molly?" "Some. But not important stuff. He is reserving that." "It has to be the President?" "He says so. His name is Maynard Gale. He has a daughter with him. Name of Alice." "Why don't you ask Molly to bring them along? Back way, not out in front. I'll notify the gate. I'll see what can be done." "There's just one thing, Steve." "Yes?" "MolFy found this guy. She has him hidden. He is her exclusive." "No," said Wilson. "Yes," insisted Manning. "She sits in on it. It has to be that way. Goddamn it, Steve, it's only fair. You can't ask us to share this. Bentley snagged him first and Molly hung onto him." "What you're asking me to do would ruin me. You know that as well as I do. The other press associations, The Times, The Post, all the rest of them -- " "You could announce it," said Manning. "You'd get the information. All we want is an excluIF Now in paperback! Lester del Reys first new adult Science Fiction novel in ten years  Highly original"Theodore Sturgeon, N.Y, Times Book Review Utter believability and constantly heightening fascination." -- Harlan Eluson, Loa Angeles Times #t wherever Berkley paperbacks are sold # Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. # sive interview with Gale. You owe us that much, Steve." that Global brought him in," said Wilson. "You'd be given full credit for it." "But no exclusive interview?" "You have the man right now. Get your interview. Get it first, then bring him in. That would be your privilege. I might not like it, Tom, but there's not a thing I could do to stop it." "But he won't talk until he's seen the President. You could release him to us once he's talked." "We have no hold on him. Not at the moment anyhow. We would have no right to release him to anyone. And how do you know he's what he says he is?" "I can't be sure, of course," said Manning. "But he knows what is going on. He's part of what is go- ing on. He has things all of us need to know. You wouldn't have to buy his story. You could listen, then exercise your judgment." "Tom, I can't promise anything at all. You know I can't. I'm surprised you asked." "Call me back after you've thought it over," Manning said. "Now, wait a second, Tom." "What is it now?" "It seems to me you might be running on thin ice You're withholding vital information." "We have no information." "A vital source of information, then. Public policy may be at issue. And what is more, you are holding the man against his will." "We're not holding him. He's sticking tight to us. He figures we are the only ones who can get him to the White House." "Well, impeding him. Refusing to give him the assistance that he needs. And -- I can't be sure of this, I can only guess -- you might be dealing with the equivalent of an ambassador." "Steve, you can't lean on me. We've been friends too long." "Let me tell you something, Tonw I'm not going along with this. Friendship or not. I have a hunch I could get a court order within the hour." "You couldn't get away with it." "You'd better talk to your lawyer. I'll look forward to hearing from you." He slammed down the phone and stood up. "What was that all about?" asked Judy. "Tom tried to bluff me." "You were pretty rough on him." "Damn it, Judy, I had to be. If I had knuckled under -- I couldn't knuckle under. In this job you don't make any deals." "They're getting impatient out there, Steve." "Okay. You better let them in." They came in with a rush, quietly, orderly, finding their accustomed seats. Judy closed the doors. "You have anything for us, Steve?" AP asked... "No statement," said Wilson. "Really not anything at all. I guess all I have to say is that I'll let you know as soon as there is anything to tell. As of less than half an hour ago, the President knew no more about this than you do. He willhave a statement later, as soon as he has some data to base a statement on. I guess the only thing I can tell you is that the armed forces will be assigned the job of getting these people under shelter and providing food and other necessities for them. This is only an emergency measure. A more comprehensive plan will be worked out later, perhaps involving a number of agencies." "Have you any idea," asked the Washington Post, "who our visitors are?" "None at all," said Wilson. "Nothing definite. Not who they are or where they come from or why they came or how." "You don't buy their story they are coming from the future?" "I didn't say that, John. We maintain the open mind of ignorance. We simply do not know." "Mr. Wilson," The New York Times asked, "has any contact been made with any of the visitors who can supply us facts? Have any conversations been initiated with these people?" "At the moment, no." IF "Can we assume from your answer that such a conversation may be imminent?" "Actually no such assumption would be justified. The administration is anxious, naturally, to learn what it's all about, but this event began happening not a great deal longer than an hour ago. There simply has been no time to get much done. I think all of you can understand that." "But you do anticipate there'll be some conversations." "I can only repeat that the administration is anxious to know what is going on. I would think that some time soon we may be talking with some of the people. Not that I know of any actual plans to do so, but surely that would seem to be an early logical course. It occurs to me that members of the press may already have talked with some of them. You may be way ahead of us." none of them is saying much. It's almost as if they had been coached to say as little as possible. They will simply say they have come from the future -- from five hundred years ahead -- and they apologize for disturbing us, but explain it was a matter of life and death for them to come. Beyond that, nothing. We are simply getting nowhere with them. I wonder, Steve, will the President be going on television?"  "I would think he might. I can't tell you when. I'll let you know immediately when a time is set." "Mr. Wilson," asked the Times, "can you say whether the President will talk with Moscow or London or ome of the other governments?" "I'll know more about that after he talks with State." "Has he talked with State?" "By now perhaps he may have. Give me another hour or so and I may have something for you. All I can do now is assure you I'll give you what I have as soon as the situation develops." "Mr. Press Secretary," said the Chicago Tribune, "I suppose it has occurred to the administration that the addition to the world's population of some two "You're ahead of me there," said Wilson. "My latest figure hour." "There are now," said The Tribune, "about two hundred of the tunnels or openings or whatever you may call them. Even if there should be no more than that it means that within less than forty-eight hours more than a billion people will have emerged upon the Earth. My question is how is the world going to be able to feed that many additional people?" "The administration," Wilson told the Tribune, "is very acutely aware of the problem. Does that answer your question?" "Partially, sir. But how does it propose to meet the problem?" "That will be a matter for consultation," said Wilson stiffly. "You mean you won't answer it?" "I mean that at the moment I can't answer it." "There is another similar question," said the Los Angeles Times, "concerning the advanced science and technology that must exist in a world five hundred years ahead. Has there been any consideration given -- " "There has not," said Wilson. "Not yet." The TVew York Times arose. "Mr. Wilson," he said, "we seem now to be moving far afield. Perhaps later some similar questions will be possible to answer." "I would hope so, sir," said Wilson. He stood and watched the press corps file back into the lobby. #  The army was having trouble. Lieutenant Andrew Shelby phoned Major Marcel Burns. "Sir, I can't keep these people together," he reported. "They are being kidnaped." "What in hell are you talking about, Andy? Kidnaped?" "Well, maybe not that, actually. But people are taking them in. One big house is full of them. There must be twenty or more of them inside. I talked with the owner. Look here, I told him, I have to keep these people together. I can't let them get scattered. I've got to load them up and take them where they have shelter and food. Lieutenant, said this man, you don't have to worry about the people I have here. If food and shelter are your only worry you can stop worrying. They ae my house guests, sir, and they have food and shelter. And he was not the only one. That was only one house. Other houses, all up. and down the street, they have them, too. The whole neighborhood has them. Everyone is taking them in. That's not the whole story, either. Pex)ple are driving in from miles away to load them up and take them off to take care of them. They're being scattered all over the countryside and I can't do a thing about it." "Are they still coming out of that door or whatever it is?" "Yes, sir, they are still coming out of it. They have never stopped. It's like a big parade. They just keep marching out of it. I try to keep them together, sir, but they wander and they scatter and they are taken up by all the people in the neighborhood and I can't keep track of them." "You've been transporting some of them?" "Yes, sir. As fast as I can load them up." IF "What kind of people are they?' "Just ordinary people, sir. Far as I can see. No different from us, except that they got a sort of funny accent. They dress funny. Some of them in robes. Some of them in buckskins. Some of them in -- oh, hell, they have all kinds of clothes. Like they were at a masquerade. But they are polite and cooperative. They don't give us trouble. It's just that there are so many of them. More of them than I can haul away. They scatter, but that ain't their fault. It's the people who invite them home. They are friendly and real nice, but there are just too many of them." The major sighed. "Well, carry on. Do the best you can." #  The buttons on Judy's telephone had never stopped their blinking. The lounge was jammed with waiting newsmen. Wilson got up from his desk and moved over to the row of clacking teletypes. Global News was coming up with its fifth new lead. Washington (GN) -- Millions of visitors who say they are from # years in the future continued to come to the present world this afternoon, pouring in steady streams from more than # "time tunnels." There has been general public reluctance to accept their explanation that they are from the future, but it is now beginning to gain some acceptance in official quarters, not so much in Washington as in some capitals abroad. Beyond the assertion that they are from the future, however, the refugees will add little else in the way of information. It is confidently expected that in the next few hours more information may be forthcoming. So far, in the confusion of the situation, no one who can be termed a leader or a spokesman has emerged from the hordes of people pouring from the tunnels. But there are now some indications that such a spokesman may have been located and that soon his story will be told. The distribution of the tunnels is worldwide and they have been reported on every continent. An unofficial estimate places the number of people passing through an hour. At this rate... "Steve," said Judy, "Tom Manning is on the phone." Wilson went back to his desk. "Have you got your court order yet?" Manning asked. "Not yet. I gave you time." "Well, you can get it any time you want to. Our attorney says you can." "I don't think I'll need it." "Matter of fact, you won't. Molly is already on her way. With Gale and his daughter. She'll be there in twenty minutes, more or less, depending on the traffic. It is getting hairy out there. Sightseers pouring in and a slew of army trucks." "Tom," said Wilson, "there is something I want to say. I know why you had to do it. You simply had to try." "Steve, there's one thing more." "What is it, Tom?" "Gale talked a little to Molly. Not much. There was one thing he asked her to pass along. Something he said couldn't wait." "You're passing it along?" "He said to station an artillery piece in front of each of the time tunnels. High-explosive rounds. If anything happens, fire straight into the tunnel. Don't pay any attention to the people who may be in it, just fire. If necessary, keep on firing." "Any idea of what could happen?" "He wouldn't say. Just that we would know. Said the explosion would knock out the tunnel, collapse it, put an end to it. You'll take it from here?" "I'll take it from here." "I'm not going to use it now," said Manning. "Not right away." Wilson hung up, picked up the Presidential phone. "Kim," he asked, "when can I get in?" "He's on the phone now. Other calls are holding. There are people with him. How important is this, Steve?" "Top important. I have to see the man." "Come on in. I'll slip you in as soon as possible." "Judy," said Wilson. "Molly Kimball is coming in the back way. She'll have two of the refugees with her." "I'll call the gate," said Judy. "And security. When they get here? "If I'm not back send them in to Kim." #  Sandburg, the secretary of detary of state, sat on a davenport in front of the President's desk. Reilly Douglas, the attorney general, held down a chair at its corner. They nodded to Wilson when he came into the room. "Steve," said the President, "I know that what you have must be important." The words were barely short of a rebuke. "I think so, Mr. President," said Wilson. "Molly Kimball is bringing in one of the refugees who says he is a spokesman for at least the Virginia group. I IF thought you might want to see him, sir." "Sit down, Steve' said the President. "What do you know about this man? Is he really a spokesman? An accredited spokesman?" "I don't know," said Wilson, "f would suppose he might have some credentials." "In any case," said the secretary of state, "we should listen to what he has to say. God knows no one else has been able to tell us anything." Wilson took a chair next to the attorney general and settled into it. "The man sent a rnessage ahead," he said. "He thought we should know as soon as possible. He suggested an artillery piece, firing high-explosive rounds, be placed in front of every door or time tunnel or whatever the people are coming out of." "There is some danger, then?" asked the secretary of defense. Wilson shook his head. "I don't know. He apparently was not specific. Only if anything happened at any tunnel we should fire an explosive charge directly into it. Even if there were people in it. To disregard the people and fire. He said the explosive would collapse the tunnel." "What could happen?" asked Sandburg. "Tom Manning passed on the word from Molly. He quoted the spokesman as saying we would know. I got the impression the measure is precautionary only. He'll be here in a few minutes. He can tell us." "What do you think?" the President asked the others. "Should we see this man?" "I think we have to," said Williams. "It's not a matter of protocol, because in the situation as it stands we have no idea what protocol might be. Even if he isn't what he says he is he can give us information -- and so far we have none at all. It isn't as if we were accepting him as an ambassador or official representative of those people out there. We can use our judgment as to how much of his story we'll accept." Sandburg nodded gravely. "I think we should have him in." "I don't like the idea of a press association's bringing him in," said the attorney general. "The news media are not particularly disinterested parties. There would be a tendency to palm their own man off on us." "I know Tom Manning," said Wilson. Molly, too, for that matter. They won't trade on it. Maybe they would have if this spokesman had given an interview to Molly, but he hasn't talked to anyone. The President, he said, is the only man he'll speak with." "The act of a public-spirited citizen," said the attorney general. The secretary of state said, "We won't, of course, be seeing him in any official capacity unless we make it so. We won't be bound by anything he says or anything we say." "But," said the secretary of defense, "I want to hear more about blowing up those tunnels. I don't mind telling you they have bothered me. I suppose it's all right as long as only people are coming out of them. But what would we do if something else started coming through?" "Like what?" asked Douglas. "I don't know," said Sandburg. "How deeply, Reilly, does your objection go?" the President asked the attorney general. "Not deeply," said Douglas. "Just a lawyer's reaction against irregularity." "Then I think," said the President, "that we should see him." He looked at Wilson. "Do you know, has he got a name?" "Maynard Gale," said Wilson. "He has his daughter with him. Her name is Alice." The President nodded. "You men have the time to sit in on this?" They nodded. "Steve," said the President. "You as well. He's your baby." #  The village had known hunger, but now the hunger ended: For some time in the night a miracle had happened. High up in the sky. just beyond the village, a hole had opened up and out of the hole had poured a steady stream of wheat. The foolish boy with the crippled leg who belonged to no one, who had simply wandered into the village, who was crippled in his mind as well as in his body, had been the first to see it. Skulking through the night as well as he could with one leg that dragged, unable to sleep, looking for the slightest husk that he could steal and chew on, he had seen the grain plunging from the sky in the bright moonlight. He had been frightened and had turied to run, but his twisting hunger had not let him. He had not known what the cascade was at first, but then it was something new and it might be something he could eat and he had not run away. So, frightened still, he had crept upon it and finally, seeing what it was, had rushed upon it and thrown himself upon the pile that had accumulated. He had stuffed his mouth, chewing and gasping, gulping to swallow the half-chewed grain, strangling and coughing, but stuffing his mouth again as soon as he managed to clear his throat. The overloaded stomach, unaccustomed to such quantities of food, had revolted, and he had rolled down off the pile and lain upon the ground, weakly vomiting. It was there that others found him later. They kicked him out of the way, for with this wondrous IF thing that had happened and that had been spotted by a man of the village who had happened to go out to relieve himself, they had no time for a foolish, crippled boy who had merely attached himself to the village and did not belong there. The village was aroused immediately and everyone came with baskets and with jars to carry off the wheat, but there was far more than enough to fill all receptacles, so the headmen got together and made plans. Holes were dug in which the grain was dumped, which was no way to treat good wheat. But it had to be hidden, if possible, from the sight of other villages and it was the only thing the people could think of to do immediately. With the dryness and the drought upon the land there was no moisture in the ground to spoil the wheat and it could be safely buried until that time when something else could be devised to store it. But the grain kept pouring from the sky and the ground was baked and hard to dig and they could not dispose of the pile. In the morning soldiers came and, thrusting the villagers to one side, began hauling the wheat away in trucks. The miracle kept on happening. The wheat continued to pour from the sky, but now it was a less precious miracle, not for the village alone, but for a lot of other people. #m "I would suppose," said Maynard Gale, "that you would like to know exactly who we arc and where we're from." "That," agreed the President, "might be an excellent place to start." "We are," said Gale, "most ordinary, uncomplicated people from the year twenty-four hundred ninety-eight, almost five centuries in your future. The span of time between you and us is about the same as the span of time between the American voyages of Christopher Columbus and your present day. "We arc traveling here through what I understand you are calling, in a speculative way, time tunnels, and that name is good enough. We are transporting ourselves through time and I will not even attempt to try to explain how it is done. Actually I couldn't even if I wanted to. I do not understand the principles except in a very general way. If in fact, I understand them at all. The best I could do would be to give you a very inadequte layman's explanation." "You say," said the secretary of state, "that you are transporting yourselves through time back to the present moment. May I ask how many of you intend to make the trip?" "Under ideal circumstances, us." "You mean your entire population? Your intention is to leave your world empty of any human beings?" "That, sir, is our heartfelt hope." "And how many of you are there?" "Give or take a few thousand, you will note, is somewhat less than yours at the present moment and later I will explain why this -- " "But why?" asked the attorney general. "Why did you do this? You must know that our world's economy cannot support both your population and our own. Here in the United States, perhaps in a few of the more favored countries of the world, the situation can be coped with for a limied period of time. We can, as a matter of utmost urgency, shelter you and feed you, although it will strain even our resources. But there are other areas of Earth that could not manage to sustain you even for a week." "We are well aware of that," said Maynard Gale. "We are trying to make certain provisions to alleviate the situation. In India, in China, in some African and South American areas we are sending back in time not only people, but wheat and other food supplies, in the hope that whatever we can send may help. We know how inadequate these provisions will be. And we know as well the stress we place upon all the people of this time. You must believe me when I say we did not arrive at our decision lightly." "I would hope not," said the President, somewhat tartly. "I think," said Gale, "that in your time you may have taken note of published speculations about whether or not there are other intelligences in the universe, and the almost unanimous conclusion that there must surely be. Which raises the subsidiary question of why, if this is so, none of these intelligences has sought us out -- why we have not been visited. The answer to this, of course, is that space is vast and the distances between stars are great and that our solar system lies far out in one of the galactic arms, far from the greater star density in the galactic core, where intelligence might have risen first. And then there is the speculation concerning what kind of people, if you want to call them that, might come visiting if they should happen to do so. Here I think the overwhelming, although by no .means unanimous body of opinion is that by the time a race had developed star-roving capability it would have arrived at a point of social and ethical development where it would pose no threat. "And while this may be true enough, there would always be exceptions and we, it seems, in our IF own time, have become the victims of one of these exceptions." "What you are saying," said Sandburg, "is that you have been visited, with what appears to have been unhappy results. Is that why you sent ahead the warning about the planting of artillery?" "You haven't yet set up the guns? From the tone of your voice -- " "We have not had time." "Sir, I plead with you. We discussed the possibility that some of them might break through the defenses we set up and invade the tunnels. We have strong defenses, of course, and there are strict orders -- to be carried out by devoted men -- to destroy any tunnel where a breakthrough might occur but there is always the chance that sonething could go wrong." "But your warning was so indefinite. How will we know if something -- " "You would know," said Gale. "There would be no doubt at all. Take a cross between your largest, most powerful mammal and your most agile one. Let it move so fast that it seems no more than a blur. Give it teeth and claws and an armament of poison spines. Not that they look like your bears or tigers or even elephants -- " "You mean they carry nothing but claws and teeth and poison darts?" "You're thinking of weapons, sir. They don't need weapons. They are unbelievably fast and strong. They are filled with thoughtless bloodlust. They take and they will keep coming at you. They can tunnel under fortifications and tear strong walls apart." "It is unbelievable," said the attorney general. "You're right," said Gale. "But I am telling you the truth. We have held them off for almost twenty years but we can foresee the end. We foresaw it a few years after they first landed. We knew we had only one chance -- to retreat. And the only plce we could retreat to was the past. We can hold them off np longer. Gentlemen, believe me, five hundred years from now the human world is coming to an end." "They can't follow you through time, however," said the President. "If you mean, can they duplicate our time capability, I am fairly sure they can't. They're not that kind of being." "There is a serious flaw in your story." said the secretary of state. "You describe these alien invaders as little more than ferocious beasts. Intelligent, perhaps, but still mere animals. For intelligence to be transformed into a technology such as would be necessary to build what I suppose you would call a spaceship, they would require manipulatory members -- hands or perhaps even tentacles, something of the sort." "They have them." "But you saitl -- " "I'm sorry," said Gale. "It cannot all be told at once. They have members armed with claws. They have other members that etd in the equivalent of hands. And they have manipulatory tentacles as well. Theirs is a strange evolutionary case. In their evolutionary development, apparently, and for what reason we do not know, they di not trade one thing for another, as has been the case in the evolution of the creatures of the Earth. They developed new organs and abilities, but they let go of none of those they already had. They hung on to everything. They loaded the evolutionary deck in their own favor. "I would suspect that if they wished they could build most efficient weapons. We have often wondered why they didn't. Our psychologists postulate that may have developed their spacetraveling capability for no other reason than to find other life tensely personal experience for them -- as religion once was for the human race. And since it is so personal it must be done personally, without mechanical aids. It must be done with claws and fangs and poison tail. They may feel about accomplished swordsman of some hundreds of years ago must have felt about the first guns -- contempt. Perhaps each one of them must continually reassert his manhood -- selfhood, perhaps -- and the only means by which he can do this is slaughter, personally accomplished. Their individual standing, their regard for themselves, the regard of their fellowsTor them, may be based upon the quality and the "We know little of them. There has been, as you can imagine, no cornmuniciation with them. We havephotographed them and we have studied them dead, but this is only superficial to any understanding of them. They do not fight campaigns. They seem to have no real plan of battle, no strategy. If they had, they would have wiped us out long ago. They make sudden raids and then retire. They make no attempt to hold territory as such. They don't loot. All they seem to want is killing, At times it has seemed to us that they have deliberately not .wiped us out -- as if they were conserving us, maktng us last as long as possible, so we'd still be there to satisfy their bloodlust." Wilson glanced at the girl sitting on the sofa beside Gale and caught on her face a shadow of terror. "Twenty years?" Sandburg said. "You held these beasts off for twenty years?" "We are doing better now," said IF Gale. "'Or at least we were doing better before we left. We now have weapons. At first we had none. Earth had been without war and weapons for a hundred years or more when their spaceship came. They would have exterminated us then if they had fought a total war, but as I have explained, it has not been total war. That gave us time to develop some defense. We fabricated weapons, some of them rather sophisticated weapons, but even your weapons of today would not be enough. Your nuclear weapons might work, perhaps, but no sane society -- " He stopped in some embarrassment, waited for a moment and then went on. "We killed a lot of them, of course, but it seemed to make no difference. There always seemed as many of them as ever, if not more. Only the one spaceship came, as far as we could determine. It could not have carried many of them, large as it was. The only answer to their numbers seems to be that they are prolific breeders and that they reach maturity in an incredibly xshort time. They don't seem to mind dying. They never run or hide. I suppose, again, that it is their warrior's code. They seem to know nothing quite as glorious as death in battle. And they take them and let one get through and it more than evens the score. If we had stayed they would eventually have wiped us out. Even trying to conserve us, as they may have been trying, they still would have exterminated us. That is why we're here. "It is impossible, I think, for the human race to accept the sort of creatures they are. There is nothing that we know that can compare with them." "Perhaps," said the President, "in view of what we have been told, we should do something now in re. gard to that artillery." "We have, of course," the attorney general pointed out, "no real evidence." "I would rather," said Sandburg sharply, "move without ironclad evidence than find it suddenly sitting in my lap." The President reached for his phone. He said to the secretary of defense, "Use this phone. Kim will put through the call." "After Jim has made his call," said State, "perhaps I should use the phone. We'll want to get off an advisory to the other govern- ments." # . Miss Emma Garside turned off the radio and sat bolt upright in her chair in something approaching silent awe of herself had just occurred to her. It was not often (well, actually never before) that she had felt that way, ' for -- although a proud woman -- she was inclined to be mousy in both her actions and her thoughts. The pride she had was a secret one, divulged only occasionally and guardedly to Miss Clarabelle Smythe, her closest friend. It was something she held close within herself for comfort, although there were times she flinched a little when she remembered the undoubted horse thief and the maa who had been hanged for a rather heinous offense. She had never mentioned either the horse thief or the hanged man to her good friend Clarabelle. The Sunday afternoon sunlight slanted through the west window, falling on the worn carpeting where the aged cat slept, tightly rolled into a ball. In the garden at the rear of the dowdy house on the dowdy street a catbird was calling sassily -- perhaps preparing for a new inroad on the raspberry patch -- but she paid it no attention. It had cost a deal of money, she thought. The pride she had was a ter writing and some traveling, but what she knew had been worth the money and time. For there was no one else in this little town who could trace back his or her blood as far as she -- to the Revolution and beyond, back to English days and little English villages that lay sunken deep in time. And while there had been a horse thief and a hanged man and others of somewhat dubious character and undistinguished lineage, they had been offset by country squires and sturdy yeomen, with even the hint of an ancient castle somewhere in the background, although she never had quite been able to authenticate the castle. And now, she thought, and now! She had carried her family research back as far as human ingenuity and records went. Now could she -- would she dare -- proceed in the opposite direction, forward into the future? She knew all the old ancestors and here, she told herself, was the opportunity to acqiraint herself with all the new descendants. If these people were really what the radio hinted they might be -- it surely could be done. But if it were to be done she would have to do it, for there would be no records. She would have to go among them -- those who came from the area of New England -- and she would have to ask her questions and she might ask many different people before she got a clue. Are there, my dear, any Garsides or Lamberts or Lawrences in your family tree? Well, then, if you think so, but don't really know -- is there anyone who would? Oh, yes, my dear, of course it is most important -- I cannot begin to tell you how important... She sat in the chair, unstirring while the cat slept on and the catbird screamed, feeling in her that strange sense of family that had IF driven her all these years and which, given this new development, might drive her further yet. #. "So," said the President, leaning back in his chair, "as we have it so far, the Earth some five hundred years from now is being attacked by beings from space. It is impossible for the people of that day to cope with them and their only recourse is to retreat back into the past. Is that a fairly accurate summary of what you've told us?" Gale nodded. "Yes, sir, I would say it is." "But now that you are here -- or a lot of you are here and more coming all the time -- what happens now? Or have you had no opportunity to plan ahead?" "We have plans," said Gale, "but we will need some help." "What I want to know," said the attorney general, "is why you came back to us. Why to this particular moment in time?" "Because," said Gale, "you have the technology that we need and the resources. We made a thorough historical survey and this particular time slot, give or take ten years, seemed to suit our purpose best." "What kind of technology are you thinking of?" "A technology that is capable of fabricating other time machines. We have the plans and the specifications and the labor force. We will need materials and your fbrebearance." "But why time machines?" "We do not intend to stay here," said Gale. "It would be unfair to do so. It would put too great a strain on your economy. As it is we are putting a great strain upon it. But we could not stay up there in the future. I hope you understand that we had to leave." "Where will you be going?" asked the President. "Deeper into time," said Gale. "Tcythe Mid-Miocene." "The Miocene?" "A geological epoch. It began, years ago, lasted for some twelve "But why the Miocene? Why "There are a number of considerations," said Gale. "We have tried to work it out as carefully as we can. The main reason is that grass first appeared in the Miocene. Paleontologists believe that grass appeared at the beginning of the period. They base their belief upon the development of high-crowned cheek-teeth in the herbivores of that time. Grass carries abrasive minerals and wears down the teeth. The development of high-crowned teeth that grew throughout the animal's lifetime would be an answer to this. The teeth are the kind that one would expect to find in creatures that lived on grass. There is evidence, too, that during the Miocene more arid conditions came about, which led to the replacement of forests by extensive grass prairies that supported huge herds of grazing animals. This, say the paleontologists, began with the dawn of the Miocene, we have chosen as our first target The paleontologists' timetable may be in error, although we do not believe it is." "If that is where you're heading." the attorney general asked, "Why are you stopping here? Your time tunnels, I assume -- the ones you used to reach us -- would have carried you that far." "That is true, sir. But we didn't have the time. This move had to be made as rapidly as possible." "What has time to do with it?" "We can't go into the Miocene without implements and tools, with no seed stocks or agricultural animals. We have all those in our own time, of course, but it would have taken weeks to gather and transport them to the tunnel mouths. There was also the matter of capacity. Every tool or bag of seed or head of livstock would mean it would take longer to move the people. Given the time and without the pressure of the aliens we would have done it that way. going directly to the Miocene. But the logistics were impossible. The monsters knew something was going on and we knew that as soon as they fo.und out what it was they would attack the tunnel heads. We felt we have to move as swiftly as we could to save as many people as we could... So we arrive here empty-handed." "You expect us to furnish you with all the things you need?" ""Reilly," the President said quietly, "it seems to me you are being somewhat uncharitable. This is not a situation we asked for nor one that we expected, but it is one we have and we must deal with it as gracefully and as sensibly as we can. As a nation we have helped and still are helping other less favored peoples. It is a matter of foreign policy, of course, but it is also an old American tendency to hold out a helping hand. These people on our soil are, I would imagine our own descendants, hence native Americans, and it doesn't seem to me that we should balk at doing for thern what we have done for others." "If," the attorney general pointed out, "any of this is true." "That is something," the President agreed, "we must determine. I imagine that Mr. Gale would not expect us to accept what he has told us without further investigation when that is possible. There is one thing, Mr, Gale, that rather worries me. You say that IF you plan on going back to a time when grass has evolved. Do you intend going blind? What would happen if, when you got there, you found the paleontologists were mistaken about the grass -- or that there were other circumstances that made it very difficult for you to settle?" "We came here blind, of course," said Gale. "But that was different. We had fairly good historic evidence. We knew what we would find. We can't be as certain when we deal with time spans covthink we have an answer fairly well worked out. Our physicists and other scientists have developed, at least theoretically, a means of communication through a time tunnel. We hope to be able to send through an advance party that can explore the situation and then report back to us. "One thing I have not explained is that our travel capability is in one direction only. We can go into the past -- we cannot move into the future. So, if any advance party is sent back and finds the situation untenable it has no recourse other than to stay there. Our great fear is that we may have tp keep readjusting the destination of the tunnels and may have to send out -- and abandon -- several advance parties. Our people, gentlemen, are quite prepared to face such a situation. We have men guarding the tunnel heads who do not expect to travel through the tunnels. They are well aware that a time will come when each tunnel must be destroyed and that they and whoever else may not have made it through the tunnels must then face death. "I don't tell you this to enlist your sympathy. I only say it to assure you that whatever dangers face. We shall not call upon you for We shall be grateful, of course, for anything that you may do." "Kindly as I may feel toward you," said the secretary of state, "and much as I am disposed, short of a certain natural skepticism, to believe what you have told us, I am considerably puzzled by some of the implications. What is happening now, right here this minute, will become a matter of historical record. It stands to reason that it now becomes a part of history that is read in the future. So you knew before you started how this all came out. You would have had to know." "No," said Gale, "we did not know. It was not in our history. It hadn't, strange as it may sound to you, yet happened." "But it had," said Sandburg. "It must have." "Now," said Gale, "you are getting into an area that I do not myself understand -- philosophical and physical concepts, strangely intertwined and so far as I am concerned, impossible of lay understanding. The point you have made is something that our scientific community gave much thought to. At first we asked ourselves if it lay within our right to change history, to go back into the past and introduce factors that would change the course of events. We wondered what effects such history-changing would have and what would happen to the history that we already have. But now we are told that it will have no effect at all upon the history that already has been laid down. I know all this must sound impossible to you and I admit that I don't fully understand all the factors myself. The human race passed this way once before, when our ancestors were moving toward their future and what is happening now did not happen then. So the human race moved into our time and the alien invaders came. Now we come back to escape the aliens and from this moment forward nothing will be quite as we understand our past. History has been changed, but not our history, not the history that led to the moment that we left. Your history has been changed. By our action you are on a new and different course. Whether on this second time track the aliens will attack we cannot be sure, but the indications are they will." "This," said Douglas flatly, "is a lot of nonsense." "Believe me," said Gale, "it is not intended as nonsense. The men who worked it out, who thought it through, are honorable and accomplished scholars." "This is nothing," said the President, "that we can resolve at the moment. Since it is done, we can safely put it off until another day. After all, what's done is done and we have to live with it. One more thing puzzles me." "Please say it, sir," said Gale. why go back so far?" "We want to go back far enough so that our occupation of that segment of Earth's time cannot possibly have any impact on the rise of mankind. We probably will not be there too long. Our historians tell us that man, in his present state of technology, cannot look forward to more than a yars, we'll all be gone from Earth. Once man can leave the Earth he probably will leave it. surely will be gone." "But you will have impact in out. "You'll use up natural resources." "Some iron. Not enough for the amount to be noticed. So little is left where we came from that we know how to be frugal." "You'll need energy." IF "We have fusion power," said Gale. "Our economy would be a great shock to you. We make things to last. Not for ten years or twenty, but for centuries. Obsolescence no longer is a factor in our economy. As a result our manufacturing is less than one per cent of what yours is today." "That's impossible," said Sandburg. "By your present standards, perhaps," admitted Gale. "Not by ours. We had to change our life style. We simply had no choice. Centuries of overuse of natural resources left us impoverished. We had to do with what we had. We had to find ways in which to do it." "If what you say about man's remaining on Earth for no longer true," said the President, "I don't quite understand why you have to You could go back only five and it would be quite all right." Gale shook his head. "We'd be getting too close, then, to the forerunners of mankind. True, man as we recognize him, rose no more the first primates came into being We'll be intruding on those first primates, of course, but perhaps with no great impact. And it would be impossible for us to miss them, for to go beyond them would place us in the era of the dinosaurs, which would not be a comfortable time period. Not just because of the dinosaurs alone. The critical period for mankind, the appearance of the forerunners of the australopithecines, could not have been later than fifteen million years ago. We can't be certain of these figures. Most of our anthropologists believe that if we ably would be safe enough. But we want to be sure. And there is no reason why we can't go deeper And there is another thing -- we want to leave room enough for you." Douglas leaped to his feet. "For us?" The President raised a restraining hand. "Wait a minute, Reilly. Let's have the rest of it." "It makes good sense," said Gale, "or we think it does. Consider this -- just five hundred years ahead lies the invasion of Earth from space. Yes, I know, because of the new course of events our arrival in your time has created the attack may not happen, but our scholars think it will -- they're almost sure it will. So why should you move forward to meet it? Why not go back with us? You've got a five-hundred-year margin. You could make use of it. You could go back, not in a hurry as well be going, but over the course of a number of years. Why not leave Earth empty and go back to make a new beginning? It would be a fresh start for the human race. New lands to develop -- " "This is sheer insanity!" shouted Douglas. "If we, your ancestors, left, you wouldn't be here to start with and -- " "You're forgetting what he ex"about a different time track." Douglas sat down. "I wash my hands of it," he said. "I'll have no more to do with it." "We couldn't go back with you," said Sandburg. "There are too many of us." "Not with us. Like us. Together there would be far too many of us. There are too many of you now. Here is the chance, if you will take it, to reduce your population to more acceptable numyears. Half of you go back nineus would be separated by a million years. We wouldn't interfere with one another." "There is one drawback," said you. We would have a disastrous impact on the resources of whatever period we inhabited. We'd use up whatever fuels and iron -- " "Not," said Gale, "if you had our philosophy, our viewpoint and our technologies." "You would give these things to us?" "If you were going back," said Gale, "we would insist on it." The President rose. "I think," he said, "we have reached a point where we must stop. There are things to be done. We thank you, Mr. Gale, for coming to us and bringing along your lovely daughter. I wonder if we might have the privilege -- later -- of talking further with you." "'Certainly," said Gale. "It "would be a pleasure. There are others of us whom you should be talking with, men and women who know far more than I do about many aspects of the situation." "Would it be agreeable to the two of you," asked the President, "to be my house guests? I'd be glad to put you up." Alice Gale spoke for the first time. She clapped her hands together, delighted. "You mean here in the White House?" The President smiled. "Yes, my dear, in the White House. We'd be very glad to have you." "You must pardon her," her father said. "It happens that the White House is a special interest of hers. She has studied it. She has read everything about it she can lay her hands on. Its history and its achitecture, everything about it." "Which," said the President, "is a great compliment to us." I #  The people were still marching from the door, but now miliIF tary policemen were there to direct them and to keep the mouth of the tunnel free for those who pressed on from behind. Other soldiers held back the crowds of curious sightseers who had flocked into the area. A bullhorn voice bawled out directions and when the bullhorh fell silent, the tinny chatter of a radio could be heard from one of the hundreds of cars parked up and down the street. Some were against the curb -- others, in a fine display of the disrespect of property, had pulled up on lawns. Military trucks and personnel carriers trundled down the street, halted long enough to take on a load of refugees, roared off. But the people came out of the tunnel faster than the trucks could cart them away and the great mass of people kept pushing outward. Lieutenant Andrew Shelby spoke into his phone. "We ain't more than making a dent in them. Major Burns. Christ, I never saw so many people. It would be easier if we could get some of the sightseers out of the area. They don't want to leave and we haven't got the manpower to make them. We've closed off all civilian traffic to the area and, the radio has been asking people not to come out here, but they are still coming or are trying to come and the roads are clogged. I hate to think of what it will be like once it gets dark. How about them engineers who were supposed to come out here and put up some floodlights?" "They're on their way," said Burns. "Hang in there, Andy, and do every ting you can. We got to get those people out of there." "I need more carriers," the lieutenant said. "I'm feeding them in," the major told him, "as fast as I can lay my hands on them. And another thing -- there'll be a gun crew coming out." "We don't need no gun. What we need a gun for?" "I don't know," the major said. "All I know it is on its way. No one told me what it was coming for." #. "You can't honestly believe this story," Douglas protested. "It's too preposterous to admit of any credence. I tell you, we've been had." all these people coming out of the time tunnels preposterous. There has to be some explanation of them. Gale's may be a bit fantastic, but it holds together in a sort of zany fashion. I admit I have some difficulty -- " "And his credentials," the attorney general pointed out. "Identification rather than credentials. Ombudsman for the Washington community, a social service worker of some kind. No connection with any govermental unit -- " have no real government. You must realize that five centuries from now there would be changes."' "Steve," the President asked, "what do you make of it? You're the man whol)rought him in." "A waste of time," said Douglas. "If you want me to vouch for his story," said Wilson, "I can't do that, of course." "What did Molly say?" asked Sandburg. "Nothing really. She simply turned him over to me. He told her none of the things that he told us, of that I'm sure, but she wormed out of him and his daughter some sort of story about what kind of world they came from. She said she was satisfied." "Did Global News try to make a deal?" asktjd Douglas. "Of course they did. Any news agency or any reporter worth his salt certainly would have tried. They would have been delinquent in their job if they hadn't tried. But Manning didn't press too hard. He knew as well as I did -- " "You didn't make a deal?" asked Douglas. "You know he didn't," said the President. "What I need right now," said Wilson, "is some indication of how much I should tell the press." "Nothing," said Douglas. "Absolutely nothing." "They know I've, been in here. They know something is going on. They won't be satisfied with nothing." "They don't need to know." "But they do need to know," said Wilson. "You can't treat the press as an adversary. They have a legitimate function -- the people have a right to know. The press has played ball with us before and they will this time, but we can't ignore them. We have to give them something and it had better be the truth." "that we should tell them we have information that tends to make us believe these people , may be, as they say, from the future, but that we need some time to check. At the moment we can make no positive announcement. We are still working on it." "They'll want to know," said Sandburg, "why they are coming back. Steve has to have some sort of answer. We can't send him out there naked. Besides, they will know within a short time, that we are placing guns in front of the tunnels." "It would scare hell out of evknown why the guns were being placed. There would be a worldwide clamor for us to use the guns to shut down the tunnels." "Why don't we Just say," suggested the President, "that the people of the future are facing some great catastrophe and are fleeing for their lives? The guns? I IF suppose we'll have to say something about them. We can't be caught in a downright falsehood. You can say they are no more than routine precaution." "But only if the question is raised," said Sandburg. "Okay," said Wilson, "but that isn't all of it. There'll be other questions. Have we consulted with other nations? How about the UN? Will there be a formal statement later?" "You could say, perhaps," said other governments. We have that advisory about the guns." "Steve," said the President, "you'll have to try to hold them off. We've got to get our feet under us. Tell them you'll be back to them later." By Molly Kimball Washington (Global News) -- The people who are coming from the tunnels are refugees from time. This was confirmed late today by Maynard Gale, one of the refugees. He refused to say, however, why they were fleeing from a future which he says lies # years ahead of us. The circumstances of their flight, he insisted, could only be revealed to a constituted government. He said he was making efforts to make contact with an appropriate authority. He explained that he held the position of ombudsman for the Washington community in his future time and had been delegated to communicate with the Federal Government upon his arrival here. He did, however, give a startling picture of the kind of society in which he lives, or rather, did live -- a world in which there are no nations and from which the concept of war has disappeared. It is a simple society, he said, forced to become simple by the ecological problems that we face today. It is no longer an industrial society. Its manufacturing amounts to no more, perhaps less, than one per cent of today's figure. What it does manufacture is made to last. The philosophy of obsolescense was abandoned only a short distance into our future, he said, in the face of dwindling natural resources; a dwindling about which economists and ecologists have been warning us for years. Because its coal and fossil fuels are almost gone the future world, said Gale, relies entirely on fusion for its energy. The development of that type of power, he said, is the only thing that holds the delicate economic fabric of his world together. The world of # years from now is highly computerized, with the greater part of the population living in "high-rise" cities. A halfdozen towers, some of them reaching as high as a mile, will constitute a city. Urban sprawl is gone, leaving vast surface areas free for agricultural purposes. The cities are built in large part from converted scrap metal, which in our day would have been buried in landfills. Administration is almost entirely by computer. There is, Gale said, none of the great spread of wealth that is found in our world. No one is rich and there is none of the abject poverty that today oppresses millions. Apparently there has been not only a change in life style, but a change as well in life values. Life is simpler and kinder and less competitive -- there are few eager beavers in the world of # years ahead... # A crowd, quiet and orderly, was gathering in Lafayette Park as crowds had gathered through the years, to stand staring at the White House, not demanding anything, not expecting anything, simply gathering there in a dumb show of participation in a nation's crisis. Above the crowd Andy Jackson still sat his 'earing charger, the patina of many years upon both horse and rider, friends to perching pigeons. No one quite knew what this crisis meant or if it might even be a crisis. The people had as yet no idea of how it had come about or what it might mean to them, although there were a few who had done some rather specific, although distorted, thinking on the insistently) to share with their neighbors what they had been thinking. In the White House a flood of calls had started to come in and were stacking up -- calls from members of the Congress, from party stalwarts ready with suggestions and advice, from businessmen and industrialists suddenly grown nervous, from crackpots who held immediate solutions. A television camera crew drove up in a van and set up for business, taking footage of the Lafayette crowd and of the White House, gleaming in the summer sun. A newsman on the van was doing a stand-up commentary against the background. Straggling tourists trailed up and down the avenue, somewhat astonished at thus being caught up in the middle of history, and the White House squirrels came scampering down to the fence and IF through it out onto the sidewalk, sitting up daintily, forepaws folded on their chests, begging for handouts. I #  Alice Gale stood in the window, gazing across Pennsylvania Avenue at the gathering crowd in the park beyond it. She hugged herself in shivering ecstasy, not daring, to believe that she actually was here -- that she could be back in twentieth-century Washington where history had been made, where legendary men had lived -- and at this moment in the very room where crowned heads had slept. Crowned heads, she thought. What an awful, almost medieval phrase. And yet it had a certain ring to it, a certain elegance that her world had never known. She had caught a glimpse of the Washington Monument as she and her father had been driven into the White House grounds. And out there a marble Lincoln sat in his marble chair, his arms resting on its arms and his massive, whiskered face bearing that look of greatness, of sorrow and compassion that had quieted thousands into reverent silence as they climbed the stairs to stand face to face with him. Just across the hallway her father was in Lincoln's bedroom with its massive Victorian bed and the velvet-covered slipper chairs. Although, she recalled, Lincoln had never really slept there. It was history brought back to life, she thought, history resurrected. And it was a precious thing. It would be something to remember always, no matter what might tie ahead. It would be something to remember in the Miocene. And what, she wondered with a little shiver, might the Miocene be like? If they ever got there, if the people of this time should decide to help them get there? But whatever might happen she had something she could say: Once I slept in the Queens Bedroom, She turned from the window and looked in wonder once again renewed at the huge four-poster bed with its hangings and counterpane of rose and white, at the mahogany bookcase-secretary that stood between the windows, at the soft white carpeting. It was selfish of her, she knew, to be feeling like this when so many others of her world at this very moment stood homeless and bewildered, unsure of their welcome, perhaps wondering if they would be fed and where they might lay their heads this night, but even as she tried she could not rebuke herself. ## "Terry," said the President, speaking into the phone, "this is Sam Henderson." "How good of you to call, Mr. President," said Terrance Roberts on the other end. "What can I do for you?" The President chuckled. "Maybe you can do a lot for me. I don't know if you will want to. You've heard what's happening?" "Strange things," said the labor leader. "A lot of speculation. Are you folks in Washington making any sense of it ?" "Some," said the President. "It would seem the people of the future face catastrophe and their only escape is to run back into time. We haven't got the full story yet." "But, Mr. President -- time travel?" "I know. It doesn't sound possible. I haven't talked to any of our physicists, although I intend to do so and I suspect they'll tell me it's impossible. But one of the people who came through a time tunnel swears that's exactly what he did. If there were any other way to explain what is taking place I'd be more skeptical than I am. But I'm forced by circumstances to accept some explanation -- at least provisionally."  "You mean all of them from up ahead are coming back? How many of them are there?" guess." "But, Mr. President, how will we take care of them?" "Well, that's really what I wanted to talk with you about. It seems they don't intend to stay here. They mean to go farther back in time -- some twenty million years farther. But they need help to do. it. They need new time tunnels built and they'll need equipment to take with them -- " "We can't build time tunnels." "They can show us how." "It would cost a lot. Both in manpower and materials. Can they pay for it?" "I don't know. I never thought to ask. I don't suppose they can. But it seems to me we have to do it. We can't let them stay here. We have too many people as it is. " "Somehow, Mr. President," said Terrance Roberts, "I can sense what you want to ask me." The President laughed. "Not only you, Tejry. The industrialists as well -- everyone, in fact. But I have to know beforehand what kind of cooperation I can expect. I wonder if you'd mind coming here so a few of us can talk about it. " "Certainly, I'll come. Just let me know when you want me. Although I'm not just sure how much I can do for you. Let me ask around some, ta)k to some of the other boys. Exactly what do you have in mind?" "I'm not entirely sure. That's something I'll need some help to work out. On the face of it we can't do the kind of job that's called for under existing circumIF stances. The government alone can't assume the kind of costs involved -- I'm not thinking just of the tunnels. I have no idea so far what they would involve. But we would need to furnish the resources for an entire new civilization and that would cost a lot of money. The taxpaying public would never stand for it. So we'll have to turn elsewhere for help. Labor will have to pitch in -- industry will have to help. A national emergency calls for extraordinary measures. I don't even krrow how long we can feed all these people and -- " "We're not the only ones who have that problem," said Roberts. "The rest of the world has it, too." "That's right. And they'll also have to take some action. If there were time we could put together some sort of international setup, but a thing like that takes time and we haven't got it. To start with, at least, it has to be a national action." "Have you talked to any of the other nations?" "Britain and Russia," said the President. "Some of the others. But not about the additional time tunnels. Once we get an idea or two shaped up we can see what some of the others think. Pool our thoughts. But we can't take much time. Whatever we do we'll have to get started on almost immediately and work as fast as we can." "You're sure there are people who can explain these tunnels -- whatever they are? Well enough so that our scientists and engineers can understand the principles involved? And the technology well enough -- hell, Mr. President, this is sheer insanity. American labor building time tunnels! This has got to be a bad joke." "I'm afraid," Henderson said, "it isn't a joke. We're in a mess, Terry. I don't know how bad. I imagine it will be a day or two before we have the full story and know what we really face. All I ask right now is that you think about it. Get a few ideas together. Figure out what you can do. I'll let you know about coming down. No use coming now. We have to get a few things sorted out before we can talk. I'll be in touch as soon as I know a little more about it." "Any time, Mr. President," said Roberts. "You let me know and I'll be there." The President hung up and buzzed Kim. "Ask Steve to come in," he said when she opened the door. He tilted back in his chair and locked his hands behind his head, staring at the ceiling. Less than five hours ago, he thought, he'd stretched out for a nap, looking forward to a lazy Sunday afternoon. He didn't get many lazy afternoons and when they came he treasured them. He had no more than shut his eyes than the world had fallen in on him. Christ, he asked himself, what am ! to do? What can I do? What's the wise thing to do? Without even trying a man could make a mistake or a number of mistakes and Henderson sensed that in this situation he could not afford mistakes. Steve Wilson came in. The President took his hands from behind his head and tilted forward in the chair. "Have you had the press in, Steve?" "No, sir, I haven't. They're po.unding on the door, but I haven't let them in. I didn't have the guts to face them with the little you gave me. I had hoped -- " "All right, then," said the President. "Your hopes paid off. You can give them all of it with two exceptions. You can't tell them why we have the guns planted. That still has to be simply normal precautions. And there must be no hint of Gale's suggestion that we go back in time with them." "I can't tell them, then, about why they're leaving the future? Nothing about the aliens?" The President shook his head, "Simply say that this point has not been sufficiently clarified and needs more study before anything can be said of it." "They won't like it," said Wilson, "but I guess I can manage. How about the TV? I have alerted the networks you may want time this evening." "How about ten o'clock? That's a little late, I suppose, but -- " "Ten will be all right." "Then you set it up. Tell them only ten or fifteen minutes." "I'll draft up something for you to look at." "You have your hands full, Steve. I'll ask Brad and Frank to put it together." "They'll want to know if you've talked with anyone." "I talked with Sterling in London and Menkov in Moscow. You can tell them Menkov has talked with the Russian equivalent of our Gale and has substantially the same story we got. London still hadn't been contacted by anyone when I spoke with Sterling. You can say I plan to talk with other national leaders before the day is out." "How about a cabinet meeting? The question is sure to come up." "I've been seeing cabinet members off and on during the last few hours. This is the first time since it's started there has been no one in this office. And I'll be conferring wkh people on the Hill, of course. Anything else you can think of, Steve?" "There'll probably be a lot of other . questions. I'll manage to field them. You can't anticipate them all. This will satisfy them." "Steve, what do you think of Gale? Your own personal opinion. How do you size him up?" "It's hard to know," said WilIF son. "No rear impression, I'd say. Except that I can't figure out where he'd gain anything by not telling the truth, or at least the truth as he saw it. However you look at it, those people out there are in serious trouble and they look to us ta help them. Maybe they have a thing or two to hide -- maybe it's not exactly as Gale told it, but I think mostly it is. Hard as it may be to accept. I'm inclined to believe him." "I hope you're right," said the President. "If we're wrong, they could make us awful fools." #. The chauffeured car went up the curving drive to the gracious mansion set well back from the street among flowers and trees. When it stopped before the portico the chauffeur got out and opened the rear door. The old man fumbled out of it, groping with his cane. He petulantly struck aside the chauffeur's proffered hand. "I can still manage to get out of a car alone," he panted, finally disengaging himself from it and standing, albeit a little shakily and unsure of himself, upon the driveway. "You wait right here for me," he said. "It may take a little while, but you wait right here for me." "Certainly, Senator," said the driver. "Those stairs, sir -- they look a little steep." "You stay right here," said Senator Andrew Oakes. "Go sit behind the wheel. Time comes when I can't climb stairs I'll go back home and let some young man have my seat. But not right yet," he said, wheezing a little. "Not right now. Maybe in another year or two. Maybe not. Depends on how I feel." He stumped toward the stairs, clomping his cane with weighty precision on the driveway. He mounted the First step and stood there for a moment before attempting the next one. As he mounted each step, he looked to either side of him, glaring into the landscape as if daring someone to remark on his progress. But no one was in sight except the chauffeur, who had gone back to sit behind the wheel, studiously not watching the old man's progress up the stairs, The door came open when he was crossing the pillared entrance. ' "I am glad to see you. Senator," said Grant Wellington, "but there was no need to make the trip. I could have come to your apartment." The Senator stopped, planting himself sturdily before his host. "Nice day for a drive," he said. "And you said you would be alone." Wellington nodded. "Family's in New England and it's the servants' day off. We'll be quite alone." "Good," said the Senator. "At my place you can never be sure. People in and out. Phones ringing all the time. This is better." He stumped into the entry. "To your right," said Wellington, closing the door. The old man went into the study, shuffled across the carpeting, dropped into a huge upholstered chair to one side of the fireplace. He laid his cane carefully on the floor beside him, looked around at the book-lined shelves, the huge executive desk, the comfortable furniture, the paintings on the wall. "You have got it good. Grant," he said. "I sometimes worry about that. Maybe you have it too good." "Meaning I won't fight? Will be afraid to dirty my hands?" "Something like that. Grant. But I tell myself Tm wrong. Did plenty of fighting in your day. Out in the business world." He gestured at the paintings. "Always suspicious of a man who owns a Renoir." "How about something to drink. Senator?" "Late enough in the afternoon," said the Senator judiciously, "for a splash of bourbon. Great drink, bourbon. American. Has character. I remember you drink scotch." "With you," said Wellington, "I drink bourbon." "You been listening to what is happening?" "Saw some of it on TV." "Man could stub his toe on a thing like that. He could stub his toe real bad." "You mean Henderson." "I mean everybody. Easy thing to do." Wellington brought the Senator his drink, went back to the bar to pour his own. The old man settled more deeply into the chair, fondling the glass. He took a drink, puffed out his cheeks in appreciation. "For a scotch man," he said, "you carry a good brand." "I took my cue from you," said Wellington, coming back and sitting on a sofa. "I imagine the man at sixteen hundred has a lot on his mind. Maybe more than he can handle. Batch of decisions to be made. Yes, sir, a lot of them." "I don't envy him," said Wellington. "Most terrible thing that can happen to a man with election coming up next year. He'll have that on his mind and it won't help him any. Trouble is he has to say something, has to do something. Nobody else has to, but he has to." "If you are trying to say that I should say nothing or do nothing, you are succeeding very well," said Wellington. "Never try to be subtle. Senator. You're not very good at it." "Well, I don't know," said the Senator. "You can't come straight out and tell a man to keep his mouth shut." IF "If these people are really from the future -- " "Oh, they're from the future, all right. Where else could they come from?" "Then you can't go wrong on them," said Wellington. "They are our descendants. What they are doing is like a bunch of kids running home after they got hurt." "Well, now, I don't know," said the Senator. "Anyway they're not exactly what I came to talk about. Not the people -- but old Sam up there in the White House. He's the one who's got to do something about them and he's bound to make mistakes. We got to watch carefully and evaluate those mistakes. We can jump on some of them and some of them we can't. There may be even a few things he does that we have to go along with -- we can't be too unreasonable. But the thing right nbw is not to commit ourselves. You know and I know there are a lot of people want that nomination next summer to run against old Sam and I mean, if I can imagine it, that you are the one who gets it. Some of the other boys will think they see some opportunities in what the man up there does and they'll get anxious and start shooting off their mouths -- and I tell you. Grant, that the people won't remember who was first, but the one who happens to be right." "Of course I appreciate your concern," said Wellington, "but it happens that you made this trip for nothing. I have no intention whatever of takiiig a position. I'm not sure right now there is a position one can take." The Senator held out his empty glass. "If you don't mind," he said. "Another little splash." Wellington poured another little splash and the Senator settled back again. "That matter of a position," he said, "is something that is going to require some long and prayerful thought. It has not yet become apparent, but there will be positions practically begging to be taken and a man must look over good and select very carefully. What you say abouY these folks being our descendants is ail well and good. You being a man whose family history is long and proud would think that way, of course. But you got to remember that there are a lot of people with little family history and not proud of what they have and these people -- who make up the greatest not going to give a damn about these particular descendants. Maybe them being our descendants will make it all the worse. There are a lot of families these days that are having lots of trouble with their own immediate progeny. ple are already through the tunnels and they are still pouring through. But while we can hold up our hands in pious horror and ask how we are going to take care of them, theeal gut reaction will begin to have an effect on the economy. Food may suddenly get scarce and other things, too. Then prices will goTip and there'll be a housing problem and a labor problem and there won't be goods enough to go around. And while all this is now just economic talk, in  little while it will cease to be just talk and every man and woman in this fair land will feel the impact of it and that's when there's hell to pay. And that's the time when a man like you must pick out his positionnd study all the angles before settling on one." "Good God!" said Wellington. "This thing happening out there is made up of our own people fleeing back to us -- and here we sit, the two of us, and try to figure out a good, safe political position -- " "Politics," said the Senator, "is a very complicated and a most practical business. You've got to be hard-headed about it. You can't ever afford to get emotional about it. That's the first thing that you must remember -- don't get emotional about anything at all. Oh, it's all right to appear to be emotional. Sometimes that has a certain appeal for the electorate. But before you can afford to feel anything you must have every angle figured out. Emotions are for effect only." "The way you put it. Senator, is not too attractive. It leaves a slightly dirty taste." "Sure, I know," said the Senator. "I know about that dirty taste myself. You just shut your mind to it, is all. It's all right, of course, to be a great statesman and a humanitarian, but before you get to be a statesman you have to be a dirty politician. You have to get elected first. And you never get elected without feeling just a little dirty." He placed the glass on the table beside his chair, fumbled for his cane and found it, heaved himself erect. "Now, you mind," he said, "before you go saying anything you just check with me. I been through all this many times before. I guess you could say I have developeda political instinct for the jugular and I am seldom wrong. Up there on the Hill we hear things. There are some real good pipelines. I'll know when anything's about to happen -- so we'll have time to study it." I # The press conference had gone well. Arrangements had been made for the President's TV appearance. The clock on the wall ticked over to # P.M. The teletypes went on clucking softly. Wilson said to Judy, "ou'd betIF ter call it a day. It's time to close up shop." "How about yourself?" "I'll hang on for a while. Take my car. Til pick it up at your place." He reached into his pocket, pulled out the keys and tossed them to her. "When you get there," Judy said, "come up for a drink. I'll be up and waiting." "It may be late." "If it's too late, why bother going home? You left your toothbrush last time." "Pajamas," he said. "When did you ever need pajamas?" He grinned at her lazily. "Okay," he said. "Toothbrush, no pajamas." "Maybe," said Judy, "it'll make" up for this afternoon." "What this afternoon?" "I told you, remember. What I planned to do." "Oh, that." "Yes, oh, that. I've never done it that way." "You're a shameless child. Now run along." "The kitchen will be sending coffee and sandwiches to the press lounge. Ask them nice and they'll throw a crust to you." He sat and watched her go. She walked surely, but with a daintiness that always intrigued and puzzled him, as if she were a sprite who was consciously trying to make an Earth creature of herself. He shuffled the loose papers on the desk into a pile and stacked them to one side. He sat quietly thi and listened to the strange mutterings of the place. Somewhere a phone rang. There was the distant sound of someone walking. Out in the lounge someone was .typing aiiu against the wall the wire machines went on with their clacking. It was all insane, he told himself. The entire business was stark, staring crazy. No one in his right mind would believe a word of it. Time tunnels and aliens out of space were the sort of junk the juniors watched on television. Could it, he wondered,be a matter of delusion, of mass hysteria? When the sun rose tomorrow would it all be gone and the world be back on the old footing? He shoved back the chair and stood up. Judy's deserted console had a couple of lights flashing and he let them flicker. He strode out to the corridor and followed it to the outer door. In the garden outside the heat of the summer day was waning and long shadows stretched across the lawn. The flower beds lay in all their glory -- roses, heliotrope, geraniums, nicotiana, columbines and daisies. He stood, looking across the parkjto where the Washington Monument reared its classic whiteness. Behind him he heard a footstep and swung around. A woman stood a short distance away. She wore a white robe that came down to her sandaled feet. "Miss Gale," he said, a little startled. "What a pleasant surprise." "I hope," she said, "I have done nothing wrong. No one stopped me. Is it all right to be here?" "Certainly. As a guest -- " "I had to see the garden. I had read so much of it." "You have never been here, then?" She hesitated. "Yes, I have. But it was not the same. It was nothing like this." "Well," he said, "I suppose that things do change." "Yes," she said, "they do." "Is something wrong?" "No, I guess not." She hesitated again. "I see you don't understand. I can't imagine there is any reason why I shouldn't tell you." "Tell me what? Something about this place?" "It's this," she said. "In my time, five hundred years ahead, there isn't any garden. There isn't any White House." He stared at her. "See?" she said. "You don't believe it. You won't believe me. We have no nations there -- we just have one big nation, although that's not exactly right. There aren't any nations and there isn't any White House. A few ragged. broken walls is all, a piece of rusted fence sticking from the ground that you stub your toe on. There isn't any park and there aren't any flower beds. Now can you understand? Can you know what all this means to me?" "But how? When?" "Not right away," she said. "Not for a century or more. And now it may never happen. The history you will make will not quite be ours." She stood there, a thin slip of a girl in her chaste white robe, speaking of a future when there would be no White House. He shook his head, bewildered. "How much do you understand," he asked,' "of this timetrack business?" "There are equations that you have to know to grasp it all," she said. "There are, I suppoise, only a few people who really do. But basically it's quite simple. It's a cause and effect situation and once you change the cause or, more likely, many causes, as we must have done in coming here -- " He made a motion of futility with his hand. "I still can't believe it," he said. "Not just the time track, but all the rest of it. I woke up this morning and I was going on a picnic. You know what a picnic is?" "No," she said. "I don't know what a picnic is. So we're even." "Some day I'll take you on a picme. IF "I wish you would," she said. "Is it something nice?" ## Bentley Price came home a bit befuddled, but somewhat triumphant, for he had talked his way past a roadblock set up by the military, had yelled a jeep off the road and honked his way through two blocks clotted by refugees and spectators who had stayed in the area despite all efforts by the MPs to move them out. The driveway was partly blocked by a car, but he made his way around it, clipping a rose bush in the process. Night had fallen and it had been a busy day and all Bentley wanted was to get into the house and collapse on a bed. But first he had to clear the car of cameras and other equipment, for it would never do, with so many strangers in the neighborhood, to leave the stuff locked in the car, as had been his habit. A locked car would be no deterrent to someone really bent on thievery. He hung three cameras by their straps around his neck and was hauling a heavy accessories bag out of the car when he saw, with outrage, what had happened to Edna's flower bed. A gun stood in the center of it, its wheels sunk deep into the soil, and around it stood the gun crew. The gunsite was brightly illuminated by a large spotlight that had been hung high in the branches of a tree and there could be no doubt of the havoc that had been wrought upon the flowers. Bentley charged purposefully upon the gun, brushing aside one astounded cannoneer, to square off, like an embattled bantam rooster, before a young man who had bars on his shoulders. "You have your nerve," said Bentley. "Coming here when the owner happens to be gone -- " "Are you the owner, sir?" asked the captain of the gun crew. "No," said Bentley. "I am not, but I am responsible. I was left here to look out for the joint and -- " "We are sorry, ir," said the officer, "if we have displeased you, but we had our orders, sir." Bentley yelled at him, "You had orders to set up this contraption in the middle of Edna's flower bed? I suppose the orders said to set up in the middle of a flower bed; not a few feet forward or a few feet back, but in the middle of a bed a devoted woman has slaved to grow to perfection -- " "No, not precisely that," said the officer. "We were ordered to cover the mouth of the time tunnel and to do that we needed a clear line of fire." "That don't make no sense," said Bentley. "Why would you want to cover the tunnel with all them poor people coming out?" "I don't know," said the officer. "No one bothered to explain to me. I simply got my orders and Tm about to carry them out, flower bed or no Hower bed, owner or no owner." "Somehow," said Benttey, "you don't sound like no gentleman to me and that's what you're supposed to be, ain't it, an officer and a gentleman? There wouldn't be any gentleman set up no gun in the middle of a flower bed and there wouldn't be any officer aim his gun at a bunch of refugees and -- " A shrill scream split the night. Bentley spun and saw that something was happening in the tunnel. People were still coming out of it, but they weren't marching out four and five abreast as before. They were running out, fighting to get out and overriding them and plowing through them was a horror that Bentley never quite got sorted in his mind. He had the impression of wicked teeth and mighty talons -- of terrible power and ferocity -- and quite by habit his hands went down to grip a camera and bring it to his eye. Through the lens he saw that there was not one, but two of the creatures, one almost through the tunnel and the other close behind. He saw the bodies of people flying through the air like limp dolls thrown about by children and others were crushed beneath the monster's treading feet. And he saw writhing tentacles, as if the creatures could not quite make up their minds if they were animals or octopi. Sharp orders rang out behind him and almost at his elbow the gun belched sudden flame that lit up all the houses and the yards and gardens. A thunderclap knocked him to one side and as he hit the ground and rolled he saw a number of things. The tunnel had suddenly blinked out in an explosion that was little more than a continuation of the thunderclap, although it was more mind-numbing and nerve-shaking. There were dead people and a dead creature that smoked as if it had been fried. But while one of the animals lay on the lawn beneath the great oak tree that had marked the tunnel, the other was very much" alive. That one and the gun and its crew became mixed up and people were running, screaming in terror. Bentley scrambled to his feet and saw the gun crew dead, ripped and flung and trampled. The gun had tipped over. Smoke still trailed from its muzzle. From down the street came shrill, high screams and he caught -- for an instant only -- the flickering motion of something large and dark whipping across acorner of a yard. A picket fence exploded in a shower of white slivers as the dark thing vanished through it. He sprinted around the corner of the house and burst through the kitchen door, clawing for the phone, dialing almost by instinct, praying the line was open. IF "Global News," said a raspy voice. "Manning." "Tom, this is Bentley." "Yes, Bentley. What is it now? Where are you?" "I am home. Out at Joe's place. And I got some news." "Are you sober?" "Well, I stopped by a place I know and had a drink or two. Sunday, you know. None of the regular places open. And when I come home I found a gun crew right in Edna's flower bed -- " "Hell," said Manning, "that's no news. We had that a couple of hours ago. They set up guns at all the tunnels for some reason." "I know the reason." "Well, now, that's nice," said Manning. "Yeah, there was a monster come through the tunnel and -- " "A monster? What kind of monster?" "Well, I don't know," said Bentley. "I never got a real good look at it. And there wasn't only one monster. There was two of them. One of them the gun killed, but the other got away. It killed the gun crew and tipped over the gun and all the people ran screaming and it got away. I saw it bust right through a picket fence -- " "Now, Bentley," said Manning, "stop talking so fast. Take it a little slow and tell me. You say one got away. There is a monster loose -- " "There sure is. He killed the gun crew and maybe other people, too. The tunnel is shut down and there's a dead beast out there." "Now tell me about the monster. What kind of monster was it?' "I can't tell you that," said Bentley, "but I got pictures of it." "Of the dead one, I suppose." "No, the live one," said Bentley, his voice bright with scorn. "I wouldn't never bother with no dead monster when there's a live one. "Now, listen, Bentley. Listen closely. Are you in shape to drive?" "Sure, I'm in shape to drive. I drove out here, didn't I?" "All right. I'll send someone else out there. And you -- I want you to get in here as quickly as you can with the pictures you have. And Bentley -- " "Yes?" "You're sure you're right? There really was a monster?" "I'm sure I'm right," said Bentley piously. "I only had a drink or two." # . Steve Wilson strode into the press louhge in search of coffee and sandwiches. A dozen or so newsmen were still there. "Anything new, Steve?" asked Carl Anders of AP. Wilson shook his head. "Everything seems to be quiet. If anything of consequence were going on I think I would know it." "'And tell us?" "And tell you," Wilson said sharply. "You know damn well we've played fair with you." "Yeah? How about the guns?" "Simply routine emergency precaution. How about some sandwiches or did you guys eat them all?" "Over there in the corner, Steve," said John Gates of the Washington Post. Wilson piled two sandwiches on a plate and got a cup of coffee. As he came back across the room Gates slid over on the davenport where he had been lounging and patted a place beside him. Wilson sat down, putting his plate and cup on the coffee table. Anders came over to take a nearby chair. Henry Hunt, the New York Times man, sat down on the davenport on the other side of Wilson. "It's been a long day, Steve," he said. Wilson bit into a sandwich. "Rough," he said. "What's going on right now?" asked Anders. "Perhaps quite a bit. Nothing that I know of. There's nothing I can tell, nothing that I know." Gates chuckled, "You can talk, can't you?" "Sure I can talk. But I can't give you anything. You guys know procedure. If I should happen to say something that makes sense it's off the record." "Well, hell -- yes, of course," said Anders. "'You newspapered yourself. You know how it is." "I know how it is," said Wilson. "What bothers me," said Hunt, "is how anyone, even the President, knows where to take hold of a thing like this. There's no precedent. Nothing like this has ever happened before, nothing remotely like it. As a rule a crisis will build up -- you can see it coming and be halfway ready for it. But not this one. This one exploded without warning." "That's bothering me, too," said Anders. "How do you find a handle?" "You're stuck with it," said Wilson. "You can't just ignore it. You do the best you can. You try to find out what it's all about. In a case like this you have to be somewhat skeptical and that doesn't allow you to move as fast as you'd like to move. You have to talk with a lot of people -- you have to check around and develop some sort of judgment. I suspect you might pray a lot." "Is that what the President did?" asked Anders. "That's not what I said. I was just trying to think through a hypothetical question." "What do you think of it, Steve?" asked Gates. "You, not the President." "It's hard to tell," said Wilson. "It's all too new. I found myself just a while ago wondering if it IF i was all delusion, if it might not be gone by morning. Of course, I know it won't be. But it boggles the mind to think of it. I have brought myself to believe these people are really from the future. But even if they're not -- they're here and we have to deal with them. I suppose it doesn't really matter where they came from." "You, personally, still have doubts?" "You mean are they from the future? Their explanation holds up. Why should they lie? What would they gain by lying?" "But, still you -- " "Now, wait a minute. I don't want you to start speculating that the answer we have is wrong. That would be unrealistic. This is among friends, remember? Just sitting down and talking." The pressroom door came open. Wilson looked up. Brad Reynolds stood in the doorway. His face wore a pitiful, stricken look. "Steve," he said. "Steve, I have to see you." "What's going on?" asked Hunt. Through the open door came a frantic clanging as a bell on one of the teletypes signaled a bulletin. Wilson rose to his feet so swiftly that he joggled the coffee table, tipping his cup. Coffee ran across the table and dripped onto the carpet. He strode across the room and gripped Reynolds by the arm. "A monster got through!" Reynolds blurted out. "Global has it. It's on radio." "For the love of God," said Wilson. He glanced back over his shoulder at the newsmen and saw that they had heard. "What's this about monsters?" shouted Anders. "You never told us about any monsters." "Later," said Wilson savagely. He pushed Reynolds back into the pressroom and slammed the door behind him. "I thought you and Frank were working on the TV speech," he said. "How did you -- " "The radio," said Reynolds. "We heard it on the radio. What will we do about the TV talk? He can't go on TV without mentioning this and it's only an hour away." "We'll take care of that," said Wilson. "Does Henderson know?" "Frank went to tell him. I came to you." "Do you know what happened? Where it happened?" "Down in Virginia. Two of them came through the tunnel. The gun got one of them. The other one got through. It killed the gun crew -- " "You mean one of them is running loose?" Reynolds nodded miserably. #I . Tom Manning turned from his desk, and ran fresh paper into the typewriter. He wrote: Third Lead: Monster Washington, D.C. (Global) -- An alien beast is loose on Earth tonight. No one knows where it is. It came out of a time tunnel in Virginia and disappeared artillery piece posted in front of the tunnel, placed to prevent the very thing that happened. A second beast came, through with it, but this one was killed by the gun. There are unconfirmed reports that several other people, in addition to the gun crew, were killed by the tunnel monster. Eyewitnesses said tht the beast was large and unbelievably quick in its movements. No one got a good look at it. "It moved too fast for anyone really to see it," said one eyewitness. Within seconds after emerging from the tunnel it disappeared. There is no clue as to where it may be now. "Mr. Manning," said someone at his elbow. Manning looked up. A copy boy stood there. "Mr. Price's pictures," said the copy boy, handing them to him. Manning looked at the one on top and drew in his breath sharply. "Jesus H. Christ," he said aloud to himself, "will you look at that!" It was the sort of picture that some press flack would dream up to advertise a horror movie, but without the phoniness of such a drawing. The creature was in motion even in the still photo, and probably moving fast, for there was a sense of power and swiftness in it. Bentley's super-fast film had frozen it in all its ferocity -- the fangs, the talons, the nest of writhing tentacles positioned around its squat, thick neck. The very shape of it was eviK It was beast, but more than beast. There was in it some quality that sent a shiver up Manning's spine -- not a shiver of horror, but of outlandish, unreasoning fear. Manning swung back to the desk and laid the pictures on its top. With a swipe of his hand he fanned them out. All of them were horrifying. A couple of them showed the fleeing crowd -- dark shadows in a hurry. Another showed, somewhat less well than Manning would have liked, the shambles where the tunnel mouth had been, with the dead creature crumpled on top of the trampled human bodies. "That goddamned Price," said Manning soulfully. "He never got a shot of the monster and the gun crew." #  "We can't cancel your TV appearance," Wilson told the President. "The situation is bad enough right now. It will be wqrse IF if we cancel. We can fix it with a paragraph or two. Say that the Virginia incident is too recent to comment on. Give assurance that it will be run down, that the beast will be found and killed. That we're already closing in on it -- " "But we aren't," said the President. "We don't know where the hell it is. There's been no report of it. You remember what Gale said -- how fast they could move. Traveling in the dark, this thing could be deep into the mountains of West Virginia and well hidden before daylight." "There's more reason right now than there ever was," said Frank Howard, who had been working on the speech text with Reynolds, "for you to talk to the people. The entire country will be in ah uproar and we'll have to tame them down." "You know, Frank," said the President, don't seem to care right now to tame the country down. Can# you get it through your head that this is not a political matter? It's far more than that. I can't be sure just how much danger the country may be facing, but I know that there is danger. I've asked Gale to step down here and tell us what he thinks. He knows more than we do." "What you refuse to understand, sir," said Wilson, "is that the country's waiting to hear from .you. The people would like some sort of assurance, but if you can't give them that you can let them know that we are on the job. Seeing and hearing you will be visible proof that everything has not entirely gone to pot. They need some physical evidence that the government is aware of what is going on -- " The box on the President's desk purred. "Yes?" Henderson said. "A call for Mr. Wilson sir, an urgent call. Can he answer it in there?" The President lifted the receiver and handed it to Wilson. "This is Henry," said Hunt's voice. "Sorry for breaking in, but I thought you should know. One of the other tunnels failed out in Wisconsin. It just came in on AP." "Failed, you say? Not like Virginia. Nothing came through?" "Apparently. The message said it failed. Blinked out. Wasn't there any more." "Thank you, Henry. Thanks for telling me." He said to the President, "Another tunnel is out. Cut off. disappeared. I suppose the people did it at the other end. Gale told us, if you remember, that they had men on guard who wereprepared to collapse the tunnels if anything went wrong." "I do recall," said the President. "The invaders must be getting at them. I don't like to think about it. It must take a lot of courage to do a thing like that. The ones at the other end of the Virginia tunnel apparently didn't have the chance." "About the speech, sir," said Reynolds. "The time rs getting short." "All right. I suppose I have to. Do the best you can. But don't say anything about our having it tracked down and cornered." "You'll have to tell them what it is," said Wilson. "There has to be an explanation of what the animal is. We'll have to tell the people it's beasts such as this that the tunnel folks are fleeing." "There'll be a scream to shut down the tunnels," Reynolds said. "Let them scream," said the President. "We don't know of any way of shutting them except firing into them. And we can't fire into crowds of refugees without reason -- our own refugees." "In a short while," said Howard, "there may be no need. One tunnel has shut down of itself. There will be others. In a few hours maybe all of them will close," "I hope not," said the President. "No matter what else happens, no matter what problems they may bring us, I can't help but hope all the people do get through." Kim stuck her head in the door. "Mr. Gale is here, sir." "Send him in." Gale came into the room. He stumbled a little as he started across the room, then stiffened and marched to within a few feet .of the desk. His face was haggard. "I am so sorry, sir," he said. "I can't properly express the regrets of myself or of my people. We thought we had taken safeguards." "Please sit down, Mr. Gale," said the President. "You can help us now. We need your help." Gale sat carefully in the chair. "You mean about the alien. You want to know more about it. I could have told you more this afternoon, but there was so much to tell and I never thought -- " "I'll accept your word for that. You did make provisions to guard against what happened. Perhaps you did the best you could. Now we need your help to find this creature. We need to know something about its habits, what we can expect. We have to hunt it down." "Luckily," said Reynolds, "there's only one of them. When we get it -- " "It is, unfortunately," said Gale, "not as lucky as you think. The aliens are bisexual creatures." "You mean -- " "That's exactly what I mean," said Gale. "The young are hatched from eggs. Any of the adults can lay fertilized eggs. And # them in great numbers. Once hatched, the young need no care -- or at least are given no care." "Then," said the President, "we must find it before it starts laying eggs." IF "That is right," said Gale, "although I fear you may already be too late. From what we know of them I would suspect that the alien would start laying eggs within a few hours after its emergence from the tunnel. It would recognize the crisis. The aliens are highly intelligent. This one knows that it is the sole representative of its species in this particular time and that the future of the species here may depend on it alone. This will not be an intellectual realization only -- its body will also respond to the situation. All its physical resources will be aimed now at reproduction. Furthermore, realizing that eventually it will be hunted down and slain, it will scatter its clutches of eggs over as much territory as it can. It will locate them in the least accessible spots. It is fighting, you understand, not only for itself, but for the species. Perhaps not at all for itself, but only for the species.". "I would suspect," aid the President, "that it might be heading for the mountains. But that supposition is based only on my knowledge there are mountains to the west." Gale said, "It has as good a geographical knowledge of this area as any of us here. The geography is the same five hundred years from now as it is today." "Then," said the President, "assuming that it would have headed for the mountains, we must not only head it off, but we will have to give some thought to evacuating the people from that area." "You're thinking nuclear," said Wilson. "Blanketing the area with bombs. You can't do that, sir. Only as a last resort -- and perhaps not even then. The tonnage would have to be massive and the fallout -- " "You're jumping to conclusions, Steve." Henderson turned to Gale. "You told us your people could supply us with specifications for the building of the tunnels." "That is true," said Gale. "The point is this -- if we are to do anything at all we should do it quickly. If we delay, a dangerous social and economic, not to say political, situation may build up. And this matter of the alien has given us even less time than I thought we had. For that reason it seems to me important that we have the specifications and talk with your people who can explain them to us as soon as possible." "Mr. President," said Reynolds, "we have less than two hours to get your talk shaped up." "Certainly,'" said the President. "I am sorfy to have held you up. Steve, you stay a moment, please." "Thank you, sir," said Howard, following Reynolds toward the door. "Now, where were we?" said the President. "Oh, yes, I was saying that we need to get to work on the matter of the tunnels. I plan to have some of our physicists and engineers come in and confer with your people." "Does that mean that you will help us?" "I would think so, although at the moment Tm in no position to make a positive commitment. But I don't see much else that we can do. We can't keep you here. We can't possibly absorb you into our population. The first step would seem to be to talk with your physicists and find out what's involved. Until we know thatwe can't do any planning. And there's also the matter of selecting sites." "We have that all worked out," said Gale. "Our geologists have made a study of the Miocene terrain. Stable land surfaces have been pinpointed and mapped out. We can't be entirely sure, of course, but our people, operating within their best knowledge, have done at least the preliminary work." "Then," said Henderson, "we won't have to worry about that. But we do need something to get started on." "The men you want to talk with," said Gale, "were among the first to come through the tunnel. I can give you their names,but I'll have to go with whoever is sent to contact them. Without me they'd refuse to come. You can understand our situation, sir. We could take no chances of our men or their information falling into other than official hands." Henderson frowned. "I'm reluctant to let you leave. You can, of course, walk out of here any time you wish -- you are in no way detained. But our information so far is sketchy. You have done an excellent job of supplying us with it, of course, but new situations can arise." "I understand," said Gale. "Alice, iperhaps. They know her and if she carried a note from me on a White House letterhead -- " "That would be fine," said the President, "if she would be willing. Steve, I wonder if you'd undertake to accompany her." "Certainly, sir. But my car's not here. Judy drove it home." "You can have a White House car and driver. Perhaps we'd better send along a secret service man. It may seem a silly precaution, but a lot is riding on this." He put up his hand and made a gesture of wiping his face. "I hope to God, Mr. Gale," he said, "that you and I, your people and our people, can work together on this. This is just the beginning of it. It's going to get rough. There'll be all sorts of pressure, all kinds of frenzied screaming. Have you got a good strong back and a good thick skin?" "I think I have," said Gale, trying to sound sure of himself. IF # . The attorney gcncraFs ' visitor was an old and valued friend. They had been roommates at Harvard and in the years since then had kept in touch. Reilly Douglas knew that in large part he owed his cabinet appointment to the good offices and perhaps the political pressure commanded by Clinton Chapman, a man who headed one of the nation's most prestigious industrial complexes and was a heavy contributor to the party's funds. "I know this must be a busy time for you," Chapman told Douglas, "and under the circumstances I'll take very little of your time." "It's good to see a friendly face," said Douglas. "I don't mind telling you I don't go along with all that's supposed to be happening. Not that there's nothing to it, for there is. But we're rushing into things. The President has accepted at face value this story of time traveling and -- while I can see no other explanation at the moment -- it seems to me there should be some further study of the matter before we commit ourselves." "Well, now," said Chapman, "I agree with you -- I couldn't agree more completely. I called in some of my physicists this afternoon. You know, of course, that among our several branches, we have a respectable corps of research people. Well, as I was saying, I called a few of them together earlier today and we did some brain-storming on this time-tunnel business -- " "And they told you it was impossible." "Not exactly that," said Chapman. "Not quite that at all. Not that any of them can see how it's done, but they told me -- and this is something that sure surprised me -- that the nature of time flows has been a subject of some quiet study and scholarly dispute for a number of years. They talked about a lot of things I didn't understand and used terms I'd never heard before and some that have slipped my mind. They talked about the principle of wave retardation and causality and there was quite a lot of discussion about time-symmetrical field equations and the upshot of it all seemed to be that while, on the basis of present knowledge and research what seems to be happening is plain impossible, there is really nothing hard and fast that says it can't be done." "So what Gale says could be true," said Douglas. "There seems no other explanation, but my point is that we should not move until we know it's true. And, personally, while I could think of no other explanation, I found a great deal of difficulty in believing it." "Just exactly what," asked Chapman, "is the government thinking about doing? Building new tunnels, I understand, and sending the people of the future still farther back in time. Do they have any idea of what it's going to cost? Or how long it might take?" "They have no idea," said Douglas. "Not a single figure. No inkling of what's involved. But if anything can be done we will have to do it. The people from the future can't be kept here. It would be impossible to contain them. Somehow we must get rid of them." "My hunch," said Chapman, "is that it will cost a bundle. And there'll be hell's own uproar about the money it will take. The public is more tax conscious than it has ever been and something like this could bring about a confiscatory tax." "You're getting at something, Clint." "Yes, I suppose I am. A gamble, you might say." "You always gambled well," said Douglas. "It's going to take a lot of money," Chapman said. "Tax money," Douglas said. "I know. Tax money. And that could mean we'll lose the election a year from now. You know I've always been rather generous in my campaign contributions and have rarely asked for favors. I'm not asking for one now. But under certain circumstances I think of as a somewhat more substantial contribution. Not only to the party, but to the country." "That would be very generous of you," said Douglas, not entirely sure that he was happy with the turn the talk had taken. "I'd have to have some figures and some facts, of course," said Chapman, "but unless the cost is higher than I could manage, I think I would be agreeable to taking over the construction of the tunnels. That is, if the tunnels can be built." "In return for which?" "In return for which," said Chapman, "I should like exclusive future license for thebuilding of tunnels and the operation of them." Douglas frowned. "I don't know," he said. "I can't be certain of the legality of an arrangement of that sort. And there is the international angle -- " "If you applied yourself to it," said Chapman, "you could figure out a way. I am sure you could. You're a damn good lawyer, Reilly" "There must be something I am missing. I don't see why you should want the license. What good would the tunnels be?" "After all of this is over," Chapman said, "people will be considerably intrigued with the idea of traveling in time. A brand new way of traveling. A way of getting to places they could never get to before." IF "But that's insane!" "Not as insane as you might think. Imagine what a sportsman privilege of going back to prehistoric days for a spot of hunting. Universities would want to send teams of paleontologists back to the Age of Reptiles to study and photograph the dinosaurs. Classical historians would sell their souls to go back and learn what really happened at the siege of Troy."  "And the church," said Douglas, rather acidly, "might want a firstclass ticket for a seat at the Crucifixion." "I suppose that, too," Chapman agreed. "And, as you imply, there would be times when it might get slightly sticky. Rules and regulations would have to be worked out and certain safeguards set up not to change the course of history, but -- " "It wouldn't work," said Douglas, flatly. "Time traveling, we are told, works in only one direction, back toward the past. Once you go back you can't return." "I'm not so sure of that," said Chapman. "Maybe that's what you were told. Maybe that's true now. But my physicists assured me this afternoon that if you can move in time at all, you can move in both directions. They were sure of that. Sure it could be worked out. It simply makes no sense. they said, that the flow would go only one way. If you can go into the past you certainly can go into the future. That's what we have right now." "Clint, I can't go along on this." "You can think about it. You can see how things develop. You can keep me well informed. If it should work out, there would be something very worthwhile in it for you." # . "So now you'll explain to me, perhaps," said Alice Gale, "what a picnic is. You told me this afternoon you had been going on a picnic." The secret service man hunched forward on the seat. "Has Steve been talking picnic to you? Don't ever chance it with him." "But, Mr. Black," she said, "I don't even know what a picnic is." "It's fairly simple," Wilson told her. "You pack a lunch and you go out in a park or woods and you eat it there." "But we did that in our own time," she said. "Although we did not call it picnic. I don't think we called it anything at all. I never heard it call anytling at all." The car rolled slowly down the drive, heading for the gate. The driver sat stiffly erect. The car slowed to a halt and a soldier came to the driver's window. Other military men were stationed by the gate. "What is going on?" asked Wilson. "I hadn't heard of this." Black shrugged. "Someone got the wind up. This place is closed in tight. It's stiff with military. Mortars are scattered through the park and no one knows what else." "Does the President know about it?" "I'm not sure," said Black. "No one might have thought to tell him." The soldier stepped back and the gate came open and the car went through. It proceeded silently along the street, heading for the bridge, Wilson peered through the window. "Where is everyone?" he asked. "A Sunday night and the tourist season and there's no one here." "You heard the news," said Black. "Of course I heard the news." "Everyone's holed up. Everyone's indoors. They expect an alien to come leaping at them." "We had such lovely places where we could go on picnics," said Alice Gale. "So many parks, so much wild land. More open spaces than you have. Not as crowded as you have it now, although somehow I like it crowded. There are so many people -- there is so much to see." "You are enjoying it," said Wilson. "Yes, of course. Although I have the feel of guilt in my enjoyment. My father and I should be with our people. But I was telling you of our time. It was a good age to live in. Until the aliens came, of course. And even then, in the earlier days, before there were so many of them. They were not at our throats all the time, you know, except in the last few years. Although I don't think we ever were unaware of them. We always talked about them. We never really forgot them, no matter what. All my life, I think, they have been in my mind. There were periods in the later years when we were obsessed with them. We continually looked over our shoulders to see if they were there -- we were never free of them. We talked of them and studied them." "You. say you studied them," said Wilson. "Exactly how did you study them? Who studied them?" "Why," she said, "biologists, of course. At times they came into possession of an alien's body. And the psychologists and psychiatrists also examined what they could. The evolutionists -- " "Evolutionists?" "Certainly, evolutionists. For these aliens were very strange evolutionarily. They seemed to be consciously in control of their evolutionary processes. There are occasions when you are inclined to suspect they can order their evolutionary processes. My father, I think, explained some of this to you. In all their long history they apparently gave up no advanIF tage they had gained. They made no compromises. They kept what they had and needed and added whatever else they could develop. This, of course, means that they can adapt to almost any condition or situation. They respond almost instantly to stresses and emergencies." "You almost sound," said Black, "as if you -- well, not you, perhaps, but your people -- might admire these creatures." She shook her head. "We hated them and feared them. That is quite apparent, for we ran away from them. But, yes, I suppose we might have felt something like awed admiration, although we did not admit it. I don't think anyone ever said it." "Lincoln is coming up ahead," said Wilson. "You know about Lincoln, of course." "Yes," she said. "My father has been staying in Lincoln's bedroom." The memorial loomed ahead, softly lit against the night. The statue sat brooding in the marble chair. The car moved past and the memorial was left behind. "If we can find the time," said Wilson, "in the next few days, we'll go out to see it. Or have you seen it? You said the White House no longer existed where you came from." "It did not, nor did the memorial," she said. "Part of it is left, but less than half. The stones have crumbled." "What is this?" asked Black. "In the time the people of the tunnel came from," said Wilson, "Washington had been destroyed. The White House is a wilderness." "But that's impossible. I don't understand. A war?" "Not a war," said Alice Gale. "It's hard to explain, even if you know history and I have only small understanding of it. But I have read a little. Economic collapse, perhaps, is the best name for what happened. Probably some ethical collapse occurred as well. A time of mounting inflation that reached ridiculous heights, matched by a mounting cynicism, a loss of faith in government, which contributed to the failure of government, a growing gap of resources and understanding between the rich and poor -- all these brought about a social disaster. Not in this nation alone, but in all the major powers. One after one they fell. The economy was gone -- governments vanished and mobs ran in the street. Blind mobs struck out -- not at anything in particular but at anything at all. You must excuse me, please -- I tell it very badly." "And this is all ahead of us?" asked Black. "Not now," said Wilson. "Not any more it isn't. Or at least it doesn't have to be. We're on a different time track now." "You," said Black, "are as bad as she is. You don't either one, make sense." : "I'm sorry, Mr. Black," said Alice. "Don't mind me," said Black. "I'm not the intellectual sort. I'm just an educated cop. Steve will tell you that."  # . The Reverend Dr. Angus Windsor was a good man. He stood in gra#e and was distinguished in good works. He was pastor of a church that had its roots in wealth, a long history and a certain elegance, yet this did not prevent him from going where the need was greatest -- outside his own parish, certainly, for in that particular parish need was seldom evident. He was seen in the ghettos and was present where the young demonstration marchers had fallen beneath the clubs of the police. When he heard of a family that had need of food he showed up at the door with a bag of groceries and before he left managed to find a few dollars in his pockets that he could get along without. He was a regular visitor at prisons and the lonely old folks put away to die in rest homes were familiar with his stately tread, his stooped shoulders, his long white hair and patient face. That he was not at all adverse to good publicity, sometimes even seemed to court it, was held against him by some of the influential members of his congregation, who subscribed to the belief that this characteristic was unseemly in him. But he went his way without paying attention to this criticism. He was once supposed to have told an old, dear friend that it was a small price to pay for the privilege of doing good -- although whether he meant by price the publicity or the criticism was not entirely clear. So it was thought by the newsmen present not at #I unusual when, late in the evening, he appeared at the site where the tunnel had been closed upon the emergence of the aliens. The newsmen clustered around the old man. "What are you doing here, Dr. Windsor?" asked one of them. "I came," said Dr. Angus, "to offer to these poor souls the small shreds of comfort k is in my power to dispense. I had a little trouble with the military. I understand they are letting no one in. But I see they permit you people here." "Some of us talked our way through. Others parked a mile or so away and walked." "The good Lord interceded for me," said Dr. Angus, "and they let me through the barricade." "How did He intercede for you?" "He softened their hearts toward me and they let me come. But now I must speak to these poor folks." IF He motioned at the scattered groups of refugees standing in the yards and along the street.  The dead alien lay on its back, its limp tentacles lying snakelike along the ground. Most of the human bodies at the tunnel mouth had been moved. A few still made shadowed lumps covered by blankets. The gun lay where it had been toppled on its side. "The army is sending out a team," said one of the newsmen, "to haul in the alien. They want to have a good look at him." Spotlights mounted in trees cast a radiance over the area where the tunnel mouth had been. A generator coughed and sputtered in the darkness. Trucks pulled in, loaded up and left. On occasion a bullhorn roared out orders. Dr. Windsor, with an instinct born of long practice, headed unerringly for the largest group of refugees huddled under a swaying street lamp. Most of them were standing on the pavement, but others sat on the curbs and small groups were scattered on the lawns. Dr. Windsor came to a group of women: he always zeroed in on women. He had found them more receptive than men. "I have come," he said, "to offer you the comfort of the Lord. In times like this we should always turn to Him." The women stared at him in some amazement. Some instinctively backed away. "I'm the Reverend Windsor," he told them, "and I came from Washington. I go where I am called to meet a need. Would you pray with me?" A tall, slender, grandmotherly woman stepped to the forefront of the group. "Please go away," she said. Dr. Windsor fluttered his hands, stricken off balance. "I don't understand," he said. "I only meant -- " "We know what you meant," the woman told him, "and we thank you for the thought. We know you intend only kindness." "You can't mean what you are saying," said Dr. Windsor. "You cannot hope to deprive all the others -- " A man thrust throligh the crowd and took the pastor by the arm. "Friend," he said. "Keep it down." "But this woman -- "I know. I heard what you said to her and she to you. She speaks for all of us." "I fail to understand." "There is no need for you to understand. Now will you please go." "You reject me?" "Not you, sir. Not personally. We reject the principle you stand for." "You reject Christianity? "Not Christianity alone. We rejected all dogma a century ago. Our nonbelief is as firm a faith as is your belief. We do not thrust our principles on you. Will you please not thrust yours on us?" "This is incredible," said the Dr. Windsor. "I can't believe my ears. I will not believe it. There must be some mistake. I had only meant to join with you in prayer." "But we no longer pray." Dr. Windsor turned, went blundering past the waiting newsmen, who had trailed after him. He shook his head, bewildered. It was unbelievable. It could not be right. It was inconceivable. It was blasphemous. After all the years of man's agony, after althe searching for the truth, after all the saints and martyrs, it could not come to this. # . General Daniel Foote, commander at Fort Myer, was waiting with three other men in his office. "You should not have come alone," he said to Wilson. "I said so to the President -- offered to send an escort -- but he vetoed the idea. He said he wanted to draw no attention to the car." "There was little traffic on the road," said Wilson. The general shook his head."These are unsettled times," he said. "General Foote, may I present Miss Alice Gale. Her father is the man who contacted us." The general said, "I am delighted to meet you. Miss Gale. These three gentlemen have told me something of your father. And Mr. Black. I'm glad you are along." "Thank you, sir," said Black. "I should like the privilege," Alice said, "of introducing my own people. Dr. Hardwicke -- Dr. Nicholas Hardwicke, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Black. Dr. Hardwicke is a sort of Albert Einstein of our time." The ungainly, bearlike man smiled at her. "You must not praise me unduly, my dear," he said. "They'll' expect far too much af me. Gentlemen, I am very pleased to be here and to meet you. It is time we were getting on in this matter, which must be quite unpleasant to you. I am glad to see you reacting so promptly and so positively. Yout president must be a most unusual man." "We think so," Wilson said. Alice. "Dr. Hardwicke was a fellow townsman of ours, but Dr. Cummings came from the Denver region. My father and the others thought it would be best if he were with Dr. Hardwicke when they met your scientists." Cummings was small, bald, with a wrinkled, elfin face. "I am glad to be here," he said. "We all are glad to be here. We must tell you how deeply we regret what happened at the tunnel." "And, finally," said Alice, IF "Dr. Abner Osborne. He is a longtime family friend." Osborne put an arm about the girPs shoulders and hugged her. "These other gentlemen," he said, are physicists, but I'm a more lowly creature. I am a geologist. Tell me, my dear, how is your father? I looked for him after we came through, but couldn't seem to find him." General Foote drew Wilson aside. "Tell me what you know of the escaped alien." "We've had no further reports. The assumption is it would head for the mountains." Foote nodded. "I think you may be right. We have had some rumors. They all came from the west. Harper's Ferry. Strasburg. Luray. They must be wrong. Nothing could travel that fast. Are you absolutely sure there was only one of them?" "You should know," said Wilson curtly. "Your men were there. Our information is that one was killed. The other got away." "Yes, yes, I know," said Foote. "We are bringing in the dead one. The general was upset, thought Wilson. He was jittery. Was there something he knew that the White House didn't know? "Are you trying to tell me something. General?" "No. Not at all," he said. The son of a bitch, Wilson thought. Foote had simply been trying for an insider oop from the White House to use for small talk at the officers' club. "I think," said Wilson, "that we had best get started back." Once more in the car. Black sat in front with the driver. Wilson and Osborne took the jump seats. "You may think it strange," said Osborne, "that there's a geologist in the group." "I had wondered," Wilson said. "Not that you aren't welcome." "It was thought," said Osborne, "that there might be some questions about the Miocene." "Anent our also fleeing our time, you mea?" "It is one way in which the problem could be solved." "Are you trying to tell me that you were fairly sure some of the aliens would get through? That enough of them might get through for us to be forced to leave?" "Certainly not," said the geologist. "We had hoped none would get through. We had set up precautions. I can't imagine what could have gone wrong. I'm not inclined to think that this single alien -- " "But you don't know." "You're right. They're clever. And capable. Some of our biologists could tell you more." "Then why this feeling we should go back into the Miocene?" "You're nearing a danger point," said Osborne. "Our historians could explain it better than I can, but all the signs are there. Oh, I know that our having dropped in on you will alter your future to a point -- but our effect may have come too late for you to avoid one great danger. "What you're talking about is , the economic and social collapse. Alice briefed us on it -- Washington and the White House are gone in your time. I suppose New York as well, and Chicago and all the rest of the major cities both here and abroad- -- " "You're top-heavy," said Osborne. "You've gotten out of balance. I think it's gone too far to stop. You have a runaway economy and the social cleavages are getting deeper by the day." "And going back to the Miocene would put an end to it?" "It would be a new start:" "I'nt not so sure," said Wilson. Up in the front Black raised his voice. "It's time for the President's speech. Want me to turn on the radio?" He didn't wait for an answer. The next voice was Henderson's. "...little I can tell you. So I am not going to keep you long. We are still in the process of sorting out the facts and I would be doing you a disservice if I told you less -- or more -- than facts. You may be assured that your government will level with you. As soon as we know anything for certain. you are going to know it, too. We'll pass it on to you. "These things we do know. Among us are refugees, apparently from some five hundred years in our future. All details are not yet clear -- we do not, for instance, know their exact method of transportation or arrival -- but the essential facts are as I have stated them to you. The refugees do not intend to stay here. As soon as possible they intend to go on, to leave us as they came. But to do so they need our help. Not only our help in building equipment and installations, but our help in supplying the bare basics that will enable them to start over again. For economic reasons which everyone must understand, we, in conjunction with the rest of the world, cannot refuse to help them. Not that we would refuse in any case. They are our children's children, several times removed. They are our flesh and blood and we cannot withhold assistance. How we will go about helping them is now under consideration. There are problems and they must and will be solved. There must be no delay and our effort must be wholehearted. It will call for sacrifice and devotion from everyone of you. There are many details you should be told, many questions that must occur to you. These all will be fully given and fully answered later -- there is not time to put everything before you this IF evening. After all, this all began happening only a few hours ago. It has been a busy Sunday." The voice was confident, resonant, with" no hint of desperation -- with even a touch of humor in these last words -- and, thought Wilson, there must be in the man a certain sense of desperation. No other President before him had ever been called upon to make such an outlandish announcement. Henderson was still a polished politician. He still could sell himself, still could reassure the nation. Hunched forward on the jump seat, Wilson felt a sudden surge of pride in him. "All of you know by now," the President continued, "that two alien life forms came through what has become known as a time tunnel in Virginia. One was killed, the other escaped. I must be honest with you and say that we have no subsequent word of it. We are pressing all efforts to find and destroy it and while it may take a little time, we will do exactly that. I ask you most urgently not to place too much emphasis upon the fact that an alien is loose upon the Earth. It is only one of the many problems we face tonight -- and not the most important. Given the sort of cooperation that I know we can expect from you we will solve them." He paused and for a moment Wilson wondered if that was all -- although he knew it would not be, for the President bad not said good night. The voice took up again. "I have one unpleasant thing to say and, unpleasant as it may be, I know that on due consideration you'll realize, I think, that it is necessary for the good of all of us. I have, just a few minutes ago, signed an executive ordr declaring a national emergency. Under that order a bank and trading holiday has been declared. This means that no banks or other financial institutions will open their doors for business or transact any business until further notice. Under the order all trading in stocks, shares, bonds and commodities, will be suspended until further notice. All prices, salaries and wages will be frozen. This, of course, is an intolerable situation and cannot exist for long. Because of this, it is only an emergency order that will be lifted as soon as the Congress and other branches of the government can implement rules and regulations imposing such restraints as are necessary under the situation that has been imposed upon us. I hope that you will bear .with us over the few days the executive order will be in force. It was only with the utmost reluctance that I decided it was necessary." Wilson let out his breath slowly, not realizing until then that he had caught and held it. There'd be unsheeted hell to pay, he knew. From the country and the White House press corps. For Christ s sake, Steve, you could have tipped us off. You could have let us know... And they would not believe him when he told them he had not known himself. The declaration of a national eniergency was such a logical step that the media men should have guessed it -- he, himself, should have thought of it. But he hadn't. He wondered if the President had talked it over with anyone and he doubted that he had. There hadn't been much time and there had been other things to talk about. The President was saying good night to his listeners. "Good night, Mr. President," said Wilson and wondered why the others looked at him so strangely. # . The office was dark except for the feeble light from the clacking wire machines ranged along the wall. Wilson crossed to his desk and sat down. He leaned forward to snap on the desk lamp, then pulled back his hand. He had no need of light and there was healing in the dark. He leaned back in his chair -- for the first time since this afternoon nothing was pressing him, but inside him still throbbed the nagging sense that he should be up and doing. The President, Steve thought. should long since have been in bed. It was nearly midnight and well past his usual bedtime and he had missed his nap in the aftrnoon. Samuel Henderson was getting too old for this sort of thing. He had seemed drawn and haggard when the refugee scientists had been escorted to his office to be introduced to the men from the National Academy. "You heard my speech, Steve?" the President had asked when the others were gone. "In the car." "What do you think? Will the country go along?" But when they think about it, I believe they will. Wall Street will raise a lot of dust." "Wall Street," Henderson had said, "is something I can't afford to give my time to right now." "You should be heading for bed, Mr. President. It's been a long, hard day." "Directly. First I have to talk with Treasury, and Sandburg phoned to ask if he could come over." Directly... But it would be hours before Henderson got to sleep. Somewhere in some secret room the scientists were talking. Out there in the vastness of the nation -- of the world, in fact -- people from the future were walking from their tunnels. In the mountains to the west an alien horror skulked in the night. IF The whole scene still was unbening down into wads of folded palievable. Everything had happer on the floor, pened too fast -- no man had been A new story was just starting, given time to catch up with it. In a ing to a new day that in many re(AP) -- A search is being spects would be utterly unlike pressed tonight in the mounany day before in all of human tains west of here for the history -- face problems and dialien who escaped from a lemmas no man or woman had . time tunnel in Virginia a ever faced before. few hours ago. There have Light showed through the crack been numerous reports of under the doors that led into the sightings, but none can be press lounge. Some media men confirmed. There is reason would still be there, although they to believe that most of them were not working. There was no arose from fertile and consound of typewriters. Steve recerned imaginations. A membered that he had never gotnumber of troops and conten to eat his sandwiches. He had tingents from many police put two of them on a plate and had and sheriff's departments taken a bite out of one when Brad are being deployed into the Reynolds had rushed into the area, but there is little hope lounge with his story of the alien's that a great deal can be done escape. Now that he thought of it before daylight... Steve realized that he was hungry. There might be some sandWilson hauled in the copy pawiches left, although they would per, let it fall and curl up before be dry by now -- and for some reahis feet. He read rapidly, son he wanted to stay here in the talking to anyone at all. (AP) -- As dawn came this Although, perhaps, he should see morning ministers, were what was on the wires. He sat for a still in conference at the resmove, then got up and went across ter. Throughout the night the room to the bank of teletypes. there had been a steady comAP first, he thought. Good, old ing and going... stolid AP. Never sensational, out of the machine. It was runpeople and wheat have continued to pour out of the tunnels from the future. Both present problems... (AP) -- Evidence multiplied throughout the night that dawn may bring an explosion of protest and rioting, not only in Harlem, but in many other minority areas of the city. Fears that the heavy influx of refugees from the future may bring about a reduction in food allotments and other welfare benefits are expected to spark widespread demonstration. All police leaves have been canceled and the police force has been notified that its personnel must be prepared to work around the clock... (AP) -- The President's action declaring a business holiday and freezing wages and prices was both attacked and praised... Moscow, Madrid, Singapore, Brisbane, Bogotfi, Cairo, Kiev -- and then: (AP) -- The Rev. Jake Billings, noted evangelist, today called for a crusade to "bring the people of the future back into the arms of Christ." He issued the call from his headquarters here after learning that a group of refugees who had come through the now-closed time tunnel near Falls Church, Va., had refused the ministrations of the Rev. Dr. Angus Windsor, a celebrated churchman of Washington, D.C., giving as their reason that they had turned their backs, not on Christianity alone, but on all religion. "They came to us for "but the help that they are seeking is not the help they should be given. Rather than helping them, as they ask, to go farther back in time, we should help them to return to the brotherhood of Christ. They are fleeing from the future for their lives, but they have already lost a thing far more precious than their lives. How their rejection of Christ may have come about I have no way of knowing. I do know that it is our duty to point out to them the road of devotion and of righteousness. I call upon all Christians to join me in my prayers for them." IF Wilson let the long sheaf of paper fall and went back to his desk. He switched on the light and, picking up the phone, dialed the switchboard. "Jane -- I thought I recognized your voice. This is Steve Wilson. Will you put in a call to Nashville Jane, I know what time it is. I know he probably is asleep) -- we'll simply have to wake him up. No, L don't know his number. Thank yoii, Jane. Thank you very much." He settled back in the chair and growled at himself. When he had talked with the President early in been mentioned. Steve had promised he would call him and then the matter had not crossed his mind again. But who in hell would have thought a thing like this would happen? Windsor, he thought. It would take an old busybody, a meddling fool like Windsor to go messing into it. And then, when he got his face pushed in, to go bawling to the newsmen, telling what had happened. Christ, that's all we need, Steve thought, to get the Windsors and mixed up in this, wringing their hands and crying for a crusade... A crusade, he grimly told himself, was the last thing that was needed. There was trouble enough without a gang of pulpit-thumpers adding to the dustup. The phone tinkled at him and he picked up the receiver. Jane said, line, sir." "Hello," said Wilson. "Is this "Yes, God bless you," said the deep, solemn voice. "What can I do for you?" "Jake, this is Steve Wilson." "Wilson? Oh, yes, the press secretary. I should have known it was you. They didn't say who was calling. They just said the White House." The bastard, Wilspn told himself. He's disappointed. He thought it was the President. "It's been a long time, Jake," he said. ago? Ten years?" "More like fifteen,'said Wilson. "I guess you're right at that," the habit -- " "I'm calling you," said Wilson, "about this crusade you're drumming up." "Crusade? Oh, you mean the one to get the future people back onto the track. I am so glad you called. We need all the help we can get. I view it as fortunate that they came back to us, for whatever reason. WhenI think of the human race, a mere five hundred years from now, forsaking the human faith that has sustained us all these years I get a cold shiver up my spine. Vm so glad that you are with us. I can't tell you how glad I am that you -- "  "I'm not with you, Jake." "You're not with us? What do you mean, you're not with us?"' "I'm not with you, Jake -- that is what I mean. I'm calling to ask that you call off this silly crusade." "I can't." "Yes, you can. We have trouble enough without some damn fool crusade. You'll be doing the country a disservice if you keep it up. We have problems up to here and we don't need any more. This isn't just a situation that off his piety. This is life and death, not only for the refugees, but for every one of us." "It seems to me, Steve, you're using an approach that is unnecessarily rough." "If I am," said Wilson, "it's because I'm upset at what you're doing. This i important, Jake. We have a job -- to get the refugees to where they want to go before they upset our economy. And while we do that we'll be getting plenty of flack. We're going to get it from industry, from labor, from people on welfare, from politicians who will grab the chance to take cheap shots at us. With all of this we can't face flack from you. What difference can it possibly make to you? You're not dealing with a present situation, a present people. You iire dealing with the future, with a segment of time that ordinarily would be out of your reach. The refugees are back here, sure, but the windmill you are tilting at wasn't even built until long after you and I were dead." many mysterious ways." Wilson said, "Climb down from your pulpit. You're not going to impress me, Jake. You never did." "Steve, are you calling for the President?" "If you mean did he ask me to make this call, the answer is no. He probably doesn't know as yet what you have done. But when he finds out about it he is going to be sore. The two of us talked about you earlier in the day. We were afraid you-might take some sort of hand. We couldn't, of course, foresee what happened. But you do take a hand in everything that happens. I was supposed to phone you, to head you off beforehand. But so many things were coming up I never found the time." "I can see your position," said even understand it. But you and I see things from different viewpoints. To me the thought that the human race became a godless people is a personal agony. It goes against everything I have been taught, everything I've lived by, all that I've believed in." "You can rest easy," Wilson IF said. "It will go no further. The human future is ending five hundred years from now," "But they'll be going back in time." "We hope they will," Wilson said bitterly. "They'll go back if we aren't completely hogtied by people like you." "If they goback," protested We'll give them what they need to make a new start. Into a new land and a new time where they'll build a godless culture. They may in time go out in space, out to other stars, and they'll go as godless people. We can't allow that, Steve." "Maybe you can't. I can. It doesn't bother me. There are a hell of a lot of other people it won't bother either. You're blind if you can't see the beginning, the roots of their rejection of religion in the present. Maybe that is what is really bugging you." mitted. "I haven't had time to think it through. Even if what you say were true it would make no difference. I still would have to do exactly what I'm doing." "You mean you intend to go ahead? Even knowing what it means to all of us? Stirring up people, riding that white horse -- " "I have to do it, Steve. My conscience -- " "You'll think it over? I can call again?" For there was no use arguing further. No point in trying to talk reason to this pious madman. their undergraduate years. And he should have known from the very first that it would be useless to try to make Jake see another's point of view. "if you wish. But I won't reconsider. I know what I must do. You cannot persuade me otherwise." "Good night, Jake. Sorry that I woke you up." "You didn't wake me up. I expect no sleep this night. It was good to hear your voice, Steve." Wilson hung up and sat quietly in his chair. Maybe, he thought, if he had spoken differently -- if he had not come on so strong -- he might have accomplished something. Although he doubted it. There was no such thing as talker had been. Perhaps if he had phoned this afternoon, after he first had talked with the President, he might have been able at action, but he doubted that as well. It had been, he told himself, a hopeless business from the less. He looked at his watch. It was almost two o'clock. Picking up the phone, he dialed Judy's number. Her sleepy voice answered. "Did I, wake you up?" "No, Tve been waiting for you. Steve, you're awful late. What happened?" "I had to go to Fort Myer to pick up some refugees. Scientists. They're here, talking to the academy people. I won't make it, Judy." "You're not coming out?" "I should stay in touch. Too much is happening." "You'll be dead on your feet, come morning." "I'll stretch out on a couch in the lounge and get some rest." "I could come down. Stand watch." "No need. Someone will get hold of me if I'm needed. You go to bed. Be a little late in the morning if you want. I can get along." "Steve?" "Yes?" "It's not going good, is it?" "It's too soon to tell." "I saw the President on TV. It'll be an awful mess. We've never faced anything like this before." "No, not quite like this before." "I'm scared, Steve." "So am I," said Wilson. "It'll be different in the morning. We'll feel different in the morning." "I have a terrible sensation," Judy said, "that the solid ground is slipping out from under my feet. I've been thinking about my mother and sister out in Ohio. I haven't seen Mom in a long time." "Phone her. Talk, with her. You'll feel better." "I tried to. I tried and tried. But the circuits are jammed. Everyone is calling everyone. Like a holiday. The country is upset." "I just made a long-distance call." "Sure you did. You're the White House. They clear the lines for you." "You can call her tomorrow. Things will quiet down tomorrow." "Steve, you're sure you can't come out. I need you." "Sorry, Judy. Truly sorry. I have this horrible feeling that I should stay in reach. I don't know why, but I do." "I'll see you in the morning then." "Try to get some sleep." "You, too. Try to shut this out, try to get some sleep. You'll need it. Tomorrow will be bad." They said good night and he put the receiver back into its cradle. He wondered why he was staying here. There was at the moment no real need for him to stay. Although one could never know. Hell could break loose at any time. He should try to get some sleep, he told himself, but somehow he resisted sleep. He didn't. need it -- he was too strung out, too tense to sleep. Later he'd need sleep, when there was no chance of sleep. A few hours from now #II this would catch up with him. But right now IF his nerves were too tight, his brain too busy to allow for sleep. He went out and around the walk to the front lawn. The night was soft, resting for the heat and turmoil of the coming day. The city was quiet. Somewhere a motor growled, but there were no cars on the avenue. The pillars of the portico gleamed softly in the night. The sky was clear and a million stars hung there. A red light went blinking across the sky and from far overhead came the thrum of motors. A dark figure stirred at the edge of a group of trees. "You all right, sir?"' a voice asked. "Yes," said Wilson. "Just out for a breath of air." He saw now that the dark figure was a soldier, his rifle held aslant his chest. "Don't go wandering," said the soldier. "There are a lot af us out here. Some of the boys might be a little nervous." "I won't," said Wilson. "I'll go back indirectly." He stood listening to the quietness of the city, feeling the softness of the night. Something was different about it. Despite the quiet and the softness a certain tenseness seemed to reach out to touch him. # . A sound brought Elmer Ellis out of a sound sleep. He sat up in bed, befuddled, unable for a moment to orient himself. On the night table beside the bed the clock was ticking loudly ancT beside him his wife, Mary, was levering herself up on her elbows. Her sleepy voice asked, "What is it, Elmer?" "Something's at the chickens," he said, for now the reason for his waking came churning into his consciousness. The sound came again, the frightened flapping, squawking of the chickens. He threw back the covers and his feet hit the cold floor so hard they hurt. He groped for his trousers, got his legs into them, slid his feet into his shoes, did not stop to tie the laces. The squawking still went on. "Where is Tige?" asked Mary. "Damn dog," he growled. "Probably off chasing possum." He charged out of the bedroom and into the kitchen. Groping, he found the shotgun, lifted it from its pegs. From the game bag that hung beneath the pegs he took a handful of shells, jammed them into a pocket, found two more and thrust them into the chambers of the double-barrel. Bare feet pattered toward him. "Here's the flashlight, Elmer. You can't see a thing without it." She thrust it at him and he took it. The night was pitch black outside and he switched on the light to see his way down the porch steps. The squawking in the henhouse continued and there was no sign df Tige. This was strange. In a flare of anger he had said the dog was probably out hunting possum and that couldn't be true. Tige never went out hunting on his own. He was too old and stiff in the joints and he loved his bed under the porch. "Tige," he said, not too loudly. The dog whined from under the porch. "What the hell is wrong with you?" asked Elmer. "What is out there, boy?" Suddenly he was afraid -- more afraid than he had ever been before. Even more afraid than that time he had run into the Vietcong ambush. This was a different kind of fear -- like a cold hand reaching out and gripping him and holding him and he knowing he'd never get away. The dog whined again. "Come on, boy," said Elmer. "Come on out and get them." Tige did not come out. "All right, then," said Elmer. "Stay there." He went across the farmyard, shining his light ahead of him, picking out the henhouse door. The frightened squawking was louder than ever now, insane and frantic. Long ago, he told himself, he should have repaired the henhouse, plugged up the holes. The shape it was in, a fox would have no trouble gaining entry. Although it was strange, if what bothering the chickens were a fox, that the animal should still be there. At the first flsh of light, the first sound of a human voice, a fox would have been gone. What was in there? A weasel, maybe, or a mink? Even a raccoon? Outside the door he paused, reluctant to go on. But he couldn't turn back now. He'd never be able to live with himself if he did. Why, he wondered, should he be so frightened? It . was Tige, he thought. Tige was so scared that he refused to come from beneath the porch and some of that fright had rubbed off on him. "Damn that dog," he said. He reached out and lifted the lalch slammed the door back against the side of the building. He balancedthe gun in his right hand and directed the flash with his left. The first thing he saw in the circle of light were feathers -- feathers floating in the air. Then the running, squawking, flapping chickens and in among the chickens... Elmer Ellis dropped the flash and screamed and in mid-scream jerked the gun to his shoulder and fired blindly into the henhouse, first the right barrel, then the left, the shots so close together that they sounded as one explosion. Then they were coming at him, leaping from the open door, hundreds of them, it seemed, faintly IF seen in the light of the flash that lay on the ground -- horrible little monsters such as one would never see except in some sweating dream. He reversed the gun, scarcely realizing that he did so, grasping the barrels in both his hands, using it as a club, flailing with U blindly as they came swarming out at him. Jaws fastened on an ankle and a heavy body struck him in the chest. Claws raked his left leg from hip to knee and he knew that he was going down and that once he was down they would finish him. He sagged to his knees and now one of them had him by the arm and he tried to fight it off, while another clawed his back to ribbons. He tipped over on one side and ducked down his head, covering it with his one free arm, drawing up his knees to protect his belly. And that was all. They no longer chewed or ripped him. He jerked up his head and saw them, fiitting shadows, moving out into the dark. The beam of the fallen flashlight caught one of them momentarily and for the first time he really saw the sort of creatures that had been in the henhouse and at the sight of it he bawled in utter terror. Then it was gone -- all of them were gone -- and he was alone in the yard. He-tried to get up. Halfway there, his tegs folded under him and he fell heavily. He crawled toward the house, clawing "at the ground to puli himself along. He felt a wetness on one arm and one leg and a stinging pain was beginning in his back. The kitchen window glowed with a lighted lamp. Tige came out from beneath the porch and crawled toward him, belly flat against the ground, whining. Mary, in her nightgown, was running down the stairs. "Get the sheriff!" he yelled at her, gasping with the effort. "Phone the sheriff -- " She raced across the yard and kneeled beside him, trying to get her hands under his body to lift him. He pushed her away. "Get the sheriff. The sheriff has to know right away." "You're hurt. You're bleeding." "I'm all right," he told her fiercely. "They're gotit. But the others must be warned. You didn't see them. You don't know." "I have to get you in and call the doctor." "The sheriff first," he said. "Then the doctor." She rose and raced back to the house. He tried to crawl, covered only a few feet and then lay still. Tige came crawling out to meet him, edged in close to him and began to lick his face. Faith can move mountains. Susie s removed -- Susie f I Steve Spencer tried to hide all of his six-two frame behind the lichen-covered rock and comprehend the magnitude of the slide which had somehow failed to kill him. A huge slab of granite had cleaved his protective boulder in half seconds earlier and he was not yet convinced that a hard shove wouldn't turn that life-saving stone into a joint executioner and gravemarker. His body ached from fatigue. He hadn't moved a muscle in an hour and a half and his hair was tickling his nose. It was at times like this that he promised to have his shoulder-length blond hair chopped to a crewcut. These old mountains will never be the same, he thought. But unless my aim improves, neither will the rest of the world... He stared dumbly at the carbine by his side and tried to justify murdering poor, scared Susie. It would make a pretty lousy ending for his doctoral thesis. committee approved his proposal Steve was jubilant. His lean frame arranged itself randomly over the old stuffed chair that adorned his living room. Chuck Dorin, his roommate and coworker, tried to ignore him. Chuck's upcoming psychology test would definitely keep Chuck from being in a good mood for the next twenty-four hours. "You know," commented Steve, "this just might set a departmental record for the laziest doctpfal project ever to pass the research committee. All I have to do is take toys away from them when they're not looking. It's just that simple, stealing from babies." Chuck's broad . shoulders, topped by a tangle of curly black hair that looked as if it might or might not be hiding a head, gave no sign that he might be listening. "You know?" taunted Steve. Chuck turned his large frame and caromed a box of tissues off Steve's left shoulder. "Get off it," he grumbled. "You're about as cynical as a pair, of newlyweds. I've never seen you so excited about anything -- " When he thought about it Steve doubted that newlyweds got nearly this excited. The whole project had come up more or less by accident and, in the end, Steve had to give Sue Malor credit for giving him the idea in the first place. They had gone out for pizza after an unusually bad movie and Steve had tried to.explain to her the developIF ment of the "object concept" in infants. "It was way back in the nineteen-twenties that Piaget first introduced the 'object concept' into his studies of the development of intelligence in infants," he began. Sue's lithe figure sat back in the chair, a straw tenuously running from her lips to a coke. "According to Piagetian theory a newborn infant has no idea that the objects he sees are real. Toiim they are merely parts of a picture, with no reality of their own. But as the infant gets older he starts to experience the objects in other ways. He learns that what can be seen can also be felt and sometimes heard or smelled. In time, he realizes that these properties go together. But the object still is real only in his perceptiort. If the object is covered -- or hidden -- the infant shows no sign that he is aware that it still exists." Steve was building steam, his tong, bony arms gesturing as he spoke. "By six months he starts to understand that the objects have independent existences. If you put a watch -- or toy -- under a pillow and then show him where it is he will learn to look for it there. Even so, if you then put it under -- say -- his blanket, he's still likely to look for it under the pillow. It isn't until the infant is eighteen months old that he finally realizes that objects have truly independent existences -- that they are not present merely by virtue of his perception of them. So the child only slowly evolves the concept of the inherent reality of objects -- and only through constantly recurring reinforcements in his everyday life." By now Steve's comments were only vaguely aimed at Sue. She pushed a strand of long black hair from her eye and absently tucked it behind her ear. "No one has convinced me that some things really exist." She was still foul-tempered from a chemistry class where she had just been told that sometimes electrons were waves and sometimes they were particles. "All you scientists ever do is make up stupid theories and then cram everything into them. Time is relative, momentum is quantized, matter is waves and light is particles. Good thing those infants decide that objects are real. They would look pretty dumb trying to fit them into any other theory." She blew through the straw into Steve's face. "Not that an illustrious graduate student couldn't get the data to fit, but I just thought it might be kind of tricky for a twoyear-old." She attempted a horrible face and then settled for sticking out her tongue at him. Steve's face was blank. His eyes were focused on infinity. "Are you all right, Steve?" she asked. "Do you feel sick?" He had consumed quite a large pizza. "No, no," cried Steve. "What you just said -- what did you mean?" Sue could feel the eyes of everyone in the restaurant turn toward her idiotic Steve. She had no idea what he was talking about, but the symptoms were clear. "It's a great idea!" he continued. Another brainstorm had struck him in the head, she decided, and in the next instant he would be lecturing her wildly, scribbling on napkins and demanding instant comprehension from her. In a couple of days, after he had calmed down, he would explain it again more simply and she would finally find out what it was all about. But she hated these restaurant scenes. "No sarcasm, please," he said. "You've brought up a fantastic question. What if the child developed a different object concept? What if he decided that when an object disappeared from sight it no longer existed? Don't you see? We can test it in the lab. With monkeys. Use trap doors, stuff like that. We can convince an infant monkey hat objects have no independent reality. It's a beautiful project. Caa they learn thaft an object isn't real? And what will happen if we change things and let them find out that the objects are real? It's beautiful! Absolutely beautiful!" His voice trailed off as he began scribbling notes on one napkin after another. Sue was surprised. Fon once she had understood what he was talking about the first time through. L ater that night Steve went through it again, explaining this time to Chuck. "The basic question, then, is: If the experiences of the infant indicate that objects exist only as extensions of its own perceptions, what sorts of conclusions will it draw? Is the development of the concept that objects are real -- with independent existences -- automatic? Or is it something infants learn through experience?" Chuck asked, "Why limit yourself to whether objects can exist independently? Why not explore all types of 'realities' the infant can be convinced of? What if some objects could never be touched? You could use holograms. And monkeys for infants. That way you could take something like, say, fruit -- which we know monkeys like -- and present it only as an image. Rig up some gadget to spray the smell in with the image. What would the monkeys do with that?" Steve was catching on. "Fantastic. We could let them play with a pocket watch and after a while just introduce the sound, and see how the monkeys respond to that -- " The sky was turning a pale blue when they finally gave up and went to bed. They had worked out an even dozen key experiments IF Micronite filter. Mild, smooth taste. For all the right reasons. Kent. America s quality cigarette King Size or Deluxe #'s. Kings: # mg. "tar, #.I mg. nicotine; lOO's: # mg. "tar," # mg. nicotine av. per cigarette, Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined That Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health. Please send me the following Kent Collectables n A. # qt. corn popper #  . Set of #-# oz. insulat  B.# cup insulated party perk #  F. Set of # insulated turn n C-#qt. insulated ice bucket # CH G. Set of #-# oz. insulate  D , # oz. beverage server # I am enclosing # Kent end flaps  for each item ordered, plus check or money order. Offer continues as long as supply lasts. Allow # to # weeks delivery. I certify I am #I years of age or over. Name .Address...State Mail to: Custom Service Co., P.O. Box #, Maple Plain, Minnesota # Collect the Kent "Collectables!' Take advantage of this special Kent offer. Order these attractive items for yourfamily and friends. b and both men were exhausted. Steve rose in time to keep a lunch date with Sue. "Fm going to write up what we were talking about yesterday' he said before they had even found a table. "Chuck and I tossed it around all night and Fm sure I can get it approved as my Ph. D. project. That'll mean I'll get all the materials and money that I need, plus the time to work on it." Sue was delighted. Something in the back of her head told her that she would be rooting for the monkeys and not for Stevebut it did seem that for once she might be able to keep track of what he was doing. "You know," she suggested, "it'll be sort of tricky if the monkeys accept whatever reality they are shown." "How so?" asked Steve. She realized that was the result he really wanted and saw no problems in accepting it. "Well, then you'll say that the monkeys were taught that something was real that wasn't -- and they accepted it, right?" "Yeh." Steve seemed to know that he was being set up, but to have no idea just where she was heading. "Then how will you know that you don't have your realities backward?" She waited, but he simply stared as if he had already considered the question and its implications long before she asked it. She decided she would have to wait and see. B y the end of the week a heavily documented research proposal was in the hands of the chairman of the doctoral project committee. Ten days later Steve defended the proposal before the committee and it was approved. It took him and Chuck another week to build the first experimental cage and they unveiled it for Sue with paternal pride. "Every part of the floor is a trapdoor," explained Steve. "We can remove any object from any section of the cage instantly." The contraption stood in one corner of the laboratory, across from the door. It was large -- six fcet square and four feet high. The floor was a grid of six-inch square tiles. A vast number of wires ran to a series of controls in front of the cage. "Or put things in," added Chuck. "One of the stages of infant learning is the discovery that when an object disappears from sight one may expect it to show up again -- perhaps randomly .or in a specific place, but not necessarily where it went out of sight. So we've rigged up some loading platforms that will shoot objects up into the cage so that they just seem to materialize." "Remember, Sue?" Steve asked. "We were talking that night about a watch placed under the pillow and then moved in earlier experiments with infants? Well we're going to do something just like that. Whenever our pocket watch 'disappears' through a trapdoor, we'll simultaneously sneak another one exactly like it into a predetermined location." "Behind the surrogate mother," Chuck explained. "The what?" asked Sue. "She's not going to like this," Steve cautioned Chuck. He would have preferred not to have the point come up. "Isn't someone going to explain this little tidbit to me?" "Okay, it's simple." Steve's tone was defensive. "We can only have one monkey in a cage -- otherwise we can't control the experiment. But each cage will contain a surrogate mother -- a phony made of wire and cloth, with nipples attached to bottles for feeding the experiment's subject." "The poor things will go crazy without real mothers to give them affection." "They won't," countered Chuck. "In previous experiments caged monkeys definitely have not gone crazy. But ours won't even lack affection. Steve and I will be handling them and giving them love as part of the deal. They've gojt to be able to trust us completely for us to get the right readings." "If it'll make you feel belter," Steve suggested to Sue, "you can pitch in -- feed them by bottle whenever you want. It'll be all to the good." "What are all these ther gadgets for?" she asked. She definitely did not like the use of the surrogate mothers and now she was becoming suspicious and worried. "These were the most fun," Chuck told her, pointing. "They're tiny nozzles -- these tubes are attached to' aerosol dispensers, so that we can add various smells to the cage without showing the objects the scents belong to."  Steve pointed oit a number of buttons located at various points around the cage, each with a single wire running from it. "And these are minispeakers, so that we can do the same thing with sounds -- like suggest a rattle or a tom-tom. They're grounded to the cage, so we need only a single thin wire running to each speaker." Sue looked at a huge piece of equipment sitting on a cart next to the cage. "And this, I suppose, is to dissect their brains with when you're done with them?" Chuck laughed. "It's a laser. We're using it to produce holograms, three-dimensional images of an object that isn't really there. We can project the image of, say, an orange into the cage. We can use aerosol spray to add the smell to go with the image. IF Every once in a while the monkey will be able to see and smell an orange, but he'll never be able to grab it," Sue was impressed. She couldn't imagine how the monkeys might react. Steve told her not to try. "We're not supposed to assume or try to predict -- the purpose of the experiment is to find out what will happen under the test conditions. All we can do now is wait. The shop says it can have the other five cages for us in two weeks. Then we'll be ready to start." Aate having one named after me," Sue whispered. She watched the infant monkey named Susie as it fed itself from the surrogate mother. "I don't care what you say, it just isn't natural for that poor thing to have to nurse from a mother made of cloth andwire." Steve was edgy. He didn't care for the isolation of the monkeys any more than Sue did, but it had to be done. The big question was how the monkeys were going to respond to their "realities." Sue seemed to read his mind. "And what you're going to convince #hose poor creatures is real is going to drive them insane. I'm certain it will." "Why?" argued Steve. "Do dogs go crazy when they're confronted with radios and television sets? And what about elevators? They go into this little room. Thirty seconds later they leave by the same door and they're in an entirely different place. They don't even seem to notice it." ' "But that's different," Sue insisted. "Dogs basically know that objects exist. Radio and television are just things that won't work for them. They probably throw them out the way you throw out what you can't use." "You don't know that's how they react," protested Steve. "But neither do you," she persisted. "But with these monkeys you're going to switch things around, so that what used to be real will start disappearing and what used to be untouchable will become solid. What's that going to do to the poor things?" "Just one poor thing," said Steve. "Just Susie." "Thanks," Sue growled. The addition of this new series of experiments was the last change that had been made in the plans for the project -- and Steve and Chuck agreed it was the most important. One of the monkeys would find, after twelve months, that objects changed from one "reality class" to another. "Reality classes" referred to the apparent characteristics of a set of items -- the classifications had been worked out while they had waited for the cages to be finishcd. The whole program had finally shaped up into a comprehensive whole. In all, six monkeys would be used -- three experimental and three control. The control monkeys would merely live in the special cages, dubbed "reality cages'" by Sue. No objects would disappear or reappear, no smells, sounds or images would be presented out of normal context. These three would be raised in the generally accepted "real"' world. Only the three experimental monkeys would be subjected to altered realities -- one for six months, one for twelve months and one for eighteen. After their time was up they would be transferred into other cages, where they would experience standard realities. Steve and Chuck planned to watch carefully the reactions and adaptations of the monkeys to this change. "Only Susie will have objects changing from one class to another," explained Steve. "For the first six months each of the three experimental animals will be given twelve objects to play with and each will have a different reality or, as we put it, each will belong to a different 'reality class.' Thus, one class will be represented by the orange. It will always be seen and smelled, but the monkeys will never be able to touch it. Another, represented by the watch, will always disappear when out of the monkey's vision, but will reappear immediately in a certain place, behind the surrogate mother. Another class, including a jrattle, will disappear, but reappear at a random time and ajndom place. Bananas will sometimes be real and sometimes only images with smells. And so on. Only the twelve objects will be used. For Fred, who'll spend six months in the reality cages, this will be all that he goes through." "Go on," said Sue. Steve had never explained the final layout before and Sue was convinced the reason was that he didn't think she would like it. "Paul goes for twelve months and Susie for eighteen. What happens to them?" "Calm down," Steve said. "I can't explain it to you if you're already convinced that it's going to ' be something awful. Believe me, it won't be." Sue relented. Her scowl disappeared. "Okay," Steve said. "After the first six months Paul and Susie will be given new objects. Each will be manipulated to fit into one of the twelve reality classes identified by the original twelve objects. Once introduced, each new object will always appear in the same reality class and no contradictons will be made. The question is will the animals learn to categorize objects according to their class? We're hoping that maybe the monkeys will be able IF to classify the objects after a very short encounter with them. This would tend to show that they actually a(re aware of the different realities and have accepted them." "And Susie?" asked Sue. "What special treats does she get for her last six months?" "Precisely what you suggested," interjected Chuck. He had come in minutes earlier and had been listening quietly. "We're going to take objects that Susie is familiar with, that have always acted in the same way, and switch them into another reality class. The doll, which had always behaved as a real doll will become just an image. The orange, which she had never been able to grasp, will become a real object. And when the watch is hidden from her it won't reappear behind the surrogate mother. It'll just stay right where it was put -- and I really don't know what you're so upset about." He was mad now -- and worried that she might convince Steve to modify the experiments in some way. "It's just so unnatural," she complained. "So is wearing clothes -- and so is driving a car," he snapped and stomped out of the room. "It's not just that, Steve." She was still unsettled by the whole affair. "The more I think about it, the less I like what Susie is going to have to go through." "Well, you won't be the first person ever to empathize with an ape." "I don't feel just empathy," Sue told him. "What Chuck said is true. Man lives in a completely unnatural world. Look, ever since man became a technological creature scientists have been arguing with the rest of us that what we think is true isn't. So when Armstrong landed on the moon reporters found that something like a quarter of the people they interviewed didn't believe that he was really on the moon. They thought it was all a colossal puton. Steve started rolling long strands of hair around a pencil. Since he had let his hair grow he had picked up several of Sue's nervous habits. "So what are you getting at? You think they're as dumb as Susie? Or dumber?" "No, but they're just as lucky." She groped for words. "Don't you see? Science has destroyed modern man's confidence in reality. He doesn't know whether to believe his senses or not and no attempt is made to clarify the contradiction. That's why I get so mad when some bigdome gets up in front of the class and tells me that matter is just waves and not really solid at all. If you were shown an object disappearing and reappearing across the room you would say 'Wow, teleportation!" There is no alteration of reality that you wouldn't accept. Sure, in some ways that's a good thing. But this is what I meant when I said I wasn't so sure that objects did exist. Those people who insisted that Armstrong was on a movie set would never have any trouble with disappearing objects. To them it would be a gimmick. For you and me -- anything we believe we make our senses accept. Some day we're going to have to confront all of this -- and I don't see anyone trying to get ready -- " "Fm sorry," said Steve. "I really don't understand what you're getting at." "You probably never will," she answered. n Steve slowly raised a hand to wipe his forehead. Damn her, he thought. Shes right down there, somewhere. He had been stupid to fire at that great a distance and it had never dawned on him that a police carbine would fire any differently from the old twenty-two he had grown up with. All he had managed to do was scare Susie enough to convince her to retaliate and she showed no inclination to reveal her position now. He had radioed for more men and had been promised a squad of army sharpshooters, but the men refused to approach within line of sight and the squad had been dropped off two miles own the valley. If they didn't spot her by sunset they wouldn't have a chance, and Coleman had radioed in that the Pentagon had decided to level the whole area if they didn't get her. Susie had sealed her own fate. There was no way out. And he had taught her -- was that fair? Yes, ho the ultimate buffoon, had taught her to do it. He was tired and worn out. Nothing made sense. Leveling ten square miles of Rockies to kill a single monkey made more sense than most of the day's events. A lazy doctoral thesis, he had called it. How was he going to write this one up? labeled the occasion a celebration, but a break in the tedium might have been more accurate. The experiment was six months old today and he, Sue and Chuck had ordered pizza and champagne to celebrate the end of Phase One. Tomorrow two of the monkeys would come out of their reality cages and Paul and Susie would be introduced to their first new objects. Despite all this, a half-year of boring repetition IF had drained Steve of his enthusiasm. "Those damn monkeys accept anything," he complained. "There is absolutely no difference between the experimental animals and the controls. Except in what they take for reality. Whenever the watch disappears they look behind Mama for it. When the rattle disappears they don't expect it back. When the banana turns out to be only an image they ignore it. They're completely predictable -- so where's the fun? I'd like to hit one of those beasts on the head with an orange!" It had been five months since any of the experimental animals had shown any interest at all in the sight and smell of an orange. "For Pete's sake, Steve, how can you complain?" argued Sue. "The experiment so far is a success. Your results have been perfectly clear -- and better than you had any right to expect." "Not to mention," Chuck added, "three publications in six months. I know a lot of people who would give their right arms to be bored like that." "I'm not complaining about the results," Steve said. "You're both absolutely right -- there's no doubt that the monkeys accept whatever reality they're given. They've learned and accepted all twelve reality classes without a flinch. What has me climbing walls is that, beyond the obvious, there hasn't been a single event worth getting excited about." "Well, that's what this celebration is all about," Sue added cheerily. "Tomorrow you're sure to get some interesting results. Fred comes out of the reality cage and you can hit him with that orange. And I bet Paul and Susie will be happy to see their first new toys in six months." Steve relaxed. "Okay. I admit I am expecting a little change tomorrow. But somehow I'm convinced that they'll make it as dull as possible." He drank a glass of champagne without pausing. "And you -- " He pointed a finger accusingly at Sue. "You have every. right to be cheerful. As long as those little brats o on without any shocks or confusion your little conscience feels just fine. I'm almost convinced that anything that would cheer me up would turn you sour." Sue looked suddenly thought ful. But, "Wait till tomorrow -- " was all she said. "At this point," he muttered, "I'll take whatever I can get." T he next morning all three were at the lab by eight-thirty. A certain air of confidence was also present. Steve gave each of the monkeys a nut, as he did every morning, then turned to his fellow humans. "Where would you suggest we start?" "Let's transfer Fred out of the reality cage and give him an orange," urged Sue. Steve opened Fred's cage and called to Fred. The monk scampered to him and leaped into  Steve's arms. "Okay, boy, you're in for a little fun." Steve transferred him to another cage across the room. Sue had already placed an orange near the door of the cage. Fred looked at the orange and wandered away. "He's sure it isn't real," whispered Chuck. "It might take a while." "We'll wait," Steve decided. "He's got nothing else in the cage to play with, so it shouldn't take too long." Within five minutes Fred had returned to the orange. He sat and looked at it, then tried to pass his hand through the image. The orange was sent rolling across the cage. Fred froze, his eyes fixed on the orange. He looked at his hand and back at the orange. He circled in the cage nervously for a few minutes, then returned to the fruit. He batted it lightly. It rolled. He hit it again, harder, and finally sent it flying across the cage. He jumped about, screaming in excitement. Finally he pounced on the fruit, held it firmly in his hands. He turned it over and over, put it down, picked it up and went through the whole procedure again. He was convinced. The orange was real. In minutes he had devoured it. Steve was delighted. From her purse Sue produced a bottle of wine. "I think we need another celebration," she proclaimed. "A toast to crazy monkeys." All three gathered around the bottle. After a semblance of order had returned to the scene Chuck said, "I want to give Paul or Susie a new toy." "Something that will disappear and then reappear behind Mama," suggested Sue. For the past six months, the watch had always reappeared behind Mama after disappearing. "Let's give Paul a bell," Steve said. He pulled one down from a shelf and walked over to Paul's cage. "Paul, I've got a toy for you." Steve rang the bell, then opened the door and set it down in the cage. Paul took it tentatively, but dropped it when it rang. He picked it up again and it rang again. He dropped it. After going through the same routine a half dozen times he was running around the cage ringing the bell loudly. "Let's hide it now," said Chuck. He retrieved the bell from Paul. "Here it goes, Paul," Chuck announced and hid it under a large inverted bowl. The bowl was routinely used to make objects "disappear." Steve drppped the bell through the trapdoor beneath the bowl and raised another one into IF the cage behind Mama. Paul contemplated the bowl. Chuck righted the bowl, showing the empty space. Paul sat a minute, then went slowly over to Mama. Seeing the bell, he let out a shout, picked it up and ran about the cage, ringing it merrily. "He looked behind Mama first." Sue was delighted. "He looked behind Mama!" Quickly they put the bell under the bowl again. This time Paul didn't even pause, but headed straight for Mama. "He was damn sure of himself that time," Sue said. "There was no question. He knew the reality class and put the bell right into it." "Another resounding success," announced Chuck. Steve grinned. "Another paper." Everything was going better than they had expected. They tried another orange with Fred. He attacked and devoured it immediately. They gave a bell to Susie arid her reactions were identical to Paul's. "Let's try Susie's trick with it," suggested Chuck. Susie's trick had been worked out jointly by Steve and Susie. For the effective operation of the trapdoors the monkeys had to be looking elsewhere or the object had to be covered To prevent the animal's seeing the mechanism in operation. Susie, unlike both Fred and Paul, had figured this out. After a while she had started to cover her eyes in order to make things disappear. Steve had quickly sensed that this was Susie's intent and had whisked away the watch when she covered her eyes. When she uncovered them and didn't sec the watch she headed straight for Mama. Over the next two of three days she and Steve had perfected the trick. Now the bell was put over an exposed trapdoor, in plain sight of Susie. But instead of covering her eyes she grabbed it and started to play with it. Steve retrieved it and tried again. On the fourth try Susie cooperated. She sat about two feet from the bell and covered her eyes. Steve dropped it through a trapdoor and transferred it behind Mama. Susie uncovered her eyes, gtamed toward where it had been and hcadecl for Mama. "Enough," Chuck said. "I can't take any more of this." She and Steve agreed and the three left for the day. All three were hung over the next mornings monotonous routine. In a month's time Fred was indistinguishable from his control. Anything he saw he assumed was real. There was nothing left to do with him. Paul and Susie delighted in the occasional new toys they received, but they would classify each object as soon as enough time and events had passed to define which reality class it was in. The tedium returned and the next five months crept past unbearably slowly. Only the question of how Susie would react to an, object's changing from one realky to another kept Steve's interest alive. Still, the celebratipn after one year was considerably gayer than the six-month festivities. Ill The sun was slowly creeping toward the mountain peaks and now the lichencovered boulder cast a dark shadow over Steve. For the first time in two hours he dared to shift his position. Coleman reported that the sharpshooters had taken cover in the brush that surrounded Ihe bottom edge of the scree field, but could catch no sight of Susie. If no one could hit Ssie by sunset a helicopter would ferry out all personnel and the bombers would move in. The valley had already been evacuated and Steve had heard a low-flying plane broadcasting warnings to any campers or hikers who might still be in the area. Susie was unable to move without giving away her position, but she could easily sit and wait until dark. Steve broke into a cold sweat as his mind touched on the idea of Susie's bringing about a premature sunset. That way lay madness, he thought, and drove the concept from his mind. If he had any guts he'd take his chances with Susie in the hopes that if Susie got him one of the sharpshooters would get her. God only knew what she could do if she set her mind to it. But he just sat and prayed for the tiny movement that would give away her position. Susie, you have to die anyhow. Let me do it -- I started it... If only he had stopped his experiments at twelve months. A Phase Three," Steve announced, "and once gain our ennui will give way to a succession of astonishing events." He wasn't really drunk, but wine plus the excitement had rhade him a bit lightheaded. "I do worry about Susie, though," said Sue. "She seems so much brighter than the others and I'm afraid that the shift may really mess her up." "Oh, get off it. Sue. I thought you were the one who wasn't so sure that objects existed in the first place. And Susie definitely IF doesn't believe they do. She should be able to cope well with the change. You'll see. Tomorrow morning we'll put the watch under Susie's bowl and it'll just stay there. Want to bet on what happens?" "I don't know," she muttered. "I just hope that nothing goes wrong." She finished her wine and the three left. M onday belonged to Susie. Steve showed no signs of being tense. He was the scientist now and he was careful to make sure that Susie would get no cue from him of the changes to come. He proceeded through the morning ritual, giving Susie a nut from the jar on the counter. She snatched it from his hand and ran over to Mama. Jumping up and down, she dropped it behind Mama -- in a small pile of about a dozen nuts. The smile disappeared from Steve's face. "What the hell?" He whirled to face Sue. "Is this your idea of an apology to Susie -- to give her extra nuts?" Sue's face showed incomprehension. "We went over procedure several times -- there ere to be no changes in today's routine except for the actual shifting of objects from one reality class to another. So you go and give her a dozen nuts the very morning of the switch!" "I did not. I couldn't have. Chuck got here before me. He'll tell you I didn't." "I don't see how she could have, Steve. Someone must have come in before any of us -- or else last night." Steve was in a fury. "Well, if this is someone's idea of a joke it's a pretty poor one." All three stood around, troubled and disappointed. "Look," said Chuck. "We obviously can't change Susie's schedule today." She was sitting in the far corner of her cage, shivering with fright at Steve's violent outburst. "Let's transfer Paul out of the reality cage today and we can switch Susie's schedule to Wednesday. Two days isn't really going to matter and in a month you'll hardly remember what happened." "Okay," muttered Steve. "But first I put up a big no goddam remind me to make sure that those nuts get moved from Susie's cage. They're right behind Mama, over the loading platform. Whoever put the nuts there had a real sense of humor." E verything went smoothly until Steve returned from lunch the next afternoon. He was getting over his anger and had again become excited about Susie's switch, set for the next morning. As he wandered past Susie's cage he saw a fresh pile of nuts behind Mama. He dragged Chuck out of the lab and into the hall. "Have you been here all afternoon?" he asked "Since I left for lunch?" The anger in his voice was obvious. "Essentially, Why?" "What do you mean, 'essentially'?" "I mean yes, except that I went downstairs for a coke around twelve-thirty. What's going on around here?" "Did you give Susie any nuts?" Steve snarled through clenched teeth. "Of course not." Steve was in a rage. "There's a new stack of nuts on the trapdoor behind Mama. And if I find the funnyman whose pulling this. I'll kill him! Tonight those nuts go home with me and I'll bring two in every day." He turned to leave. "I'll be back later. If I try to work in this mood I'll drive Susie up a wall. But I'm still changing her over tomorrow morning." When he came back that afternoon he still couldn't concentrate constructively. People didn't mess up other people's experiments for a joke. Had he somehow managed to offend someone enough to have called down this. kind of vengeance on himself? "Steve," Chuck called. "Pay attention to what you're doing." Steve returned to his senses and realized that Suzie had beeji covering her eyes, trying to make the rattle disappear. As she repeated the gesture he dropped the toy through the trapdoor. "Why don't you call it a day?" Chuck suggested. "It would be a real shame if you messed up badly enough for us to have to postpone the transfer again." Steve nodded. He was tired and discouraged. He trudged out of the lab and took an elevator to the lobby. He was almost out of the building when he realized that he had forgotten the nuts. In a foul humor he rode back upstairs and slammed into the lab. Chuck was closing the door to Susie's cage. "You must really be out of it, Steve," chided Chuck. "You left the rattle in Susie's cage. If I hadn't heard her playing with it she would have had it with her all night." The rule that non-reaUoys should not stay in the cages when the animals were alone was strict. "How could I have?" insisted Steve. "I dropped it out just before I left." "Well no one else has been here since you left, Steve. I'd try to get some extra sleep tonight if I were you. A sleeping pill couldn't hurt any. You're starting to look bad." Steve grunted in irritation and headed for the door. "Don't forget the nuts!" called Chuck. Steve snatched the jar from the bench and stomped out. IF next morning. His night had been filled with nightmares featuring Susie and nuts and watches and rattles, appearing and disappearing. He finally awoke in a cold sweat after he himself had disappeared from his last dream. He was tired and groggy and wanted nothing more than to abandon the whole project. Only the realization that in twelve hours the switch would be completed kept him going. Then he could look forward to another six months of luxurious boredom. He joined Sue fqr breakfast at eight. She was alert and excited by the day's plans. Bu she was visibly shaken by Steve's apparent condition. He told her about the nuts and the rattle, and his dreams of the night before. A grin crept across her face. "I'm sorry, Steve -- it's just that we've come full circle." She couldn't wipe the smile off her face. "You got this whole scheme from me when I doubted the reality of certain interpretations of matter and phenomena -- and I'm almost convinced now you're not sO sure yourself that things are what they seem -- or as they sometimes are represented to be." "That's stupid," he growled. "Come on," she said, rising. "Let's get down to the lab. We wouldn't want Chuck to start without us, would we?" She showed him a huge pout and Steve had to smile despite himself. Chuck was waiting when they reached the lab and he was eager to get started. Steve gave Susie her nut and chatted inanely with her for a couple of minutes. Then he gave Susie the watch to play with. As always, Susie accepted it readily. She danced around the cage, pausing now and then to listen to its ticking. After a few minutes Steve wrestled it away from her and slipped it ynder the bowl. This time it would stay there. In more than a thousand trials during the past year Susie had always seen it disappear and reappear behind Mama. This time it would not. As always, Susie ran to the surrogate Mama and reached for the watch. It wasn't there. Susie froze. She sat motionless for exactly thirty seconds and then started screaming wildly. Steve showed Susie the watch under the bowl and then covered it again. She stared at the bowl for long seconds and then slowly lifted her hands to cover her eyes. "She's trying to' make it disappear," whispered Sue. "She wants it to disappear. Oh, God -- she will go mad this time." Susie uncovered her eyes, walked cautiously to Mama, and peered behind the dummy parent. Immediately she started chattering happily. She reached behind Mama. In an instant she had the watch in her hand. F or a long time Steve, Sue and Chuck simply stared at Susie and the watch. No one said a word. No one moved. What was there to say? Without breaking the silence Steve examined the cage. The trapdoors were all wired properly. The releases were in position. The loading platforms were all empty and the receptacle beneath the bowl was empty. He opened the door to the cage and lifted the bowl. There was nothing there. Three blank faces stared at the bowl. Steve turned to the others. "Have I gone crazy? Did either of you see it? It disappeared. Didn't it?" His voice verged on hysteria. Sue nodded. "Yes -- and then it reappeared behind Mama...We all saw it." "No!" shouted Chuck. "Someone's pulling some sort of a stunt," He didn't sound at all confident of his explanation. "What's the matter with us? It's obviously some sort of a joke. Look out." He pushed past Steve and examined the wires operating the trapdoors and loading platforms. "Everything seems okay," he muttered, but then disconnected the trapdoors and loading platforms. "This reality bit is going to all of our heads." He retrieved the watch from Susie and placed it under the bowl. "Now let's see this work!" He felt foolish. Whoever had rigged this gag would never let them forget their reactions. All three were in position to look behind Mama as Susie covered her eyes. Instantly the watch appeared behind Mama. "This is insane." Steve jammed his hands deep into his pockets. "This just isn't real." He paced back and forth, trying to regain his self-control. 'There is a nice rational explanation for all of this. And we're going to find it." Without saying a word Sue retrieved the watch from Susie. The others stared as she placed the watch on top of the inverted bowl, in plain sight. Susie immediately rais her hands and covered her eyes. A split second later the watch vanished, only to reappear simultaneously behind Mama. "Oh, my God," whispered Chuck. "Steve -- the nuts. They appeared behind the surrogate mother. Just like the watch." Steve stared straight ahead. "Yes." His voice was controlled. "And I know I didn't leave the rattle in there last night." She turned to Steve. "Susie did it, didn't she? She made her reality work." Steve started to laugh. "Well, I guess it isn't morning yet. This has got to be just another one of those nightmares I was having last night." Sue said "Let's break." She turned to Chuck. "Let's go somewhere else -- do something else. I IF don't want to stay here any longer. Not just now." "No," said Chuck. "I want to try a couple of things first. Give me the orange." Sue looked at him blankly. "I want to see if it's real to Susie." Susie had never experienced a real orange. Only a hologram and a smell. He took the orange and put it in Susie's cage by the door. All three gazed ia silence. At first Susie simply ignored it. She had seen the holograms many times and had no reason to suspect that this was any different. After a few minutes Steve reached in and gave the orange a shove. He took the watch from the cage and closed the door. Susie studied the orange intently. She had never seen a hologram roll, so this was definitely a novelty. She approached the orange, sat a foot away from it, considering what to do. Finally she reached out an arm and swatted at it. Her hand went right through tle orange. "Let's get out of here," Chuck urged. "I thought you wanted to test two things," Sue said. She stared at the cage in a trance. "Forget it," said Chuck. "Right now I want to test a pitcher of beer." The three headed for the door. The watch was still clutched in Steve's right hand. As he followed the others out he pulled the door shut behind him. As it closed he felt the watch vanish from his hand. He hurried away. They were waiting for him at the elevators. "You can stay here if you want," he said, without slowing down. "I'm taking the stairs." The others followed him. T heir conversation was rei stricted to the weather as they drank their first pitcher of beer. They were halfway through the second when Chuck violated the unspoken taboo. His face was tense. "I think I believe it," he said and suddenly the clamp that had been holding all three silent was released. "It doesn't make any sense and it can't be and it's crazy -- but I believe it. Something in the back of my brain keeps saying 'She did it, so what?' And I have no answer." "I know," said Steve. "The same thoughts have been going through my head. 'Why not?' my head keeps asking. And I don't know why not; I never really could believe in relativity either. I mean that Sue here could take off in a starship, eat lunch, take a shower, land, get off -- and I'd be eighty years old. But I accept it anyhow, because I've been told it's true. Well this is just the opposite. All my training, all my intellect says, 'You're hallucinating, dreaming, undergoing mass hypnosis -- ' Things like that. But this time something keeps asking. 'Why not?' And I can't answer." "You know," Sue suggested, "in a way we have gone crazy. I mean I don't really think we, have, but if what we saw did actually happen -- then maybe all those other people who have been locked . up for being crazy aren't -- at least some of them. I mean, there's one reality that's accepted -- and if you perceive or believe in any other you're crazy. And ft doesn't matter whether you saw it because you were on drugs or because it really is like that. You're just as crazy in the eyes of the world." She looked from Steve to Chuck and then down at her empty glass. "It's easier," she whispered. "It's easier if you don't try to fight the question of your sanity. Either we are crazy -- or we don't know what the word means any more." She had nothing more to say. "Okay," argued Chuck, "maybe we are crazy -- and maybe Susie did all those things we saw her do. I'm not sure which. But if she did do what we saw her do -- how could she? I mean, a lot of people have watched a lot of monkeys do a lot of things and I've never heard of this before. If we did see what we think we saw there still has to be a logical explanation for it. It's not going to bring everything crumbling down around us -- any more than when people found out that energy could be changed to matter. Forty years ago no one would have believed it possible -- but when the transformation proved. out it didn't destroy the rest of our structures. We just had to modify them a bit." "There's no comparison," objected Steve. "If. some physicist had given a completely incomprehensible lecture and then showed us a machine that could do what Susie did -- we'd have no trouble accepting it. Even if we couldn't understand the explanation, the knowledge that an explanation existed would be all that we'd need. The problem is that we have no explanation for what we just saw. It contradicts everything we've been taught and everything our senses have told us. We can't fit it in anywhere. When you stop to think about it, an aborigine would have more trouble dealing with New York City than we have had with this." Some of the shock was slipping from Steve's mind. He was slowly constructing a web of support for his wounded reality. "But why did it happen now?" insisted Chuck. "Why us?" "That's easy," answered Sue. A picture had 'slowly been forming in her mind, too, but she was afraid of Steve's reaction to it. He wasn't going to like it. "We taught her. Steve, you always said that you would never go into an experparticular results, but that's exactly what you've done. IF "What have we been doing for the past year? We asked the question, 'What happenes when you teach a monkey from infancy that reality is different from what we know it to be? What happens if you convince the monkey that some objects are insubstantial and others can arbitrarily disappear?' Well, we asked the question and we've gotten our answer. The reality they are taught becomes their reality. I don't mean that they believe what is false -- I mean that what is true for them is different from what is true for us. We've all been taught one reality, so we all believe it and it is real for us. Our experiment has never been done before." "That's not actually correct," Chuck put in. "In ancient times people believed in witches, miracles, stuff like that -- and there appeared to be a lot to support their convictions. Whenever quack cures and stories about witches and miracles are discredited, the socalled mysteries seem to stop happening. We have assumed that they never did happen but we don't really know that. We just figured that what we found to be true after we got there was true before. But when you stop to think about it, that sure leaves a lot of unexplained stories. We've just never had anything else to do with the data -- so we chucked it out." "But it still doesn't work," argued Steve. "What about our reality? Maybe Susie expected the watch to disappear and the orange to be insubsUntial -- but I'll be damned if wp did. We expected them both to be just what they always have been for us. How come her reality worked and ours didn't? There were three of us, you know." "That's not fair," replied Sue. "We don't really have that firm a grip on any particular reality. We've all accepted relativity and the wave theory of matter. Steve, you said minutes ago that if some scientist said a fact was reasonable you'd have no trouble accepting it. Well, you'd have a hell of a time convincing Susie. People give up their realities too easily. "The three of us are already accepting what happened. We've got no faith in our realities. But Susie's never lost her faith -- so hers was just that much stronger. I don't think we ever had much chance against her. That's Why crazy people get locked up. The whole purpose of therapy is to convince the person that his or her reality is not real. You know that what I'm saying is almost exactly what a shrink would say. He'd just insist that the reality that the crazy person saw didn't exist. That's the only difference." "Now that's what I call a minor difference," Steve muttered, "So what do we do -- write it up and submit it? That minor difference might just be major enough to get us all locked up for a good long while. We may be conpeople out there who would not." "I'm not sure," Sue protested. "I think you'll find a lot more support than you could imagine." "Well, I still want to know where we go from here." Steve felt better, but the thought of trying to convince someone else of what he. Sue and Chuck thought they had seen happen brought back all of his fears and doubts. "Convince other people," said Chuck. "Professor Coleman's head of psychology. Let's talk to him. But first we'd better show him." "Yes -- don't tell him what's going to happen," warned Siie. "I think he's more sure of his reality than all of us and Susie put together. If he knows what we're expecting, I'm not sure that he couldn't stop her." "Besides," said Chuck. "I'd feel better if someone else saw it, too." A cretive people I've never seen." Coleman was both irritated and interested. "But it's clear that you're going to be insistent, so let's see what this is all about." Steve had practically dragged the short, stocky Coleman from his office, much to the astonishment of his staff. When they reached the lab they found the door ajar and Susie's cage empty. A neat stretch of bars was missing. Coleman pushed past Steve to examine the cage. "Strange," he muttered. "Metal doesn't look like it's been cut. There are no marks at all. How was it done?" He turned to Steve. "I gather this isn't what you intended to show me?" All three started talking at once. In a matter of minutes Coleman was seriously considering calling for three straitjackets. Steve took over. "So you see. Dr. Coleman, Susie must have made the bars disappear, too," he finished, "I know this is going to be hard to -- " The blare of a fire alarm interrupted him. "There's no test schedule for today," muttered Coleman. He grabbed a phone and called his office. "They don't know anything about it," he reported. "Let's go." They took the stairs to the first floor and headed for the front door. As they passed a corridor, they saw a crowd gathered at its end. Someone saw Professor Coleman and hailed him. Dr. Lewis Pearson, a younger member of the psychology department faculty, waved from the edge of the crowd and was obviously quite upset. Coleman started down the hall at a jog. Steve, Sue and Chuck followed IF him. The crowd parted to let them through. They found themselves staring at the outer wall of the building. Or, rather, out through the wall. A circle three feet in diameter and some six inches above the floor had been cut out of the wall. It was a perfectly clean hole and it looked disturbingly familiar to the four. Pearson was speaking hurriedly to Coleman: "... and it appears that that's why she pulled the alarm. She's completely incoherent, but she sticks to her story. She says the monkey just covert its eyes and the hole appeared. "I've called the hospital for an ambulance, but we still have this crazy hole to deal with. Look at it. The edges are clean. How could anyone make a hole like this and not be noticed?" Pearson looked at Coleman for an answer. "Where's the girl?" asked Coleman. "I think I'd better talk to her." "She's in your office -- the secretaries are taking care of her." Coleman wordlessly took off for his office, Steve, Sue and Chuck still a part of his entourage. "You know she's telling the. truth, Coleman, don't you?" Steve said. "We've got to get Susie back. God only knows what she may do if she gets scared." "When I need your advice I'll ask for it." Coleman spoke over his shoulder as he strode. "If you want to handle the fire department and the police and whatever else -- they're yours. But as regards this poor woman. I'm at least temporarily in charge." Steve walked with him in silence. They found the girl sitting between two comforting secretaries in Coleman's office. Tears were streaming down her cheeks, and she looked scared. "I swear  saw it," she said. "I'm not crazy. A monkey just made the hole appear." Coleman sent the other women away. "We know," he said quietly. "The monkey escaped from one of our labs and we're looking for her. Do you know which way she went after she got out?" Coleman sounded and looked as if he only half believed his own words. "Don't play games with me," the girl whispered. "I saw it, I really did -- " Sue came forward and put an arm around the girl. "Dr. Coleman's not playing games," she said. "He's just having a hard tinie believing what's happened. So am I. You're not crazy. Not at all. Really." The girl started to whimper quietly. "Come on," said Coleman. "We can leave her with my staff. We've got to find that damn monkey of yours. The fire trucks arrived. Coleman spoke to the fire chief and asked to use the car radio. "Put me in touch with Chief Heninger." Coleman was contacting the police chief. "Chief Heninger? This is Dr. Coleman, Tm head of the psychology department at the university. I'm afraid we're going to need your help." "What seems to be the problem?" Coleman hesitated. This would have to be phrased carefully. "I can't explain all the details. I'm afraid. The project is classified. Goverment security. We've been conducting some very important experiments with a group of monkeys and one of them has escaped. We need your help to find her and get her back." "Have you tried the humane society. Dr. Coleman? They're animal exp -- " "You don't understand," Coleman snapped. "Look, Heninger, this monkey is dangerous. It may be more dangerous at this moment than any other living creature. I can't begin to tell you the damage it could cause if it's not caught. This is an emergency and a big one. Get the humane society, too, but we need every man you've got." Coleman paused for a second. "I'll take full responsibility if there's any problem about your committing so many men to it, but we need literally everything you've got. This monkey could wipe out the whole city!" Quiet static hummed over the radio and Heninger's' breathing could be heard in the background. "What do you mean dangerous?" he finally asked. "This monkey got some kind of disease? Or does -- " Steve grabbed the microphone from Coleman and signaled to the others to be quiet. He began talking in a deep voice, hoping he remembered lines from an amateur theatrical he had appeared in during his undergraduate days. This was a dangerous gambit, he knew, but it was necessary. "Heninger? Just shut up a second. This is Mafrom this district." Some of it was coming back to him, but he was also improvising nicely. His confidence grew, "t'm slapping a complete security blanket on this affair right now. That's official. I don't want you talking to any reporters or anyone else about this. You just tell them you're looking for a missing monkey. Don't say a word more. Understand?" Heninger sounded impressed. "Yes, Major. I understand." "Good. Are these lines secured?" "Secured, sir?" Heninger was not at all sure of what was going on. ' "Secured. Are they scrambled? Or can just anyone with a radio pick this up?" Steve was beginning to enjoy reliving the old role IF -- these last lines were straight out of that long-ago play. "No, sir, they're not. We're not set up for anything like that." Steve turned to Coleman and spoke for Heninger's benefit. "Well, Professor, give him any instructions you can, but remember that the lines are not secured." He handed the microphone back to Coleman and sank back into his seat. He found himselt at once exhilarated and scared, but evidently the p)oy had worked. He listened to Coleman. "Just put every man you have on it. We've got to get her back, and fast." Coleman paused. "And listen. Chief, it's a really strange monkey. When you catch her, tell your men to tie her hands behind her back." He spoke slowly. "And if it looks as if she were going to cover her eyes shoot her -- fast. And shoot to kill." He looked away from Steve. The decision had been his to make and he had made it. Silence fell at the other end of the line before Heninger asked, "Is that all. Dr. Coleman?" "Yes, that's all I can think of now." Coleman sounded exhausted and Steve realized the man had been made to act forcefully out of character. "I'll keep in touch. If you'd tell us the location of any sightings of her. I'd appreciate it." "Very good, sir. I'll send out the alert right away." T en minutes later the call came through on the fire chiefs radio. "We've just received a call about a monkey spotted at Morheim and Blake. Car Seventeen is almost there and on its way. We'll keep you informed." "Right," Steve answered for Coleman. "We're also on our way." They took off for the area. It would take several minutes to get there. They weren't halfway there when Heninger called back. He was clearly upset. "Coleman, what the hell kind of monkey is that?" "What seems to be the problem, Heninger?" asked Steve. "How the hell should I know? Nelson in Car Seventeen Just called in and he's completely incoherent. Keeps saying something about his partner having disappeared while trying to catch that monkey. I'm trying to find out where he went to, but Nelson keeps saying that he just disappeared. He sounds crazy, Coleman, and I want to know what's going on." Sieve took the mike. "Heninger, this is Pomeroy. I thought I told you that this could not be discussed on unsecured lines. You're just going to have to believe that what you're doing is right. We're approaching Morheim and Blake now. Have there been any more sightings?" "No," reported Heninger glumly. "But my men are fanning out. If the monkeys keeps going in the direction she was first heading, she'll be getting into the mountains pretty soon." The fire chief's car reached Morheim and Blake as Nekon was being taken into another prowl car by fellow cops. As they drove off he looked completely stunned. "It looks like Susie's taken her first casualty," commented Chuck. No one answered. "Coleman, are you there?" It was Heninger. "I'm here. What do you want?" "We've lost contact with Car Twelve. We're having all our men on the lookout for it, so that means you, too. Can that monkey... Hold it;" A pause came while Heninger talked to someone else. "Coleman, they've found our car at Gasser and Blake." Steve gestured and the fire chief's car turned and headed down Blake. It was five blocks to Gasser. Heninger reported intermittently. "It's sitting in the middle of the street... the men inside aren't moving... they look like they're frozen in place. I'm getting this from Car Eight, they're sending a man over to Car Twelve. Can't you tell me anything about what we're up against?" There was a pleading tone in Heninger's voice. But they had reached Gasser, and Steve got out of the car, followed by Chuck. Chuck realized what had happened before anyone. "The holograms" he whispered. The policeman had just reached Car Twelve. "Wait!" called Steve, but he was too late. The man had reached for the handle of the car door and had fallen right through the door, through both of the car's occupants and the floor of the car to land heavily on the street below. He started to get up, saw himself merged with the driver and fainted. His partner, who had watched the whole affair from Car Eight, started babbling hysterically into his radio. Steve reached into the fire chief's car for the mike and called Heninger. "Listen, Heninger," he said. "I'm afraid things are getting out of hand. I want to change plans -- " "You're damn right they're out of hand!" shouted Heninger. "I just got a call from Coleman's office that Parker, the man from Car Seventeen who disappeared, showed up in one of Coleman's monkey cages. He's stark raving mad. What is God's name is going on? That's five miles from where he disappeared -- " "Heninger, shut up and listen," Steve barked. "Pull your men back a bit. I don't want them to try to capture the monkey. Just follow it at a distance and keep us informed as to its whereabouts. We'll try to take it ourselves." "That's fine with me," retorted Heninger. "It's definitely heading for the mountains." "Heninger, we're going to want IF a megaphone and portable twoway radio when we catch up with her," Steve said. He paused for a moment.'"And a rifle." T he fife chiefs car caught up with Susie in a clearing just outside the city limits. She was heading for the mountains. Four police cars sat at the edge of the field, some two hundred yards from Susie. They had gotten a vague, illogical story about the Car Twelve affair and wanted nothing to do with the monkey. The police gave Steve the megaphone, radio and a carbine. He had little idea of exactly what he was going to do, but the responsibility was now his. Coleman was a fine administrator, but Susie was Steve's project and would remain so until this issue was settled. One . way or the other, he thought. He took off at a jog after Susie. "Steve, wait for me," called Sue, running up to him. "I'm coming, too." Steve said, "You're not coming. First of all. I'd have to worry about you, too. Then -- two people are much more likely to panic Susie. Finally -- you'll slow me down. I have no idea how fast she's going to be moving." He started off again before she could argue and Chuck led her back to the car. For an hour or so Steve simply followed Susie at a distance. She was aware of his presence, but did nothing about it. She moved slowly, being unsure of the world. Until today her whole life had been spent in a cage and now she had much to cope with. It would not make the situation any easier, Steve realized, if he startled her now. She would be upset until she began to get accustomed to the vaster world. He had tried twice to call her by megaphone. Each time Susie had only responded by speeding up her pacc He followed her into the mountains for another hour and tried the megaphone again. i "lusie, come here, Susie. It's me, Steve. I've got some nuts for you." They were on the scree field now and Susie's size and agility were giving her greater and grtaU er advantage over Steve. He was losing ground fast. It was then that he had decided he would have to shoot. He pretended that he would be shooting to wound, but he was far from an expert marksman and she was a good hundred and fifty feet away. The carbine turned out to be more powerful than he had expected and his shot hit ,the boulders twenty feet above and beyond her. Susie got the message fast. She spun around, screaming angrily, looking for Steve. But he was behind a large lichen-covered boulder, out of her sight. The next thing he m knew the mountainside was coming down on top of him. H e was truly frightened now, for the first time in his memory. He had never really considered that his life was at stake in this venture. Losing now would make an even worse ending for his thesis than what had already happened. It was getting dark and neither Steve nor any of the sharpshooters had seen so much as a hint of Susie. The sun was sinking rapidly. In another fifteen minutes it would be behind the mountains and the helicopter would be coming in to evacuate the area. , The radio came alive with Sue's voice. "Steve, don't do anything until I get there. They're flying me in now. I can stop Susie. The whole situation has changed." Her voice was strained. "I'll be there in five minutes. Tell those army people to hold their fire while I try." The connection was broken and Steve could already hear the approaching helicopter. He relayed her message to the other hunters just as the aircraft appeared over the ridge. In another minute it was hovering ten feet off the ground and Sue scampered down a rope ladder. The helicopter was gone in an Instant, climbing at full thrust. Steve pointed to the general area where he knew Susie had to be. "Be careful," he whispered. Sue started slowly toward the hidden monkey. "Susie, Susie -- it's all right, Susie. Come on out Susie -- it's me." She held her hands out in front of her. "I've got some nuts for you." There was a slight movement about fifty feet down the scree field to her right. Sue came to within ten feet of where Susie was hidden. She stopped. "Good Susie, everything's going to be all right, Susie. Here are some nuts." She threw the nuts just to one side of Susie's hiding place. After a moment Susie appeared. Cautiously, she took a nut and ate it. Her nervousness seemed to abate when she saw no one else and she started into the rest of the nuts, keeping one eye on Sue. Slowly Sue raised her hands from her sides up to her lips. "Goodbye, Susie. Maybe we'll meet again," she whispered and slowly covered her eyes. Susie was gone.  IF Q#I# I Special introductory Offer good u'j the United States, the Unifed KmgdoiTT and Canada H. G. Wells, science fiction -- often termed "future fiction" -- has fascinated alert minds. Not only has it entertained. It has predicted much of the far-ranging scientific and social change now upon us. authors of the genre continue to speculate, to predict, to tackle the prime problems already shaping tomorrow. Ecology -- space exploration -- nuclear promise and fhreat -- energy -- social evolution and biological revolution -- these and other fields are probed by imaginative stories uniquely exciting and rewarding. So let your fancy run free. Subscribe nowl For U.S. and Canada, send coupon to: Naw York, N.Y. # For United Kingdom, send coupon to: London #W# #RD G # issues of IF for #  # issues of IF for # of IF for # of IF for # Enclosed find in payment for my subscription as checked above. Soma Contributors Past and Prasont Pou! Anderson iseec Asknov Alfred Bester James BUsh Robert Bloch Ray Bradbury Arthur C. Clarka L Sprague de Camp Lester del Rey Robert A. Heinlein Wmy Ley DonaU H. Manse! J. R. Pierce Frederik Pohl Robert S. Richardson Robert Silverberg Theodore Sturgeon A.E. Van Vogt Kurt Vonnegut Jr. The planet was perfect for human seeding...but who reaped the harvest? I When heat began to flte upward through rock and soil, when the leaf clusters she had generated that morning nourished her with steadily diminishing quantities of solar energy, Mnarra knew evening approached. Slowing, stopping, she called back the plasmic arms of herself which had flowed through the soil ahead of her main body. Reunited, she dissolved the taut cable of elastic root strands that connected her to the leaf clusters, which by now lay two miles south of her position. Then she began to generate a new cable of strands upward. When the strands separated near the surface she spun out glossy new clusters of leaves to tower above the sparse spring vegetation on the hillside. The leaves spread deep green faces to the moons. Faint washes of reflected solar energy reached Mnarra. She gathered herself into a pocket of limestone for the night. She was an ageless being who traveled alone and neither rock, soil nor water hindered her. She stopped only for night and then she soothed herself with ancient electrochemical conjugations, patterns as old as time. As old as Mnarra's time. Hours later the leaf clusters alerted her. Sunlight grayed the darkness. Soon would be dawn, the celebration. Mnarra prepared the scarlet blossoms with which she always greeted the new Sun. The sun rose. Her new leaves transmitted its energy deep. Mnarra shuddered, enraptured. Her blossoms unfurled splendidly, one from the center of each leaf cluster, velvety petals coiling and spiraling out from soft golden eyes. She began to move again. Northward, always northward during the days of spring. The elastic cable of strands stretched dfter her. The leaf clusters fed her generously. bn the other hillside, two miles south, the leaf clusters that had served her the previous day wilted. The scarlet flowers that had celebrated the previous dawn drooped and died. But this was of no r,eal consequence. Mnarra had created. Mnarra had drawn nourishment. Now Mnarra continued her season's journey. Thus always. IF hoverscooter Brennan hung briefly at the crest of the hill. Sweeping down its western flank. Earth grasses grew tender and green. At the foot of the hill, on the edge of the plain. New Powell was a collection of domes and dorms, each with its own broad apron of lawn. Then, like rays, the fields spread from the edge of the settlement. Corn stretched due west in a wide swath. Beans, tomatoes, squash, beets grew in thriving rows. And bounding the rays was a deep arc of wheat. Brennan's eyes swept back up the hill to appraise the grazing Jerseys. It had been a busy ten months since landfall. There had been fields to clear; shelters to erect, the dairy herd to incubate from embryonic motes to birthstage calves and then to tend carefully through motherless infancy. But now their first growing season was successfully launched and Brennan could hang here forgetting this was an alien world. He could imagine instead that he and his party had moved back through time to an era when their own Earth was a place of rolling hills and swaying grasses, to a time when the sky was blue, when puffy white clouds moved across it like great mindless gods set adrift. He could hang here and pretend CityAmerica had never been perpetrated upon the North American continent, that the congested gray sky clamminess of total urban development had somehow been averted, the pastoral values preserved, cherished. And then he could move north from the crest of the hill and find himself upon an alien world again. His shoulders tightened as he did so. The vegetation below him now was not so different in form from what he might have found in the American wilderness centuries before. Green plants crawled, stood, reached, some with leaves palmate, others with leaves fanshaped, oval or round. The difference lay in response to season. Brennan had hopped these nearer hills a dozen times in the months since landfall. In late summer the vegetation had been lush and green. In autumn it had remained green. It had never browned for winter. Then with the onset of spring, despite frequent showers, the vegetation faded. Dark green became pale, even yellow. Now, two weeks after Brennan's last survey, barren soil showed through in large dark patches. Brennan took the scooter low. He had never observed the plants below to bloom or to seed. There appeared to be no other form of regeneration in progress either. He pulled the scooter high again, hoping that when he crossed the hills directly to the north, he would find a different scene. What he found was the same yellow-green carpet, sparse and unencouraging. He hung over the wilting hills, troubled. Perhaps this was normal for spring. Perhaps it wasn't. Last fall they had cleared their selected fields and hillsides in full expectation that the native vegetation would reappear, that they would have to root it out again. But it hadn't reappeared. Brennan frowned thoughtfully. The survey report, certainly, had told them little about native plant life beyond the fact that most species were inedible, many poisonous to warmblooded animal life. The logical assumption, in view of the observed phenomena, was that the plant life of this world followed a different seasonal cycle from that of Earth vegetation, that it reproduced by radically different methods. But he had not checked the hoverscooter out to contemplate the dying hillsides. Today was the day he made his first visit to the crater area some miles north of the settlement. He lofted. F rom the survey report he had visualized a few dozen small craters -- shallow, perhaps five feet in diameter -- pocking the arm of the plain that reached around the hills to the north. Half an hour later he crossed the final barricade of hills and caught his breath, startled. Below' lay a vast area of land totally disfigured by craters forty feet and more in diameter -- and deep. They interlocked in a crazy chain, some with rims sharp and relatively soil. Unbelieving, he swung his scooter to measure the area. At noon he set down on a hillside, stepped off the scooter. The craters claimed a swath of plain three miles wide and seven miles deep. The entire area was pocked, crater superimposed upon crater. Only a few appeared recent. Most were older. Some had refilled with soil, only slight indentations marking their locations. Still others held water. Brennan's shoulders tightened with anger. EarthAuthority had permitted his people to erect their settlement and claim their fields a bare ten miles from this devastation zone -- without informing them of the magnitude of the phenomenon, without making any attempt to discover the forces behind the pocking, without even drawing charts to show the distribution of crater zones across the face of this continent. That was one of the few concrete facts he had gleaned from the report, that this area was one of dozens scattered across the continent. Abruptly Brennan reboarded the scooter and lifted off the hillside. Swinging down, he apIF proached the freshest crater, maneuvered the scooter down into it. Gingerly he avoided the steeply sloping walls. He tilted the vehicle to peer over the side, undamped the handlamp and shone it down. He could see nothing at the bottom of the crater but mud. Did meteorites bury themselves? He frowned. Did meteorites, for that matter, fall within sharply defined geographical belts? He took the scooter up. Meteorites were one of the many topics his perfunctory CityAmerica education had not touched upon. But if these craters were not the result of meteorite showers, what other explanation was plausible? Explosive deposits of natural gas? If so, what had detonated them? He returned home over the plain, detouring out and around the jutting line of hills. He hovered low, watching the terrain grimly. He found no trace of any crater beyond the devastation zone. So perhaps there was no actual threat to the settlement. Nevertheless, later in the week he returned afoot with a crew of men. They lowered into the four most recent craters to attempt to excavate whatever rock of metal bodies might have impacted the soil with such force. They found nothing to excavate, emerged empty-handed. As they packed their gear for the return trek, DiChiara, Brennan's second in command, scratched the dark soil thoughtfully. "I don't see any sign that this is a volcanic area." Brennan's gaze moved from the plain to the hills, gentle, sensuous in their almost fleshlike contours. He was all too aware that his eyes were untrained. "I don't either," he said without conviction. "Next week I'll take the scooter south for a recon run." DiChiara glanced at him sharply. "You think you'll find another crater area down there?" . "I don't know what I'll find." DiChiara stretched erect. "Maybe I could ride along." Brennan was noncommittal. "Maybe so, Dick." He hitched his shovel upon his back. The expedition had not been productive. His disquietude was greater now than it had been earlier. There should have been something at the bottom of the craters, Mlondas moved deep when it was cold, stretching taut the cable of root strands that connected him to his leaf clusters. But on warm days he skimmed near the surface, a thin layer of plasma rippling through the topsoil, unhindered by roots and nodes. Now it was spring and those roots grew flaccid. But Mlondas did not mourn the ground cover that withered overhead. Where it thinned, the soil lay bare and the sun's warmth poked through in friendly fingers. Soon the intensity of heat told him the sun was at zenith. He paused to spread himself molecule-thin in the upper inch of topsoil. Dawn was the celebration, the occasion for creating great waxen white flowers to declare his formal ecstasy. But noon was more dear. Rapturously he basked. The time passed and Mlondas drew himself together, flowed into a deeper layer and continued on. There weren't many minutes to tarry. An ancient being, Mlondas traveled slowly. Traveled slowly, traveled south, in spring. Thus always. T hey moved a hundred feet above the plain, Brennan and DiChiara. Brennan watched the ground intently, trying to conceal his irritation. He had looked forward to a solitary hover. But DiChiara had talked his way aboard. Now DiChiara talked his way southward. "You ever wonder how the Latins developed as a talkative, volatile race while Northern Europeans are typically repressed and quite distant?" "I didn't," Brennan admitted, unencouragingly. "Well, contrast the climates they evolved from. The Latins never had to contain themselves. They could expand all over the great outdoors -- year 'round. But the Scandinavians were sealed up together months at a time, drifted in, surrounded by hostile elements. No way to escape each other but in -- into themselves. If they let themselves express every emotion, like the Latins, if they -- well, take that dorm blowup between Swenson and Diaz last winter, during the rains, Swen was simply reacting -- " Brennan's hands tightened on the controls. So they were back to Swenson. "Swenson has permission to erect an individual shelter anywhere within the boundaries of the settlement. I granted that several months ago." DiChiara nodded. "Sure. Sure. BjLit Swen wants to locate on the other side of the fields. He's of Swedish stock. He wants privacy. He figures that after next month, when he and Tilla are married -- " "No. It's policy, Dick -- until the ship checks back we live as a unit. There are half-dozen couple cottages Swen and Tilla can choose from if they don't want to build." DiChiara moved discontentedly. "Now look, Bren, this isn't CityAmerica, These people IF came here to be free -- and you're administering New Powell like an Earthside housing development." Brennan peered at DiChiara. Smiled grimly. He remembered his childhood, remembered a pale finger of sunlight falling onto the asphalt play area at the bottom of the concrete-slab canyon, remembered fighting savagely to occupy it. Now he glanced at the bright sun overhead. "I'm running New Powell like a detachment to a world we know very little about. Over the next four years we'll learn. Then we can disperse and enjoy our freedom." "For God's sake, Bren! What is there to learn? There's no animal life here. Not even insects. The survey ship determined that much. So if Swen and Tilla clear a place and put in Earth grasses, fence the area after they have children, come out to the fields every day like everyone else -- " Brennan shook his head. "Drop it, Dick." New Powell had been endowed, like every EarthAuthority-sponsored settlement, with equipment, food, supplies and seeds to insure survival through their first five settlement years. The ship would check back at the end of that period. If they had succeeded in making the planet bear, it was theirs. But if they had failed they would be returned to CityAmerica, to the bottom of the planet party list. those of them who chose to try again. Brennan was aware that his headsman's training had been as perfunctory as his early, tityAmerica education. But one principle he had grasped firmly. It was not always the hard worlds, the hostile worids, that defeated the settling party. Sometimes it was the lush worlds. The too-easy worlds. This could be one. The colonists faced no anomalies of terrain or climate here. There was no hostile animal life. The sky was bright, the air fragrant. The fields were already thriving, the young dairy stock flourishing. But Brennan didn't intend to let his people relax and enjoy until they had passed their first five-year test. They continued across the plain in strained silence. Five miles south of New Powell, Brennan began zigging and zagging, cutting broad swaths across the yellow-green terrain. Ten miles south DiChiara came to life again. "You ever think what's going to happen if all these plants die and the ground is bare when the rains come?" "I've thought about it. But the heavy rains aren't due before late fall. I'm sure the ground cover will regenerate by then." DiChiara shrugged. "Nan Perry suggested we sow the hills right away. Just in case." Brennan's brow rose. "Oh?" "We have grass seed enough to cover a dozen of the nearest hills. They'd take now and hold the soil. A month from now it might be too late." Brennan shook his head. "No, we're not scattering seed that far afield until we've had more time to evaluate the local life cycle." "Well, it's going to demolish our life cycle if the hills come down and we're inundated in mud." Brennan sighed. "Look, Dick, there's no sign these hills have ever come down. We landed in late summer and the vegetation was thick. Between now and late summer this year, something will happen. The ground will be covered again." DiChiara appraised Brennan darkly. "Maybe you should put that sentiment in a frame and hang it at the next community meeting. I hear things you don't." Brennan frowned. "Do you?" "Some of our people think we've killed this world." Brennan's brows arched, underscoring his patent disbelief. "Well, look around. It's spring -- and everything is dying. Everything except our crops. Twan Yano says we've pierced the flesh and the beast perishes. Nan Perrysays we've already destroyed the planet's ecology by putting down our alien seeds. Nick Sorenson thinks we've introduced a new element, some element that didn't exist here before and now it's poisoned all the plant life. Kerri Rice says. -- " His recital was interrupted. Brennan swung the scooter abruptly, his eyes intent on the ground. Describing a broad arc, he brought the scooter down. "All right, look at that!" DiChiara looked, clinging to the passenger bar. His speech dribbled away into un-Latinate silence. B rennan dismounted. At his feet a broad patch of dark green foliage sprang from the soil. The leaves grew in clusters, dozens of clusters, young and aggressive. Each cluster was crowned with a single scarlet blossom, its velvety petals corkscrewing gracefully from a deep golden center. Suddenly DiChiara was beaming, his dark face transformed. "Hey! It's spring, Brennie! The place is blooming!" He laughed. "Hey, do you think -- " "I think we'd better leave the flowers where they are." "And bring the people instead. Hover them out in pairs. Yano and Nan Perry first. Sorenson and Rice next. Schroeder and Vincinzi.Then -- " Brennan shook his head. "No, even by twos, that would add up to seventy-five round trips. I think we can declare a day off for anyone who wants to hike out." IF "Um." DiChiara considered the proposition, nodded vigorously. "Sure. Just run the scooter out with picnic supplies. Make a day of it, a real day. A spring festival." Brennan was less enthusiastic about festivals than about facts. He stooped, touched a single crisp leaf, turned it, examined it. "I've never seen this plant before," he said, his face serious. "Yeah? Well, lots of plants only pop up at certain seasons, don't they?" "Lots of plants -- Earth plants -- bloom only at certain seasons. Usually the foliage is on display for longer periods." Brennan stood, frowned across the plain. He reboarded the scooter. "Let's see if we can spot another stand of it." In the horscooter they described a series of broadening semi-circles. Some minutes later they spotted the second patch. Approached it. Landed. Stood saying nothing. The second patch of foliage lay two miles south of the first. And it was dying. DiChiara looked uneasily back in the direction of the first patch. "Well, there's no way to tell how long these leaves have been out," he said. "Who knows? It might be a species that only lives a week or two." "Might be." DiChiara paced around the ragged patch of dying greenery. "Or water shortage? We've had showers, but maybe out here -- " He shrugged, offering the theory deprecatingly. Brennan rejected it. "The other patch is only two miles away. It doesn't look parched." 'm." DiChiara brightened. "Well, maybe if we take another hop we'll find a third patch. In better shape." Brennan chewed his lip. "Good idea." They hopped. The third patch of leaf clusters lay almost three, miles farther south. This patch wasn't dying. It was dead. "I think we'd better bring the ag team out here before we let the others know about these plants," Brennan said when they had paced around the brown vegetation, handled the collapsed flowers. DiChiara nodded. "It would really shoot morale if everyone heard about this. The only thing coming up -- and it's dying as fast as it grows." "That's not necessarily significant, Dick. We can't expect plant life here to follow the same seasonal schedule we'd expe'et on our own world." Good words. Reasonable words. But Brennan's feelings, as he lifted the hoverscooter back toward New Powell, were not of the same order. 'At least we didn't spot another crater zone in our backyard' DiChiara pointed out. II still more confused two days later when he and DiChiara hiked the ag team across the plain expecting to find the patch of flowers ten miles south of New Powell. They found it six miles south instead, fresh and vigorous, blooming in the midmorning sun. DiChiara checked his pedometer, took visual bearings. He growled, "This isn't where we left our leafy friends. Is it, Bren?" Brennan was stepping around the clusters of leaves, measuring off the dimensions of the patch. "This isn't the same patch at all. It's more oblong. And has slightly less area." DiChiara squatted, touching the point of a leaf. He addressed Schroeder, New Powell's chief agtech. "Well, what do you make of it, Schroeder?" Schroeder's lopsided lips curled up. "What do I make of what?" He examined the leaf clusters perfunctorily. "It's a patch of something. It's growing out of the ground. I think it lives here." DiChiara stood, embarrassed. Brennan smiled tightly. With crops booming, Schroeder and Vincinzi were cocky. The hike across the plain had turned into a contest, ag team pushing to outdo command team. "I think the point, Dick, was to compare a healthy patch with an unhealthy patch -- and decide what made the difference." DiChiara rubbed his dark hair. "But the healthy patch we had in mind is four miles on. And the unhealthy patch is two miles past that." "And you boys can't manage it?" Schroeder suggested. The command team could manage it. Or could have. But less than two miles from the new patch of leaf clusters, they encountered a second patch, a dying patch. Two miles beyond that, they reached a dead patch. "This is the one we were looking at the other day," DiChiara said, shaking his head. "It was in the same condition then that the first one is now. And the one beyond it -- two miles farther out -- was in the same condition as the one we found two miles ahead today. And two miles beyond that -- " Schroeder groaned. "Two miles beyond that," DiChiara insisted doggedly, "was. a dead patch. Dead like this one." Vincinzi pulled a pad from her pocket. "Dick, could you run through that again and let me make a pictorial representation?" "I don't think he can say all that again," Schroeder said. But DiChiara could. And then they clustered around Vincinzi, IF intently studying her diagram. "It might be significant that all these patches of vegetation are aligned north and south," she said thoughtfully, nibbling the end of her jotter. "And there's a north-south sequence to the life stage, too." DiChiara nodded. "The freshest patch is always farthest north, the wilting one in the middle, the dead patch south." "What does that prove?" Schroeder demanded. Vincinzi was carefully detailing her representation to indicate progressive life stae. "Do you think it would be all right if we dug a few of these withered clusters?" she asked Brennan. He shrugged. "I don't think it can hurt anything. You might learn something from the roots." What they learned was that the clusters had no roots. The stems extended inches into the soil. Then there was nothing. They laid the dug clusters out on the ground and sfared at them in perplexity. "What keeps the damn things alive?" Schroeder growled, his interest finally engaged, ( DiChiara grinned. "Nothing keeps them alive. They're dead." Schroeder glowered, kicked the pile at their feet. "All right, let's move north again and dig samples from the other two stands." T he middle stand, dying, was as rootless as the first. Their selected cluster from the northernmost stand, however, resisted their efforts to remove it from the soil. When they had dug to a depth of two feet, they shoveled dirt out of the area beneath the base of the plant stem. Extending from the stem was a single wiry strand. Vincinzi brushed the soil from the strand and tested it gingerly with her forefinger. She looked up at the three men. "It's tough. And it's growing toward the middle of the stand. We won't be able to follow it without uprooting other plants." "You can uproot a plant that has no roots?" Shroeder asked darkly"There may be a large communal root," Vincinzi pointed out, standing. "Near the center of the cluster." Brennan squatted, examined the tough strand. He shook his head. "We don't want to dig any farther into the patch. But we could poke around the edges some more." They poked. All the wiry strands grew toward the center of the clump, "All right," Schroeder said vengefully, when they stood back from the patch of green. "We're marching two miles due south again, children, and we're digging out that entire patch. We're digging to a depth of five feet, ten if we have to, to find that central root. Because I want to see it." He hoisted his shovel over his shoulder. "Objections, Brennan?" Brennan peered souths narrowed his eyes in thought. The patch there was obviously moribund. "No objections." This time their trek south was silent. When they reached the dying stand of vegetation, they set to work doggedly, digging, piling the limpening leaf clusters on their flaccid stems to one side. They dug to a depth of five feet. It grew dusky around them. They dug a foot farther. Then they ate, dispirited."Well, I don't know," Schroeder said finally. "There ought to be something down there -- somewhere." "Maybe if we kept digging," DiChiara suggested lamely. "Sure, sure," Schroeder said in disgust. "Why don't we bring the whole settlement out and dig up the entire plain. If we don't find anything -- at least we could plant the area for fall." It was dark when they began the trek back across the plain. The two moons overhead were gold and gray against the dark sky. In the distance they could see the frail light of New Powell. Soon they saw something else! Four miles from New Powell an entirely new patch of leaf clusters grew, springing green and vigorous from the.soil. Vincinzi took it calmly, Schroeder blackly, Brennan silently. It was DiChiara who had hysterics. When he was calm again Vincinzi said, "You know, I think these plants are going north for the summer. I think they're migrating." Brennan nodded, admitting to the inevitability of the conclusion. "I think you could be right, Vin." "I think no one's going to believe how we spent the day," Schroeder groaned. DiChiara scrambled to his feet. "Well, I know how I'm going to spend the rest of the night. I'm going to bed." He stumbled away toward New Powell. The night was disturbed. Strange things occurred above. The soil was jarred in an unsettling fashion. Mnarra quivered and burrowed deeper, stretching her new root strands tight. She huddled, uncertain. Later she flowed cautiously back to the upper layers of soil. The disturbance had passed. She remained alert for a while, ready to retreat. Finally she relaxed and lulled herself with the conjugations of night. Her fresh leaf clusters caught mellow silvergold moonbeams and fed her that light sustenance while she dreamed. cinzi stepped into the headIF man's dome. She hesitated uncertainly at the door to Brennan's office. "I'm a little upset, Bren. There's something we should have caught last night when we decided those plants wefe migrating." Brennan nodded, motioning toward the papers that lay on his secretary. "I was just getting to it." "Oh?" Surprised, she bent, studied the rough map he had drawn. "They're due to pop up at the south end of the cow pasture some time tomorrow night, if they continue on the same course at the same rate," he said. "Whether they turn up just inside or just outside the fence depends upon how exactly they conform to the average distance of two miles a day." "Yes, that's how I calculated it, too." "Mention it to anyone?" She shook her head. "Not even to Schroeder. We can't let the cattle near that foliage. Can we?" "We can't." Brennan tapped the microviewer on his desk. "I rechecked the plant files last night. The survey team only tested the most prevalent species. This species wasn't among those. But more local species are poisonous than not." "If it only appears at this season and only in isolated patches the survey team may not have seen it." Vincinzi frowned thoughtfully. "We don't even have a place to house the cattle temporarily, do we?" "We're canning beans in the cow barn today." The enclosed cattle structures of the winter before had been disassembled, their components formed into a single open cattle shelter in the pasture and processing sheds near the fields for the first crops. Brennan directed Vincinzi's attention back to his map. "The pasture is five miles long between the hillside portions and the plains portion that reaches behind New Powell. The plants, whatever they are, should erupt inside the fenced area twice." "Don't we have some spare fence we could throw around the foliage when it appears?" Vincinzi proposed. "We do. But we're claiming this land, Vin. Just this one small parcel, for the time being. There's half a continent to our east and half a continent to our west. I want that flower bed to learn to detour around us." Vincinzi smiled palely at the image. "I don't believe any of our people have ever trained a flower bed, Bren." "It's a skill most CityAmericans neglect to develop," Brennan agreed dryly. "Here's my idea. Tomorrow we disassemble the pasture cow shelter. Around noon we establish a watch in the area where we expect those plants to erupt. As soon as they show, we cover them with roof sheeting from the cow shelter. That stuff's pretty tough. It should hold them. Then we string fencing around the patch for a few days. The next day we set a guard on the entire pasture, because once we've disrupted the 'pattern, there's no telling when or where new foliage is likely to reappear. When it shows its head again, we follow the same procedure." "In other words we smother the plants out?" "I hope it doesn't amount to that. According to my map, they will pass through the western half of the pasture. I'll be satisfied if we can divert them to the other side of the fence and keep them there." Vincinzi was troubled. "But the species may not have lateral mobility, you know. It occurred to me that perhaps there is one very deep root that extends for miles, with the foliage and flowers erupting at intervals along it. I'm assuming it lies much deeper than we dug last night," "Well, if that's the case, maybe we can teach it not to erupt along the interval that includes our lands." "Maybe. But this seems out of line with the way we treated the plant yesterday. We were very conservative about interfering with it then." ""That was before we realized it was coming through the cow pasture. I wouldn't be so gentle with any other native species that appeared inside our territory." Vincinzi was still not entirely pleased with the proposed plan. But she could advance none to match it. "We'll have to tell the others about the plant, won't we?" "I'm calling a community meeting tonight." It had never happened before. At . nightfall Mnarra halted, gathered herself and generated her new cable of root strands. The strands separated and reached to the proper level. Then she began spinning out fresh leaf clusters. She could tell they did not rise as they should have. She could tell they were in some way blocked. And although there should have been washes of moonlight traveling down the root strands to her, there were none. None at all. It had never happened before. She settled, troubled, and tried to follow the night pattern she had established over the centuries. But the dreamlike electrochemical conjugations did not soothe her, did not lull her. Something was wrong above, gravely so. At last she achieved a state IF of semiconsciousness. She rested. She realized with fearful suddenness that the soil around her was almost noonwarm. Quickly she shuddered to full consciousness and stretched, spreading herself in a thin layer. It was true. The sun had long risen. But her leaves had sent her no message of dawning light. She had created no flowers in celebration. It had never happened before. She moved up through the soil until she hovered in the upper inch of topsoil. She could feel the stems of her own leaf clusters. They were not as they should have been. They were pushed downward through the soil, jammed inches deeper than they should have been. And they were flaccid. She didn't dare enter the air above to probe for causes. It would be out of order. Instead she moved deep again, gathered herself in a globular formation and thought. The solar energy the leaf clusters should have been dispatching to her was not sorely missed. Not today. There were elements of her plasma that could be converted back to energy without particular difficulty. But she was not a being of boundless matter. There were limits. She could only move ahead and hope that tomorrow's stand of foliage would not be impeded. She would not move far, first because half the day was already gone, second because she did not care to expend energy extravagantly. She would move ahead a short distance and then she would rest. Then she would create new root strands, new leaves. And she did. And it did not work. Nor did it work the day after. Finally she knew she would have to take a radical step. She would have to deviate. She would have to abandon her established meridian and set an alien course. It was spring, but Mnarra would travel for one day, two if necessary, west. Because she was discovering something she had never suspected. The leaf clusters had given her more than energy. They had provided her stimulation that was essential to wellbeing, to her will to live. She knew something now that no being of her race had ever known before. it took a while, but   there she blows," DiChiara said triumphantly the evening the leaf clusters finished their precipitant growth at the edge of New Powell's communal lawn. Brennan nodded. His strategy had worked, though he had suffered qualms. He studied the strange plants at his feet. This patch was smaller than any he had seen on the plain. But the foliage appeared healthy. He glanced around at the gathered members of the community. There was no mistaking their avid interest. "Now, where does it bloom?" "No idea," Brennan admitted. "Maybe someone will stay the night to keep watch." "Ha! I know thirty-two of us who plan to stay the night." "Well, happy flower-watch. I intend to hit the bunk. Tomorrow we have to think plant again," "We do?" DiChiara was surprised. "We do. It traveled almost due west today," Brennan pointed out. "If it heads north. again tomorrow, we can let it go. But if it heads west, it's going to surface in the fields." "Uh, oh." DiChiara glanced toward the fields. "But it couldn't do much damage to the corn or wheat, Bren. I mean, this patch isn't more than twelve feet in diameter." "The patches on the plain were more like twenty-five feet in diameter. Could be it will lay on extra area tomorrow and next day to compensate for the past few days." "Oh? You're buying Schroeder's theory about the lateralgrowing root twenty feet down?" Brennan shook his head. "I haven't heard a theory yet I can subscribe to. It just strikes me this species shows interesting adaptive qualities. Maybe part of the adaption to the unusual conditions we've presented is to leash its growth for a few days -- and then really to spread wide." "Um. So what do we do if it tries to take over the wheat?" Brennan shook his head wearily. "I don't know. I'm going to sleep on the problem." He did sleep on it. But he was awake soon after dawn, his curiosity tickling. He reached the plant site a quarter hour later. He reached the, plant site a half hour late. Vincinzi's voice was hushed. "It bloomed just at sunrise, Bren. It was the most moving experience I've ever had. The blossoms appeared from the stalks and unfolded just as the sun came over the hill. It was like a salute. A salute to dawn." Brennan looked around the circle of faces. Vincinzi wasn't the only one who had been stricken with awe. His people -- there were more than thirty-two of them -- sat and stood, attention fixed almost reverently, faces dazed. The petIF als of the flowers spiraled scarlet and graceful from deep golden centers. Dew stood limpid on dark leaves. "Maybe I'll get to see it tomorrow," Brennan said. Ill Mlondas reached the appointed area at the appointed time. He flowed into position smoothly. He waited. He waited through the long day, sunning himself in the topsoil. Mnarra did not come. Sometimes it happened. There was a slight discrepancy in their rates of travel. One arrived before the other. Mlondas waited another day, his leaf clusters turned hungrily to the sun. He gorged himself. He expanded his matter. Then Mlondas waited another day. The interval between their arrivals had never before stretched to this length. It had never happened. On the fourth day, Mlondas did something he had never done before. He moved south of the spring mating area. Mnarra had been delayed. He must reach her, because soon he must begin his summer journey north. His arrival at the autumn mating area must coincide with Mrruka's. He moved quickly, taking no time to sun himself in the upper layers. His waxen white flowers wilted behind. X ing." Brennan looked up from his papers, startled. Schroeder stood in the open door, his face indignant. "It's coming down from the north, a white one." Brennan stared at his chief agtech. Slowly he stood. "Where is it?" "It's four miles out. Swen and Tilla were hiking up to look at the crater area. Swen had the pedometer. This one's traveling fast, Bren. Faster than the other one ever traveled. The wilting patch is almost four miles north of the fresh patch." "And the third patch?" "They didn't find it. They ran into the crater area first." Brennan made a swift decision. "I'd better take the scooter out. Want to come?" Schroeder did. Lofting into the late afternoon, they soon confirmed Swen's report. The first patch, leaves and white flowers fresh, lay four miles north of New Powell. The second patch, wilting, lay four niiles north of the first. And the third, withered and brown, lay near the center of the crater area. It was difficult to distinguish from the surrounding vegetation, which was now just as brown, just as withered. "The damn thing's fast, whatever it is." Brennan nodded. "It's so fast it's going, to come up inside the pasture area in just a couple of hours, Guy." Quickly he turned the hoverscooter and headed south to New Powell. Luckily the pasture cow shed had not yet been reassembled. "We've got to get a crew out to the north pasture fast." They had their crew on duty within the hour. The new plant arrived just after dusk, poking its miltiple green heads aggressively through the'soil. Moving quickly they smothered it, fenced it. Then they stood around it. "Any news about the other one?" Schroeder demanded. Masters had just arrived from New Powell. "It surfaced half a mile up the lawn from its last position." "In the clear?" Brennan asked. Night before last the plant had attempted to emerge beneath the floor of one of the storage domes. The result had been a dome encircled by a foot-deep flower bed. The next evening foliage had failed to appear anywhere within or around New Powell. "Yep. It's smack in the middle of the cottage area lawn. It's small again. About fifteen feet diameter." Brennan nodded, then returned his attention to the crew. "I want you to stay on duty here through the night. Take turns walking the entire pasture with handlamps. This stand doesn't behave quite like the other one. There's always the chance it might surface again before morning." He and Schroeder returned to New Powell together to appraise the other patch of vegetation. "At least this business keeps minds off what's going on out there," Schroeder said sotto voce, motioning behind. Brennan refrained from glancing in the direction of the nightdarkened plain. A week ago the vegetation there had been dying. Now it was dead. His conviction that the land would cover again by late summer wavered painfully. "We're going to have a mud bath if that stuff doesn't grow back before the rains," Schroeder continued in a low voice. "I took units in erosion control. But there's oing to be no controlling this place. Not even our own hillsides and pastures, if the rest of the place turns to slop." "I know," Brennan said without expression. "There's nothing we can do but wait." "And hope?" Schroeder was glum. "You sitting flower-watch tonight?" "I think I may," Brennan said. Discouragement weighed heavily upon him. Their own fields # . IF thrived, but tlje rest of the world seemed to be dying. Irrationally, he couldn't helpv feeling responsible for the death that lay across the land. Mlondas reacted with swift indignation when his leaf clusters were flattened as he unfurled them tjirough the soil. He had traveled for days south from the appointed area and he did not intend to be frustrated. Not in any way. His days of waiting and engorging had provided him with extra matter. There was no point in conserving it, in waiting here where he was thwarted. He moved forward, breaking connection with the leaves that had been maltreated. He moved quickly, spreading himself thin, riding the top layers of soil, then dodging deep. Searching. It was hours before he found the first clue that Mnarra had been near. Her charge still clung to the soil. He decided quickly. He had never deviated before. There had never been necessity, any more than there had ever been necessity to venture south of the mating area. This time was different. He followed Mnarra's trail. T he inhabitants of New Powell stood around the giant patch of foliage in awe. It flowed across the entire broad lawn north of the dorm area, rustling in the evening breeze. Brennan, DiChiara, Schroeder and Vincinzi circled the patch. "It's at least twice as big as any of the earlier patches," Schroeder grumbled when they had measured off the circumference. "And look, it's several hands taller than before." Brennan looked. Nodded. He could only agree. This new patch lay a bare half mile north of the spot where the red blossoms had greeted the sun that morning, more than three miles from the pasture where they had smothered the other patch of foliage the previous evening. "Bren, do you think the patches met and combined?" Vincinzi suggested. "That would account for the increased area." "I don't know." Brennan glanced around. "But I guess everyone in New Powell is pulling fiowerwatch tonight." He had spread his own blanket on the grass last night for the first time. He had slept the night fitfully, waking frequently to be sure the blossoms had not emerged without him. Then the sky grayed with approaching dawn and he sat up. Dozens of faces glistened silently in the bare light. "Don't miss it, Bren," Vincinzi said softly when he turned his head to check the condition of the eastern sky. He didn't miss it. First he caught the scarlet rim of the sun above the hill. Then he turned his head to see the scarlet flowers rising majestically from their leafy thrones. They slid slowly up into the crisp morning air and immediately unfurled, tall and proud. It was a ceremonial salute. He felt it. A salute to the day. Awe moved him, crowding away doubt and worry. It was many minutes before he took his eyes from the scarlet flowers, before he moved. Toward this moment, he felt, his life had been directed. For this brief glimpse of the majesty of creation, of the unity of nature he had endured the empty years, the painful and anxious years. "What do you think about itiaintaining a patrol in the pasture tonight?" DiChiara asked. "Tonight?" Brennan considered, reluctantly, wanting merely to spread his blanket and sit. "I suppose we should, just jn case. You've been here for sunrise several times. Mind handling the patrol yourself?" "I'll take it if there isn't anyone else." "Maybe you can talk Harder into handling it." Brennan shrugged the matter off. "Staying, Vin?" She nodded. "I'm eager to see if the two patches have combined.  I've promised myself I'll get back to .my own bunk after one more evening, though." The early evening hours werepassed convivially. Conversational groups formed, mingled, reformed. Refreshments were passed. Songs were sung, songs that had survived despite the long asphalt-black years of CityAmerica. In the early morning hours ' the settlers stretched out on their blankets or retired to nearby dorms. The lawn became quiet. Voices were low, conversation fragmentary. Brennan lay on his back a bare yard from the perimeter of the foliage. "We should do this more often." Vincinzi rollecTto her stomach. "Sit up with a flower bed?" "No, have spontaneous gatherings. Out in the open.-No plans, no formal arrangements. Just everyone together for. the evening." Vincinzi smiled. "That would be fun. I don't think we've thrown off enough of our CityAmerica social habits." "We've been here less than a year." Some of the settlers had opened up easily, quickly discarding the depersonalized facades imperative for survival in the population crush of urban life. Others -- including Brennan -- had been slower to emerge. "You know, I signed on the planet party list because I wanted to see IF the stars. And there tliey are." His eyes moved across the diamond-lit blackness. Vincinzi laughed. "I think they've been up there every night since we landed." "Well, this is the first time -- last night and tonight -- that I've actually come out from under the roof long enough to enjoy them." Much of his busyness, he suspected, had been designed to cushion him from the shock of finding his total circumstance, his entire lifelong frame of reference, suddenly and totally changed, permanently changed. Soon they dozed. Then the eastern sky was gray, and the inhabitants of New Powell woke. Brennan sat, rocked Vincinzi's shoulder. "Time." Vincinzi sat, looked around. "Everyone's here." "Not quite." Brennan surveyed the gathering. Most sat farther back. Behind them others stood in their nightwear. Near the dorms, dozens more huddled in the half-light. "Want to move back? We could probably see better." "You?" Brennan shrugged. "I'm happy here." "AH right, I'll take the close view. But I reserve the right to move later." Her hand crept forward. Into his. His shoulder moved. Against hers. The sun rose. Vincinzi's hand tightened on Brennan's. "They've mingled." The flowers rose slowly, proudly, petals streaked, scarlet on white, white on scarlet. They stood in silent homage to the sun. From the settlers, a communal gasp of awe. Brennan's heart squeezed. The moment was again, the moment his days had been directed toward. The moment of unity, sun a scarlet circlet at hilltop, blossoms standing tall --  -- and earth blooming before him. Earth blooming up in a great dark fountain from the center of the flowers. Blooming up in an explosive fountain, a fountain that first knocked Brennan back and then carried him with it. He heard a cry. Whether it was his own or Vineinzi's, he never knew. They were one with each other, with the bright flowers, with the soil, in their last moment. It was many days before the explosion-scattered fragments of Mnarra's unexpended plasma tunneled through rock, soil and water to reunite in the limestone pocket many miles south of the new crater. Then Mnarra was whole again, the spring seeding accomplished, the ancient ritual observed. The young she had created in union with Mlondas grew green and thick on the land to a radius of hundreds of miles. They proliferated, their reaching roots loosening the soil. It had not mattered, then, that this year there had been disturbances and deviations. Even on the night before the formal celebration of the mating, before the explosive dawn distribution of their seed to the winds above, she had felt disturbance overhead, had felt the soil jarred and compacted. Perhaps it would never happen again. But she could not pause now. Far and far to the south, Mtunnas had surely completed his spring seeding with Mpurta. Now he would be traveling north, traveling to the mating area where he and Mnarra would meet at the end of autumn to seed that half of her designated lands. Mnarra had a responsibility. If she failed to meet Mtunas, if they failed to mate and seed, the land would lie exposed to wind and rain. Quickly Mnarra extruded a cable of root strands. They separated. She spun out large, hungry green leaves. They fed her. She moved south. DiChiara stood in the headi man's office, weary, eyes dark- rimmed. He stared at the sketch Brennan had made of the deadly ! flower's course through the vil- lage. His own blood-red X marked the spot of the disaster -- twenty of their people killed outright,j Headman Brennan and Agtech . Vincinzi among them; dozens in-jured, some critically; two dorms badly damaged. DiChiara had seen it from the . pasture, the dawn blooming of the strange flowers, the subsequent blossoming of the land. He had heard the thunderous report, the cries. But he hadn't believed itv not for hours. Sometimes he stilt didn't believe it. He kept Brennan's sketch tacked near the secretary to hold the reality before him. Schrgeder appeared at the office door, face heavy. "No sign. I sent Swen fifteen miles north. this morning. Harder fifteen miles south this afternoon. I don't think we're going to catch those flowers, Dick. Not now." DiChiara's fist hit the secretary top in frustration. "You sent the boys in search pattern?" "As usual." DiChiara sat, his eyes bleak. He had heard dozens of theories concerning that explosion. But DiChiara wasn't interested in theories. "Any reshow of the other species in the pasture?" IF "No." Four days after the explosion the second crisis had descended. Thousands of native seedlings had suddenly sprouted, tender and green, growing fast -- growing everywhere, in the lawns, in the fields, in the pasture. The settlers lost half their dairy herd to the poisonous seedlings before their numbed minds grasped the , nature of the crisis. "I think we have them eliminated, Dick. Parnell came up with an interesting theory -- " DiGhiara shoot his head. "No. I want facts, Guy. Somehowthat vegetation reseeded right under our eyes. It must have happened before the plants on the plain withered. Now, instead of our people sitting on the lawn theorizing, I want observers on the plain. Every day, Guy. I want detailed day to day observations on the life cycle of the native vegetation. Next year I want to know in advance when you expect that ground cover to regenerate so I can have crews waiting in the pasture. I don't want to lose cattle again, Guy." Schroeder nodded: "I see your point. You want me to continue the search for the flowers too?" DiChiara considered. "No. I'll buy your conclusion that they've fled the scene. But they'll be back, Guy, They'll be heading for the crater area again come next spring -- that much I'll bet on. And by early spring we're going to have crews watching for them." The colonists would be ready for the treacherous flowers next time. When the foliage appeared, they would dig it out burn it out, smother it out, exterminate it. There were going to be no more explosions, not within New Powell, not near New Powell -- not unless the settlers made the explosions themselves, bombing the plants out of existence. But DiChiara didn't have to elaborate upon his plans. Schroeder understood. All New Powell understood. When next the scarlet and white flowers came striding across the plain they would die. # Magazine Retailers and IF avaUabla to all rataHars. Full datails on procaduras and raquiramants for propar display submission of samiannual talas affidavits, can ba obtainad by writing: Seiect Mmgmxines, Inc. # PmrkAvnnuc South Now York. N:Y. # Knowledge is power and the Bzrahbas knew all -- until they met the unknowable! of the conference room like a man stunned. He gripped his portfolio in both hands. A thing as big and frightening as this must not be let get away, get told around. Someone edged over beside him. Someone else coming out. Kurt Richler. "What do you think?" Kurt asked. "I think we've got trouble," Darrah said. "Ach," Richler said, nodding. "Trouble." He wandered away. A goodly crowd was already waiting at the elevators. Subdued, all talked in low tones. Some of them just stood, looking blankly at blank walls. A car took eight or ten into its mouth and swallowed them whole as Darrah approached. He leaned against the wall, staying apart from the rest of the people. He got out his tobacco pouch and began stuffing his pipe. Quite a scene it had been. Old Sami up there on the platform like some college professor. Old Sami -- Sami Berkan, Secretary General of the. United Nations -- but for once a Sami Berkan who acted more like a freshman who hadn't studied, now called on to recite. "I want ideas, gentlemen," he had said. "No matter how absurd, I want them. The demand these creatures have made is -- I would say -- preposterous. But I must also say that they have made it and we must accept that they have power to force compliance to anything they demand. We are helpless, gentlemen. Helpless." Then he played the tape. tt'OU shall make note I have X taken effort your language to learn," the Bzrabba said. It had a wheezing, raspy voice. "We wish to be cause of as little inconvenience as possible." Berkan was still trying to make his stomach stay where it belonged. He had been briefed, of course. He had been shown dozens of pictures. He had been tipped off about the smell. (Like rotting wood and dung in an abattoir.) All the same, meeting face to face (more or less) and nose to nose (but where were its olfactory organs placed? Did it have olfactory organs?) took some getting used to.  mil feel all right in a minute, he  told himself. Or two minutes. Five? He glanced out into the heavy gray haze that hung above the East' River. On second thought, it would be best not to open the window. He wanted badly to close his eyes -- shut out at least the sight of the creature in front of his desk. He had been warned, though -- as if he needed warning -- that he must do nothing that might offend. All the available evidence indicated that the civilization of the Bzrabba (as they called themselves) was superior to human civilization in about the same proportion as human civilization was superior to that of termites. "One of our languages -- yes," the Secretary General said. "We have many. My own native language is Turkish, but -- yes -- I am fluent in this one." "Do you humans possess informational speech from the egg?" IF the alien wondered. One of its arms -- one of the pair that lacked a grasping appendage -- made a limp gesture. "Neglect that. It is mere intellectual curiosity. We have no time for that. It might be interesting to kqow, but -- " The arm's tip cracked like a whip. "We wish to be cause of not more inconvenience than we must," it said again. "We have come only for that which is ours." If a lobster and a cuttlefish could be mated, something like this creature from the stars might have been the result. Erect, it stood eight feet tall, not counting the four stubby, down-covered, many-branched antlers on top. Its upper torso was a medley of cruves that made Berkan think of free-form sculpture, though in a general way it could be said to resemble the hard parts of a squid's body. In color it was a blotched montage of purple and green. It walked (though that was not exactly the word) on what would have been a lobster's pincers if a lobster could stand on its head and if its pincers were modified beyond recognition. It wore a covering over its midsection that could have been leather and could have been taken for a breastplate, though Berkan had been given to understand that was probably not its function. None of the Bzrabba had been seen without such covering and the most reasonable explanation was that they were worn for essentially the same reason Tarzan wore a loincloth when he lived with the apes -- just because one associated with another species one didn't go around showing off what shouldn't be shown. (Since mouth, reproductive organs or excretory organs had not yet been identified there was consider"able debate over exactly what was concealed and, of course, it would be poor diplomacy to inquire. Ask a Scotsman what he wore under his kilt?) But the communication receptors -- sight and sound -- had been at least located. Their locus was also the approximate source of that ghastly voice. The creature's face, therefore, was down there under the arch of its legs. It was going to take some getting used to. Berkan moved from his desk to the settee. "I would invite you to sit down," he said. "I must apologize that we are not well equipped to accommodate -- we did not expect -- I can only suggest you adopt the stance that is most restful to you. I have no wish to be formal. This is our first meeting. I would like it to be as friendly as possible." Unobtrusively -- he hoped -- Berkan reached over to adjust the air-conditioner. Perhaps its filters would do something to moderate that stench. "I offer gratitude," the creature said. "Your gravity -- " It flopped on its back, the end containing its face pointed toward Berkan. It was something of an improvement, but Berkan still had the feeling he was talking to the creature's reproductive organs. He would just have to shut that idea out of his mind. "I should make a point of information clear to you," Berkan said. "Perhaps it has been done, but I see no harm in being positive you've understood it." "What is told three times is true," the creature said. Berkan took it to signify agreement. "The point is this," Berkan said. "It is true I am Secretary General of the United Nations, and someone not familiar with the true situation -- such as yourself -- might interpret this to mean I am the person most nearly in power over all the people in the world. ' However, the situation is not that simple. ,Our people are divided into many groups and the men who control each of those individual groups hold far more power than #, while I myself have only the most tenuous influence over what they do. Therefore I am not in a position to make agreements with you -- your civilization. I can only serve as an intermediary." "That will satisfy," the Bzrabba said equably. Its feet were still planted squarely on the carpet, legs elbowed up grasshopper style, as if it were going to do pushups with them. "I myself am not exactly voice-bearer of all the Bzrabba. This person has been led to understand you humans speak of myself to be a thing called ambassador. That is not an accurate description of the true facts. Most nearly in your language, myself should have the appellation of Agent of the Consortium." For practical purposes, Berkan supposed, it was a distinction without a difference. This particular member of the Bzrabba landing party (as identified by the decorations on its breastplate, but did the same one always wear the same breastplate?) had shown itself to be their spokesman. If it were hot an ambassarole of one. "It is possible my understanding of the language is not perfect," the Bzrabba said. "My grasp would be an ambassador is a person who represents a thing called government to another thing also called government, the two things being same, only separate. Our civilization do not have this thing called government." "Then how do you -- " Berkan stopped. It would be interesting to learn the political structure of their civilization, but there would be time for that later. Just now other matters were more important. The whole question of IF relationships with the Bzrabba would have to be settled. A hanging over the world ever since the Bzrabba ship appeared in orbit around the Earth-moon system. (It was an orbit that sent astronomers scrambling to derive new solutions to the famous three-body problem, whatever that was.) The ship was # miles long, # Vi miles wide in its major axis, not counting the five shark's fin projections from its bellied midsection. Betraying no detectable propulsion system, the ground party's dome-shaped landing craft came down gently as a drifting balloon. On entering the atmosphere, which it did at meteoric speed, the hull displayed not the slightest temperature rise from friction with the air. When the craft touched down in front of the terminal building at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago its weight punched through the pavement. It still stood there, many miles high. Aircraft had to divert to other fields. "I hope that our conversation can at least form the basis for mutual understanding," Berkan said...The air-conditioner wasn't doing a bit of good. "Yes," said the Bzrabba. "That is our hope also. We desire to cause as small inconvenience as possible." A civilization that could build a ship as gigantic as theirs -- propelled by a system men could not imagine -- could crush humanity like a beetle. Berkan was thankful their attitude was peaceful. Through his mind flashed the endless lists of possible motives and submotives the think-tank scenario builders had been cranking out -- with all the frantic haste of a berserk computation machine -- ever since the Bzrabba had come. Some of the ideas had been "I do not know what our civilization can possibly . offer yours," Berkan said. "But -- " He gave an inquiring, expectant glance. "Perhaps I make myself better understood by telling you of many things," the Bzrabba said. "It shall be permitted?" "Certainly." Berkan settled himself to listen. Inevitably a visitor from the stars would have far more to tell Earth than Earth .could tell in return. An intellect that could master a totally strange tongue in a mere six weeks -- what wonders could it not relate? "It is to begin," the Bzrabba said. "You must be told that the Bzrabba have existed a very great length of time. Since before the time of many stars that now you see. Truth? Boasting? Did it make a difference? Berkan nodded but reserved judgment. "Our worlds -- our civilization has such age that no meaning be carried in the mention of where the Bzrabba had origin. Our worlds, you could say, are primordial, having taken composition out of matter clouds in an eternity when in all the cosmos were only smallportions of any but the least complex configurations of matter. The equivalent concept in your science would be elements, though such rudimentary procedures for distinguishing one from another ignore almost all the finer details. Only scant abundances of matter more complex than approximately the number twenty in your nomenclature -- called by you calcium -- can be found in our worlds. You will notice that I have taken effort to familiarize this person with the state of your scientific knowledge. It is most interesting -- primitive, but possessed of striking instances of true insight. Unfortunate that one cannot expend more time to absorb such pleasures." "Pm flattered," Berkan said. He wasn't sure that he was, but it seemed a polite thing to say. "We are all flattered." Again that whipcrack gesture with one of the pincerless arms. "Though scarcity of them prevail, there does exist in our technology myriad aspects to which more elaborate matter structures are useful. On these, it is a consequence, we place high value." B erkan crossed his legs. He was beginning to understand. ' "You want to establish a trading relationship?" In all the thinktank scenarios, that possibility had stood high on the list of probable developments. "Please to allow the making of complete understanding in our purpose," the Bzrabba said. "It has been our perception that not all humans have full education in the scientific information other humans hold -- a very strange circumstance that this person is bemused by. So you may not know that the more elaborate matter structures have their creation at the innermost part of large stars -- larger, I would say, than the star around which this world has orbit. That one is too small and constructs only the number two element of your nomenclature, which you call helium, from the number one, named hydrogen." "I remembr being told," Berkan said. "It is the same process as with our hydrogen bombs. Or -- " He cocked his head, trying to remember. It was one of those distinctions scientists were always making -- distinctions he couldn't understand. "Sometimes they tell me it is, sometimes not." "We have found," the Bzrabba went on, "it is most practical to secure the more complex conIF figurations of matter in quantities needed by use of a technique that removes from suitable stars the outer portions whose weight, by gravitational power, have forced matter construction into more elaborate forms. Then it is necessary, of course, to leave the remaining part -- which is almost the pure material desired -- to dissipate in radiation the superfluous energy heat possessed in it. Your language would say, 'to cool,' but such terminology is sadly inexact. After a space of time the process arrives at completeness and the material is ripened for our usage." "Entire stars?" Berkan wondered. His grasp of astronomy was minimal in spite of his briefing, but still the casual assertion of such abilities -- even for the Bzrabba -- was hard to accept. "It is no difficulty to be done," The Bzrabba said. "Merely to adjust the dispositions of a two-star system in such fashion that a lesser star shall draw, by gravitation, from the surface of the larger streams of matter which are thrown in winding outward spiral into space surrounding it. Such events are now in process elsewhere and are noticed by those of you humans that have interest in such matters, who say 'Beta Lyrae type' and believe their selves to understand the thing proceeding." "I am -- " Berkan fumbled for adequate words. He felt as if a wind were blowing through him -- as if the floor under his feet were only empty space and distant stars. "Please to be reminded," said the Bzrabba, "our civilization is advanced in technology beyond the comprehension of your most all-knowing minds. Our worlds scatter through all this galaxy and the globular clusters that surround. Some portion of us have journeyed farther. We are vast." Berkan could only nod. The Bzrabba might only be boasting but -- "Go on. I'm not sure what this has to do with us, but -- " He waited. "We are a patient people," the Bzrabba said. "Foresighted. Like your farmers who plant seeds that in a future season they might harvest -- similarly do the Bzrabba prepare the cores of stars for later gathering. It happens, though, that often much else has taken place in the expanse of time while our core is becoming ready for usage. Frequently the matter removed from the star has condensed into planets around the other star -- the star that was employed to do the removing. The core itself, in the course of discharging its superfluous energy heat, has undergone minor changes -- has developed a husk of waste materials outside it as a shell, a slag that has risen outward to cover its surface. It isTrue, that husk-shell often does include much matter of desirable configuration, but in such complicated mixture and such small abundance that to separate the wanted from the not-wanted would be not efficient. It becomes necessary therefore to remove that husk and discard. We have come to do that now." Berkan frowned. "I think I do not understand." "But it should be obvious," the Bzrabba said. "As I have said, we do not wish to cause more inconvenience than is necessary, nor have we wapt for anything not ours. But our civilization has great need and places great value on the matter structure number twenty-six in your nomenclature, which you call iron. That substance exists in good quality as the inner parts of this, which you mistakenly describe to be, your world. It is not yours, but ours. It has discharged sufficiently now and we have come to gather it. I am very sorry, but we must request you humans please to get off. got his pipe going. For all his shock. Old Sami was still a seasoned diplomat. Driven numb, back to the wall, his final words on the tape had been calm. "I thank you for your frankness," he had said. "As I have told you I am not in a position to reply at this time. I trust it will be acceptable to defer a response while I confer with my staff and advisors and consult with various heads of state." An Earth-born diplomat would have known he was being put off. Maybe the Bzrabba knew it, too, but it did not demur. It had not, it said, expected instant com-, pliance. Adequate time would be allowed. In the conference room Berkan had admitted not knowing what the Bzrabba meant by adequate time -- nor had he thought it wise to ask. He had won a little time, but that was all. "We need ideas, gentlemen," he had said again and waited. No one had said a word. II B ack m his office Darrah slouched behind his desk. His pipe had gone out. After a while he lit it again. He opened his portfolio and spilled the briefing papers in front of him. Each report had a folder of its own. He flipped through them, made sure they were all there. They summarized -- so he was told -- everything known about the aliens. Everything. He leaned back and drew on his pipe. After a while he picked up the phone, dialed home. Kris answered. "Kris?" She knew his voice. "Mike? Something the matter?" "I'll be working late tonight," he IF said. "Won't be home -- not till very late." "But you never work late." True enough, he never had. "Tonight I'm working late. Something's come up. No, I can't talk about it." After he had hung up he looked at the phone for a while. He didn't know if she really believed, but she would have read the papers and would know the Bzrabba had talked with Sami. If she couldn't figure out why such news meant that an economist working on international trade problems had to work late -- well, it was too bad. He stared through his window. The skyline lifted out of afternoon shadows, all angular shapes like a hodgepodge of battlements. After a while he picked up the phone again. He got Jorge Kipnis. "Jorge, let me talk to his nibs." "He's not -- " "Jorge, I was at that meeting and you were there, too. Let me talk to him." Jorge made no argument. After a moment's wait Darrah was talking to Berkan "I'd like to hear that tape again. Can you send someone down with a copy?" "Best not," Berkan said. "I took a chance letting so many hear it. Journalists would -- " "I've been thinking," Darrah said. "I'd like to hear it again. If it's as I remember, it's just possible I'll want to have a talk of my own with -- well, you say what he is. Superman?" "Not 'man,'" Berkan said. "On' the rest of it. I'm sorry to admit, you are probably correct. Why don't you come up and we'll hear the tape together? And then, perhaps, talk. Of you have anything at all to suggest I'll very much want to talk." Darrah could believe that. "Now?" "Now is the best time, is it not?" T he Secretary GeneraTtistened. Other men drifted in. They listened, too. They asked questions. They rubbed their jaws. "What do you think?" Berkan asked at last. Paul Shimer stubbed a cigarette. "I'd say it hangs on too many assumptions. Too many things we don't know." "That's why I want to talk to him," Darrah said. "I want to find out how close I'm guessing." "The chance that you're right all down the line is about one in a hundred," Shimer said. Reluctantly Darrah nodded. "Okay. But look," he said. "They're talking to us. If they thought we were nothing -- they wouldn't. They'd just start chopping and not pay us any more attention than you'd give the bugs under the bark of a tree. And that one on tape -- he kept saying that bit about not causing us any inconvenience -- " "Huh!" Colin Corcoran muttered with scornful irony. "Maybe they mean it," Darrah said. "Maybe they really do. And if that's so we should try to find out how much inconveneince they think is necessary." "We already know," Corcoran said flatly. "Tm not so sure," Darrah said. "We know one thing they want. It's a lot -- it's frightening -- but it does leave a lot of other aspects -- well, indefinite. If we take them at their word -- " Corcoran frowned. "You're really serious, aren't you?" "Aren't you?" Darrah asked. "Aren't we all?" Berkan tapped a pencil oh his desk. "I think," he said, "our chances are probably small. Nevertheless, we have a possibility here -- a small hope. It should be explored. Now -- " He leaned back, gazing at the far wall. "You're going to let him talk to that creature?" Shimer objected. Berkan raised an eyebrow. "He should be there. It is, after all, his thought and he will understand the ramifications more clearly than someone else. But -- yes, you are right. For the talking it is necessary to have a man who will say neither too much nor too little." He turned his chair and looked out into the late afternoon. The sky was full of a yellowish haze. He thumbed the intercom. "Helga? Find out if Walter Lewis is still in the building. If he is -- ask him to come up. If he's gone home or somewhere, locate him." To the men arranged before his desk he said, "Merely because a quest is doubtful is not a reason to reject it without trial." T he Bzrabba had been quartered in a Waldorf Towers suite. Darrah left the elevator a half step behind Walter Lewis. The weight of the tape recorder was almost pulling his arm from its socket. They turned down the hall. A squad of aides received them -- UN people assigned to serve as the Bzrabba's errand boys. They knew Walter Lewis by sight. Darrah and Lewis were ushered into the alien's presence with a minimum of bother. The room had been stripped of its usual furnishings, though a painting still hung on the wall and drapes still framed the window casements. The Bzrabba was leaning into what looked like a fishnet supported at an angle by a chrome-shiny cantilevered frame. A paperback in an advanced state of dismemberment lay on the floor between its feet. As Lewis and Darrah entered it carefully tore still another page from the tattered spine and held it up to its visual organ -- first one side; then the other -- and added it to a neat pile on its left. As its tricorn pincer reached for another page it deigned to notice them. The room IF was full of a stink like something dead in a swamp. "Quaint, the form of artistic effort in which you humans dabble," the Bzrabba said. It placed the remnant of Finnegans Wake on top of the loose pages and came erect. "May this one welcome offer into this, which temporarily be its place of occupation?" Lewis chattered something about how the Bzrabba surely didn't object if they made a tape of everything that was said. Darrah found an outlet that would take the machine's cord and diddled with the reels and switches. The aides hurried in with an armchair and a small divan, saw them placed to everyone's satisfaction and withdrew. The Bzrabba flopped on its back. Lewis waited until the door clicked shut, then nodded to Darrah. Darrah got the tape started and backed away from the machine. The stench was making him physically ill. If Lewis was affected he showed no sign of it. "We've come about the request you made to the Secretary General this morning," Lewis said. "Transfer of information has been done," said the Bzrabba. The words had an implacable flatness. "That's true," Lewis said. He shifted uneasily in the armchair and leaned forward, his hands laced together. "We feel, however, there are some considerations we should explore together. I'm sure you've no objection to our discussing the matter." "It is not to make refusal of communication," the Bzrabba said. "The fact has been said. Describe what more must be done." Lewis let his breath out slowly. His body relaxed like a balloon beginning to deflate. Darrah looked down at the tape machine. It was running just fine. "We believe conflicts can be averted by mutual understanding," Lewis said. He even sounded relaxed. "However, before we go on, we'd like to satisfy a point or two of curiousity. Do you mind?" "Objection be not given." In spite of the huskiness of its speech the complete indifference of the Bzrabba's attitude could not be mistaken. "It's simply this," Lewis said, keeping to a diffident manner. "What you want -- the only thing you want -- is the iron. Is that right?" "Statement does correctness have." Lewis was slow with the next question. "Our cosmologists think -- aren't there a lot of worlds with iron inside them? Ones you can take without bothering anybody?" The Bzrabba clacked its pincers. It was a sound like chopsticks being rattled. "Worlds having core of substance called by humans iron in natural course do not happen' it said. "Bother be to the Bzrabba that humans have discourtesy to occupy without permission or even to make presence known. Nevertheless, the Bzrabba choose to force no greater inconvenience than be not avoidable," Lewis betrayed his dismay only in a momentary glance in Darrah's direction. Darrah, under orders to say nothing, could only nod. Lewis went back to the job. "Tell us," he said. "We've inferred from things you've said that you've encountered life -- living things -- on many worlds. We've been wondering, though -- arguing, I should say -- whether you've found intelligent creatures before." "Not only worlds," the Bzrabba said. "The interrelated chemical processes in complexity -- called by you humans life -- exists many places, possessing of myriad forms. To the Bzrabba are location-places known to the number beyond enumeration. But of the ongoing multifarious process -- called by you life -- that which is possible to have description as creative intellect -- such have the Bzrabba made count only to the quantity of six, of which two still have existence. Humans now be with the numbers of seven and three." Darrah saw the diplomat's eyes twitch at the corners as if in pain. He waited, holding very still, "What has been the attitude of the Bzrabba toward them?" Lewis asked. "Bemusement," said the Bzrabba. All four pairs of pincer-tipped arms clasped hands across its body. Darrah thought of a grotesque Santa Claus holding its belly while it laughed. "In a universe old, a peculiar new item," it went on. "Inferior, but having possession of queer interest. A rare trifle. Deep has been regret in the Bzrabba to have witness borne at demise of the four -- to have to see the wilt of the two that yet are remnant." "Thank you," Lewis said, swallowing hard, "Our scholars will be very interested." He looked around. Darrah gave him a slow, grave nod. He might have hoped for better. But this would do. "Did these others have anything the Bzrabba wanted?" Lewis asked. "Did their presence obstruct the Bzrabba from anything?" The Bzrabba made a rude noise. "They did not dare," Lewis bent to open his briefcase. He took out his notebook. His face was a plain mask. His hand wasn't quite steady. "Quaint also, such an artifact, that storage of date and retrieval are done," the Bzrabba observed. "What we need is this," Lewis said, looking up from his notes. "The Secretary General anticipates considerable difficulty in convincing the leaders of some IF nations -- most, in fact -- of how seriously you mean your request. People in some parts of the world aren't too well informed about scientific concepts. It may be extremely hard to persuade them you mean what you say." "Persuasion shall be done," the Bzrabba said. Cold as a banker collecting the widow's mortgage. "The Secretary General," Lewis said, tapping his thumb on the notebook, "thinks it's possible they're more likely to be convinced if the Bzrabba would send emissaries to explain your position directly to Various government leaders in -- well, a number of countries. In some nations it might even be a good idea to speak directly to the people. We'd supply as much help with learning the languages as we're able, but in some cases that might not be much. Could we expect your cooperation?" The Bzrabba's pincers unclasped, one pair at a time, while it spoke. "If, by such course, activity be expedited, the Bzrabba shall enjoy the giving of assistance. We have intent, well declared, to be stimulant of not more inconvenience than be made imperative." "You've said that several times," Lewis said. He held to a casual, conversational tone. "Can we rely on it?" "Against that which to the number of three occasions be spoken no deviation from real fact does prevail," the Bzrabba said. "Fact exists. Fact is." Darrah frowned. He and Lewis would have to study hard and long to be sure what it had said just then. He became aware of Lewis looking at him, one brow raised. Yes, Darrah nodded. Time to close it down. Lewis rose to his feet. "I think that takes care of our immediate problem," he said. "We may have more questions later. But for now -- well, I do want to thank you "It be toward mutual purpose," said the Bzrabba. Darrah was ready when Lewis signaled to stop the recorder. He buttoned it up while Lewis kept the Bzrabba's attention with small talk. As they left the Bzrabba was dipping again into Finitegans Wake, remarking as it tore out another page that the glue humans used left a ragged edge. T hey went back and reported to Berkan and the dozen men waiting with Berkan. The Secretary General sat at the end of a table, so large there was space for a man on either side of him. They all listened to the tape and then they talked. They smoked until the air in the room was blue. They talked for a long time. Some while after midnight Darrah knocked out his pipe on the edge of an ashtray and began to fill it for the dozenth time. "I've based my proposal on two points," he said. "They're both conjectural, but I think one of them has now been borne out. It's true they're contemptuous of us and I'll have to admit that from their point of view we're somewhat below the status of an underdeveloped nation. In spite of that, they've elected to talk with us. I think that indicates their contempt is not absolute. For a guess. I'd say they think of us about the same way we think about whooping cranes. We arouse the conservationist in them. That's not much -- but it's something." He gave up fumbling with his pipe and laid it on the table. Hard enough keeping clear in his mind what he wanted to say. "Beyond that," he went on, "my ground isn't solid. But by obliging them to send representatives to every country in the world -- and I think . we should include every government and pseudogovernment and subgovernment, as many as we can think of -- we can maybe impress them with the level of resistance they'll have to contend with." Pierre Laffont made a flamboyant gesture. "Pardon. Do you honestly think they are not able?" Darrah shrugged. "No," he admitted. "I'd have to say they probably can. I'm hoping that once they understand the situation they won't want to." "And do you believe that will happen?" Laffont asked. Darrah slouched farther down in his chair. "I donT think anything else will help, either. The thing is, we don't have much to lose." Carefully, Berkan laid his pencil on the table. "More to the point, gentlemen -- if we do nothing we shall certainly have lost." the morning when Darrah let himself into the apartment. He tried to be quiet, but Kris awoke anyway. "Mike? What time is it?" "Late," he said. "Didn't mean to wake you." "What's that funny smell?" The Bzrabba's odor had permeated his clothes. "Guess this suit will have to go to the cleaners," he said. Kris stretched sleepily. "What were you doing all this time?" He didn't answer right away. He didn't feel much like talking. "All right. Don't answer." She sounded hurt. She turned over, face away from him. He sat down to take off his shoes. "Kris?" "Uhh?" "Would you believe if I told you I was trying to save the world?" "Oh?" Too sleepy to be really interested. "How?" "Making it cost too much." Silence. He thought she'd gone back to sleep. "Well? Did you?" IF He got his other shoe off, set it down quietly. "I don't know. We'll just have to see how It goes." Ill H e found himself transferred to the diplomatic section. He felt awkward there, among the carefully speaking, baby-step-progress people, but that was where Old Sami wanted him and it was a vantage point from which he could watch what happened. Besides, there were more plans to build. Language instruction had not been a serious problem. The UN's staff included people skilled in virtually all Earth's major tongues. File searches turned up people who could teach most of the others. That still left the several hundred dialects and tribal languages found in the forests and... deserts of the southern continents, Asia and the Australasian islands. For most of those, the fall back on their capacity to absorb a strange language quickly from scratch. The emissaries went out. Several thousand of them. Reports trickled back from such hinterlands as Nepal and the Faroe Islands and disturbing rumors about the Bzrabba's intentions were heard from Yemen and the Malagasy Republic. The sophisticated press dismissed such tales as the kind of reaction to be expected of people only recently exposed to civilization of any kind and -- while the more sensational press made what they could of garbled dispatches -- not many people were persuaded that the Bzrabba were more than they seemed which was big and freaky. At his new desk, Darrah studied reports from a thousand agencies. His planning group met daily. The Bzrabba were spat on in Catania, mobbed in Singapore and charged with porcine ancestry in Baghdad. The Shah of Iran was seen to hold his nose in public. An emissary returned from the Sepik region of New Guinea still alive, but pincushioned by a half-hundred spear shafts. In Australia a band of aborigines bounced, boomerangs off one for half an hour, then disappeared into the outback. One was harpooned. Some Bzrabba didn't return. In Bogota there was uncertainty whether the shot that killed the emissary might have been meant, instead, for the President of Colombia, who had been standing beside it at the time. In Peking there was less doubt. A crowd tore one to scraps. From the African bush came the whisper that, roasted over a slow fire, Bzrabba was very tasty. UT they are behaving as ifnothing happened," Guido Falcone said, dropping the latest sheaf of reports on the desk. Darrah nodded. "Looks as if maybe that Rand study was right." Falcone started to speak, then frowned. "Which one was that?" "The one that says they may not think the way we do, may not value the same things -- may not even have the concept that they're individuals. There's some evidence for it." "Hah. Big help. So? What do we do now?" "Wait," Darrah said, containing his feelings and his fears behind a mask of imperturbability. "Play the game. Pretend we're fumbling for a way to give them everything they want, if they'll give us a few things. Some way that doesn't wipe us out. That, and keep moving up the price. There's got to be a limit somewhere." "And then?" Falcone asked. "What is to stop them from deciding we want too much? What is to stop them from scraping us off like vermin?" That had been a terror in Darrah's thoughts for some time. "I'm hoping they'll think it would be an inconvenience to us," he said. "I'm hoping they don't want to do that. Have you got a better idea?" but the time came. The.Bzrabba spokesman -- the one that wore the breastplate of Agent of the Consortium -- arrived at Berkan's anteroom. There had been no warning, but Darrah had been expecting the visit for a week. He plucked a folder from his security file and met Walter Lewis on the way up. It was only a couple of flights -- they took the stairs. A dozen men were scrambling into a room that adjoined Berkan's. "Luck, Mr. Darrah," one of them stage-whispered. Berkan was speaking as they walked in. The stench that met them was like being slapped with a week-old haddock. "I know that some of us have behaved badly," Old Sami said. "I should apologize for them. But you should understand they do not welcome the prospect you give them. Without a more effective persuasion than has been done, resistance must be expected." "Negligible is," the Bzrabba said. "All must vacate our property." "I have a question. May I?" Walter Lewis asked. He was still getting settled in a chair next to Berkan's desk. He unzipped his portfolio, but left it lying in his lap without taking anything out. "No objection be," said the Bzrabba. Darrah slipped into a chair off to the side. He wished he could do some of the talking himself, but Old Sami knew best. He gave Lewis a nod to proceed. "You realize. I'm sure, that asking us to evacuate our planet is going to cause more than a little inIF convenience," Lewis said quietly. The Bzrabba lay almost at his feet. "That much, necessary is," it replied. "We have done work for purpose of obtaining useful measure of that configuration of matter, called by you -- inspecifically -- iron. Of this world that part be property to us." "Until now, we've always thought this was our world," Lewis said. "In many things opinion of humans be a not equivalent to most rudimentary level of correctness," the Bzrabba said. "To claim this be your world, this one must announce a not true fact." Lewis appeared to ponder the response, then let it pass. "We have some considerations that need to be explored," he said. "Assuming for the moment we're much do you mean by necessary inconvenience?" "Explain, please," the Bzrabba said. Lewis drew some papers out of his portfolio. He didn't really need them, Darrah thought. It was all right, though. "I believe you're more or less familiar with our technological abilities," Lewis said. "What we're able to do and what we're not able to do. Am I cofrect?" "Not all abilities does this person know in absolute," the Bzrabba said. "In many realms of purpose, it is known. Not all." Lewis nodded. "Yes. Well, then. I'm sure you must be aware -- and this is a fact -- we don't have the capability of evacuating everybody. Altogether, we might be able to send perhaps two dozen people into space for a very limited time -- and not very far. That's as much as we can do." The Bzrbba's arms writhed like a tangle of snakes. "Does this person receive information that you make refusal to remove selves from our property?" Lewis' voice now became precise, the words clipped. "I'm not saying we refuse," he said. "Nor am I saying we shall. I'm telling you, though, the plain fact: we do not have the capability of doing what you ask." "This one must say again," it said, "this property be ours. Humans shall depart from it." Berkan's chair squeaked as he leaned forward. "Are you prepared to take measures if we do refuse?" he asked. "Mind you -- " he held up a hand -- "I am not saying we shall or that we shall not. I ask your position." "Should it be not-escapable -- the Bzrabba shall in deep reluctance use force necessary to ensure the removal be done." Implacable. "I see," Berkan said. Darrah caught the hint of a shudder in his voice. Lewis took it up again, briskly efficient. "All right, assuming very reluctant; but assuming otherwise -- could we hope the Bzrabba will give us the assistance we would need?" "To the purpose of removing humans?" the Bzrabba asked. "That in time after, the Bzrabba shall the iron substance capability to remove have? Without more hindrance from fact of their presence? By reason they be not?" "Uh, yes," Lewis said after a long, thoughtful pause. "Because without considerable help from you -- the Bzrabba -- our cooperation would simply not be possible. To be specific, we're not able to transport ourselves into space. Could we hope that the the transportation?" "We wish to be cause of not more inconvenience than be made imperative," the Bzrabba said for what must have been the thousandth time. "Should humans not create conveyance the Bzrabba must -- for alternative-supply." breath and resumed breathing. Lewis was looking his way. He nodded gravely. One for our side. Lewis went on as if the Bzrabba's response had meant nothing. "Where can we go?" he asked. "That be not a known place," the Bzrabba said. "Let me explain further," Lewis said. He hunched down, close to the creature's equivalent of a face. "There's not another habitable planet in the solar system. Not for us, especially not with our present level of technology. I'm told Mars might be just faintly possible if we had enough of the right kind of equipment, but we don't. And I'm afraid that even if we did, the planet wouldn't have the resources to support our whole population. So we've discussed this among ourselves and it's been suggested there might be planets around some of the nearby stars and that some of them might be suitable. If you could tell us where they are -- and something about them -- it would save a lot of difficulty." "Worlds in gravitational captivity of stars be more numerous than stars," the Bzrabba said. Lewis podded. "We've always suspected that." Darrah had to smile. When Lewis first heard the idea he had been incredulous. "What we still don't know but must surmise," Lewis went on, "is that only some of them -- probably only a few -- will be planets that are really suitable. In fact -- " he checked his notes -- "within certain limits we're rather diverse when it comes to habitat. Some of us might be comfortable on one world -- others might be more so on another. And with the present state of our science, we haven't a way of IF knowing where or which these are. So -- we don't have much choice -- we'll have to ask you for help in finding them." "That will enlarge the degree of less inconvenience?" the Bzrabba asked. "Very much so," Lewis said. "Perhaps I should remind you -- it's you who are asking us to move." A silence came, then, which grew colder as it lengthened. Lewis sat up straight, waiting with austere patience. Darrah began to fidget until Berkan fixed him with a frosted steel eye. Finally, the Bzrabba spoke. "Survey shall be needed," it said. "Data taking. Many things the Bzrabba know, but information of that category until now the Bzrabba did not have necessity to know. It shall require to be discovered." Lewis nodded. "We suspected that might be the case. Our question, though, is whether you'll do it." The Bzrabba struck a pincer against its breastplate, making a sound like a taut-skinned drum. "To make small the inconvenience to you humans, that activity shall undertaking have." Lewis looked to Darrah, who nodded gravely, without enthusiasm. It wasn't going exactly the way he'd hoped. It wasn't even go- ing the way he'd feared. He wasn't sure what to think. Lewis turned to the Bzrabba again. "We'll be very grateful," he said. No irony tinged his voice. "Now, one other consideration we ought to mention. We don't know if you've thought of this, but our scientists say it's very probable that any planet or -- for that matter -- any group of planets we might occupy mightbe similar to this one, but they still won't be as perfect an environment as the one we've got now. We're adapted to this one and -- " back to his notes again, quickly flipping the pages -- "even a subtle difference -- say, a few percentage points of solar radiation or something in the atmosphere -- might have serious consequences. Can ypu understand that?" "Nevertheless," said the Bzrabba. Lewis pursed his lips -- took a breath. "It's been suggested that some of the problems might be alleviated if our technological capability were raised and our scientific knowledge increased. Also -- you might consider this a separate point -- if we do find ourselves on a number of different worlds they probably wouldn't all be around the same star. It would be helpful -- minimize the inconvenience, you might say -- if we had some method of communication between them. Some mode of transportation, perhaps." "To achieve, you are more assistance requesting?" Inwardly Darrah winced. The creature had them figured out -- maybe it was far ahead of them. "Actually we'd much prefer to rely on ourselves," Lewis said. "What we'd suggest, if you'd be some assistance toward upgrading our technology, so we could cope with the problems ourselves. Then we wouldn't have to ask for help." The Bzrabba's handless arms twined around each other, then unwrapped. "Such action would some aspects simplify, nor would much difficulty cause. Information given does also in possession of those who give remain. Uncertainty stands only that you, who name selves human, be of limited capacity. Dubious would hope be that even rudiments of ours could humans mastery achieve." Lewis casually slipped his notes back inside his portfolio. "If you want our cooperation -- " he began. "No. Let me," Berkan said. He addressed the Bzrabba. "We have a saying," he said. "We say, you never know until you have made the attempt. I think that has some relevarjce to what you have said, don't you think?" "To experiment," the Bzrabba said. "That has been done." "BiU not with humans," Lewis said. "A consideration," the Bzrabba said. "With humans, not." "So?" Berkan asked. "At small effort and small risk involved to the Bzrabba -- " one of the handless arms writhed snakelike, cracked like a whip -- "you humans shall have warning, choice -- and consequence." "I think we shall elect the choice," Berkan said affably. "Yes. Definitely the choice." A gain they sat around a table. Again they talked far into the night. Every man and woman -- and there were more than twenty -- seemed to feel compelled to give hisher evaluation and opinion at tedious length, as if otherwise they couldn't justify their presence at what was certainly the most crucial conference in the history of homo sapiens. Darrah would have commented on that, except he had some thoughts of his own which -- he felt -- had to be brought out. "He didn't object enough," Darrah said. "Everything we asked for incredibly naive -- and I can't believe that -- or he's thinking something we simply have no way to guess at." "There is another possibility," Leon Vazquez said. Unwatched, his hand sketched perfect polygons on his doodle pad. "Perhaps the astrophysicists are correct -- the Bzrabba want the iron that bad." IF "Which leaves us where?" Lazio Wiesel asked. He was a fat, bald man. Without the mustache he would have looked like Churchhill. "Committed to a deal we can't go through with," Nicholas Pelikan said from across the table. "Are you certain?" Berkan said. They looked at him. "Of course we're certain," Pelikan said. "Speak only for yourself," Berkan said, but he said it softly and his nod was genial. He put his fingertips together. "Let us consider rationally, gentlemen. The Bzrabba would seem agreeable to provide virtually all things we might ne if we will only vacate our world. Admittedly the thought of leaving it seems at first unthinkable. But -- and here I borrow a fragment of Mr. Darrah's thinking, although even he might not acknowledge it, for I mean to turn it around. It's simply this -- everything has a value. A price." "That is not true," Jules de Bray's quick gesture spilled the ashtray beside his wrist. "That is simply not true." Berkan nodded wearily. "Nothing is absolutely true," he conceded. "Including what I have just said. But in the present case -- let us think. We are accustomed to our world and the thought of abandoning it seems unbearable. Yet, when we examine the question carefully, what do we find?" Tewfik Habib banged a fist on the table. Things rattled. "It is our world!" He looked like an eagle screaming in the wind. "That seems to be a point under dispute," Berkan said mildly. "Perhaps I should ask, what kind of world is it? If we are thoughtful and honest with ourselves we discover it to be one whose most valuable resources are being rapidly used up and whose air and land and waters have become increasingly contaminated by the wastes of our industry, our carelessness -- a world, in short, now under threat by a population growth that seems impossible to control. We arc offered an indefinite number of worlds, all of them habitable, with ample and intact resources. We are alo promised the technical knowledge to use those resources wisely and to not foul our nest. There is even a hope there will be power to do many things we arc not presently able to do -- things we consider not possible. Let us not be too hasty in rejecting such a proposition. Faults it may have, but virtues also." "How do we know they'll keep their promises?" Darrah didn't even see the man who asked. "Admittedly, that is a question," Berkan said. He glanc at his watch. "Equally, it is possible that everything the creature seems to promise is of no great value to them -- is perhaps the equivalent of the twenty-four dollars for Manhattan Island I have been told about. Or it is possible -- as Leon has said -- that these creatures need iron so desperately that, to them, it is truly worth the price." "Or it may be," Jiian de Castro suggested, "that they have not yet totaled the bill." "Many things we do not know," Berkan said. "We know only what What we must keep in mind are not the uncertainties -- but rather the simple fact that, having little to be hoped for, we actually are risking very little. I would suggest, gentlemen, rather than inventing new objections -- new things to fear -- we should put our minds to ways and methods to insure that further negotiations may be conducted to our advantage and that the best shall be made of this uncomfortable situation." He looked at his wrist again. "It is very late now. I would suggest that we go to our homes and sleep. And that we come to the problem with fresh minds in the morning." N ot until long after midnight did Darrah get home. As he groped for his shoelaces in the dark, Kris came drowsily awake. "That you, Mike?" Then: "You've got that stink again." "My suit," he said. "I'll take it to the cleaners tomorrow." "Incinerator," she said. "They never got it out of the other suit." It wasn't a thing to argue about. Not at this hour. "All right. The incinerator. In the morning." A silence. Then: "Mike?" "Hmm?" "This time, did you save the world?" He thought a while. The facts were one thing, the possibilities another. "No," he said at last, uncomfortably. "But there's a chance we'll get a good price. Might be very good, considering the goods are second-hand." # ( T really is strange," Berkan  shook his head and passed the report across his desk to Darrah. "I can only say, they want the iron very much." The Bzrabba had supervised the design and building of a data readout 'machine in Zurich. It was gigantic -- a mountain had to be hollowed out to contain it and a glacier was pressed into service to keep it cool. Most of its structure, the aliens explained, was needed to convert Bzrabba concepts into human frames of reference. It was, .they implied, disgustingly inelegant. At the last, the information cube was fixed in place. It was # inches on a side, dull red, and the data it contained was coded into the individual moleIF cules of its substfKX by isotopic variation. Some anonymous technician touched a key and the printout spat: E  me #... The Bzrabba said the cube included the whole summation of Bzrabba science. Maybe it did -- maybe it didn't. At that point it made little difference, for -- so far -- the Bzrabba had not yet repeated their request for the iron. There was still the remaining part of their bargain to fulfill. The last Bzrabba, Agent of the Consortium, had whisked back to Chicago. The landing craft lifted as if by its bootstraps, without noise or fuss or even a show of powerful energies being used. When worlds suitable for men were found or -- if necessary -- made habitable, they would return. For the iron. Darrah consigned a future suit to the incinerator. "I'll have to admit I don't understand them," he said. He dropped the report back on the desk. "If we'd asked them for different things -- They can't think what we asked for has much value. Of course, it's possible they think the iron's worth it all. I don't know. Maybe to them it actually is. They never did say what they use it for." "Does it make a difference?" Berkan asked. "Maybe it's us," Darrah went on, frowning at the new thought. "Maybe vere the thing that has value." "Us?" Berkan wondered. "How could that be?" "I wouldn't know," Darrah admitted. He shrugged "Whooping cranes? I've no idea in the world." N either man ever saw the Bzrabba again. The Secretary General lived to the age of four hundred eighty-two as a direct result of the advances in molecular biology made possible by the Bzrabba information cube. Darrah, having been younger at the time, lived to six hundred nineteen. Not for seven full centuries did the Bzrabba come back to claim their iron, but when they did -- with # great ships to evacuate all humans from the world of their origin -- humanity, was armed with the knowledge the Bzrabba had given, plus what men had gained for themselves, for Man was not an old and stagnant race and had already spread to the near stars to live on many worlds that were not naturally hospitable before men made them so. The fleet's leading elements were met first out near Altair. The meeting was cordial. Neither side wished to inconvenience the other. Nowhere on the spherical perimeter did a Bzrabba craft penetrate closer to Sol than the vicinity of T au Ceti. # I In an alternate Eden, would men love, hate -- or simply forget? her feet, using the branches of the nearby yookal tree for support. It had been a lovely day and now she would join the others for a sleep. She walked slowly to the place of night gatherings, wondering at the ache of her body. She did not feel as she used to. She could not move as easily -- none of them could. Things had happened to their bodies and one day they would play the tapes and find out why. She passed her hidden place on the way to the others, but the memory of that day so long ago was dim and easily pushed aside. It had never happened again. Lyria and Sera were there already and Cumny and Treece were approaching from the waterside. It was strange not to have Jaycee with them any more. She had stopped just a short time before and it was hard to remember that she would not begin again. Playnia sat down and nodded at the others. Each put the food she had. gathered on the ground and all shared the meal. Hunger stopped. They spoke of the day that had been and they wondered if they would all be there after sleep. Sera suggested looking at the tapes. Lyria had suggested it the sleep before. No one answered and they each curled up in the shallow depressions their bodies had worn into the soil through the years and they slept. Playnia had the dream she often had. When she awoke she was still stunned by its vividness and she recalled Jaycee's dreams -- they had begun just before she stopped. Playnia decided that she would look at the tapes after one more sleep -- or two. Looking at the tapes meant going into the darkness of the ship -- the ship that once shimmered in the light of the sun was now shining softly from the bite of the sands that shifted around it. Playnia did not really want to go into that darkness or to see the tapes she knew she should have seen a long time ago. She slowly returned to her sleep.  inal paper will stand. We'll find a civilization without war, without harmful strife of any kind -- gentle and cultured." But Karl thought he knew human nature. "Altman, you are wrong. Their civilization -- as you call it -- will be the same as those we Jenow -- humans are always the same. We're going to see battles, feuds, hostility. Environment had no basic effect on shaping human society. Man himself is the cause of his problems." "I have been studying the original reports again. The planets seeded offered so much that with all needs easily satisfied, man could develop without strife -- " Altman stopped as the captain entered their quarters to say, "Gentlemen, I must ask your in-' dulgence. It is necessary that you tell the crew what is expected of them when we reach Socex, One." The captain looked at them to see who would decide on procedure after landing. His worst fears were realized. "I will," calmly stated each of the experts. The captain, who had been privileged to hear their conflicting views through many a meal, decided to leave his problem where it was. "Altman," he said, "you will talk at nine. Karl, you may address the crew at three."  with a slight hunger. She walked over to the grove to her left and ate of the fruit there. When she was satisfied she left the sleep area and ambled down toward the ship. When she arrived she saw that Sera had come there before her. They greeted each other and turned back -- the tapes could wait another day. Sera had discovered a place of particular color and the two of them went to the grove to look and feel the peace of the color and the touch of the breeze. They spent the day there -- days were beginning to pass ever more quickly. Playnia had to push thoughts of the old days, the one different day, many times from her head. Sera, too, seemed often to be elsewhere. ' That night the five of them decided to hear a tape after they slept. They had made such decisions twice before. The first time the tape had told them of the joys of the place where they lived and had identified the words for all the things around them. The second time they had not listened. The place itself and the strangeness of their bodies that had occurred for a time had kept them from it -- they knew it was wrong not to keep listening, but they did not return. Now, so many, many years later (if the one tape they had heard were right about time) they thought they should hear another tape. But as they were about to leave for the ship after their sleep. Sera did not waken. Playnia and the others put her under the sand far from the places they used. They did not see the tapes. with the eighty-year-old tape of Socex-#. It was a lush and green place. A place of little temperature variation and abundant foodstuffs. There were no predators on the planet. Socex-I Was one of the many worlds that man had been startled to find scattered through the universe. Planets that were Earthlike, and yet offered even more than Earth, abounded. Man had settled many of them, but always to destroy them -- and often himself. Hence the experiment. Send to each of a given number of planIF ets a group of w#h-six was picked as the optimal nuiribcr -- all about to give birth. Amnesia would be induced and they would be set down on the planet to produce young. Amniocentesis allowed the choosing of various combinations of male and female offspring. Each planet would be left strictly alone for a predetermined period before being revisited. Perhaps a cure would be found to the problems man seemed to bring with him wherever he went. Each of the groups would be taught a language -- a language developed to keep out preconceived behavioral patterns. There were no words for love or war or hate or fear. The lifeship that landed them contained tapes first acclimating them to the planet, then giving them information as needed. "They will return to the ship and play the tapes as a result of suggestions implanted at the time their amnesia was induced. Man is an enterprising animal. We shall probably find a peaceful culture -- a culture devoted to the arts. There may be as many as two hundred people -- and we must not alarm or influence them. This experiment will continue -- we are merely to record the results to date. Then we can begin our analysis. The World Federation, which sponsors and supports the project, will then decide, on the basis of results, on the next step. This is the first of ten experimental planets. I just want to remind you that these are in all probability a peaceful, loving people. Professor Karl feels differently. Think carefully before deciding whether or not you want to be part of the first landing unit." K arl began his lecture, with the same eighty-year-old tape of Socex-I that Altman had used. He, too, pointed out that the planet was lush and green, a place of little temperature variation and abundant foodstuffs. There were no predators. "... thus man, becoming bored, is likely to engage in all manner of competitive sport. This is likely in turn to lead to real conflict. We will probably find a world not unlike that of the early stone age on Earth. You must be prepared to protect yourselves and the recording equipment as well. But we must not interfere with the experiment. Please bear that in mind when you decide whether or not you wish to be a part of the first landing unit." down to the lake. She spent some time in the cool, quiet water. She sensed a dullness in herself. It was like the feeling she had on that day long gone. She wondered why she kept thinking back to that -- then realized that there was something about it she wished to remember. She left the water and walked over to her hidden place -- where she had put the thing that day. She stared at the ground for many hours. At last, hungry, she walked back to the grove and Cumny and Treece. Lyria had stopped the sleep before. "Perhaps we should see the tapes before we, too, are no more," she almost pleaded. Cumny lay down the fruit she was holding. She said, "No. We have not for so long -- we ought not." Treece agreed. Playnia and the other two lay down to sleep-all seemed to sleep more these days. As they were drifting off Playnia heard a mumbled comment about the thing that had come from Cumny on that day. She sat upright. "Cumny, Cumny, what thing? Please." But Cumny had stopped. Treece looked at Playnia and shrugged. "On the day we came apart," Treece said, "we were all so ashamed. I never could speak of it. Now there is no shame. Shame -- that is a word like sorrow. It is an old word." A flicker of a longforgotten past seemed to flash through her old mind. Playnia said, "I thought something was happening to all of you, too. But it was over so quickly. The hurt of it -- I can still remember the hurt. The tearing and rending of my body. But I did not lt it destroy me. Perhaps we should have listened to the second tape. But the days before that one were so lovely. When the hurt ended and I saw the horror that had tried to destroy me -- I stopped it." "Did you feel empty -- a lack?" Treece asked. "Not so much a lack as a fear that you would discover my secret and not want me with you. Perhaps the tapes could tell us what happened to each of us on that day. Do you want to find out?" Treece shook her head. "No. It has been over for so long. The days since have been good. Ob, for years there was the reminder every month, but that stopped long since. It may all be over. We are not reminded -- not anymore." Playnia glanced up at the sky, her attention caught by a large shadow. She took Treece by the hand and they wandered off into the grove. They would come back later perhaps. And see if the shadow returned.  IF roomR When people begin to listen again to the old swing records, go to revivals of old shcwys or read books of the type popular forty years or more ago, it's easy to blame it on nostalgia, a sentimental yearning for things past. It's much more convenient for tunesmiths, dramatists, writers and critics to dismiss it all as nostalgia than it is to wonder if perhaps their values have somehow been corrupted and if people are simply turning to what will again give them the things they've always liked and wanted. The sentimental or "camp" sense of nostalgia is only a lesser definition of the word, not even mentioned in Webster's Second. The original and still most important definition is homesickness -- an honest feeling, devoid of condescension and sentimentality. Many people want to go home again to where their roots have always been. Maybe they wantto be able to hum and whistle tunes and laugh and have fun at movies and plays. The success of playwright Neil Simon has not so far been attributed to nostalgia, yet he is one of the few who never seems to leave home from the older virtues of the drama. And heresy though it be now, I suggest that maybe people want to go home to the kind of fiction that quickened their pulses, kept them reading for pleasure and excitement long after they should have gone to sleep. I think we've had the novelty of trying to be great thinkers and daring innovators in our reading matter and now at least some of us want to go home -- go back to where strong men tingled with powerful emotions, where creeps crept off into the night and were forgotten, where romance had something warm to it other than the blankets -- return to adventure, to life with endocrines that work, and to fun. In witness whereof: seven of the books lying before me for review hark back to fiction and writers popular forty or fifty years ago. These represent the work of three publishers and four writers. And one is part of a series that has been one of the most popular in recent years among science-fiction and fantasy readers. last is Captive of Gor, by John Norman (Ballantine, #c). in the Chronicles of CounterEarth, and the earlier volumes in the series are still selling very well indeed. I think the only good way to describe the series is. also the best way to explain its success -- these novels are the closest thing now being written to the Martian books of Edgar Rice Burroughs. They don't imitate slavishly. They make no attempt to copy style directly and the mechanical device of the lost princess is pretty well forgotten after the first book. But at their best (particularly in the third volume. Priest Kings of Gor) they are darned good adventure stories with the feeling and reach of Burroughs. Their faults have sometimes been great and highly annoying, but 'somehow their virtues -- the virtues of good fiction -- save them. The current volume, however, falls rather short. Tarl, the series hero, doesn't appear until some ten pages before the end of a very long book and then only under the name of Bosk of Port Kar. The viewpoint character here is Elinor Brinton, a spoiled rich girl of rew York City, who is captured and taken to Gor to be a slave. Aha! Any student of Gor should know most of what occurs from there on. Yep, Norman has decided that maybe he didn't quite get his message across from the male viewpoint -- maybe some readers weren't quite able to understand, even after all those hundreds of previous pages, that women like to be enslaved and beaten. So he has taken a woman character and shown us how much fun it is, and how no woman can resist any strong man who knows how to subdue her properlyIt takes up # pages of text, so we get our money's worth of words, at least. But otherwise, the book IF isn't worth th#; prk;, except to those really huigflTOn or able to beat their own women as they'd like! . "-'chivalrous school (in the mddern sense of chivalry, of course). No women are beaten in his books, though his male charac ters take enough blows, to satisfy the most blood-thirsty. He has written three books about a gentleman from Virginia -- sorry, I got mixed up -- about a modern American on the fabulous planet of Callisto. These are Jandar of Callisto, Black Legion of Callisto and Sky Pirates of Callisto. All are from Dell, at #c each. They are frankly imitative of the Burroughs' Martian series, as Carter admits elsewhere. They are independent (in the sense that Burroughs' early books were independent, but with cliff-hangers) yet the three readily form one continuous story devoted to Jandar's discovery of the strange and entrancing world of Callisto and of the princess Darloona -- as pure and noble a girl as Burroughs ever penned and one as nobly loved. In these, Carter has copied every trick of Burroughs, including those that are faults. The story begins with the usual business of the hero being forced to hide in ruins, from which he escapes to another world; and we're given a full frame of how the manuscript reached Carter, etc. etc. At the end of the first two books, we find our hero, having lost his princess, sitting down to write out the account for shipment back to Earth before he goes out to find her. Yet once we're in action, it moves pretty well. Carter substitutes an insect-man for the green Martian friend of John Carter, and that comes off rather well. The beasts and the backgrounds are copies of Burroughs, in a sense, but they have sufficient originality. And the Sky Pirates who take up much of the story are a good invention and generally well worked out, (Exception: When a light gas, such as hydrogen, is compressed, it will not have greater lifting power -- on the contrary, putting twice as much gas in the same space means the gas weighs twice as much, and hence will be able to lift less!) The only fully original touch of the plotting, however, is a mistake. Carter has his hero -- logically, probably -- as a somewhat incompetent fighter. This simply doesn't fit the pattern. It's only after he's taught to be a sword-master that the action perks up. And I wonder why Jandar had none of the advantages of Earthly muscles on a light world that John Carter enjoyed on Mars? Carter defends imitation by stating elsewhere that people can no longer read new Burroughs' books, much as they want to. So someone has to write such books. Maybe. But I suspect that's not quite true. No modern man can really think in Burroughs' head. I suspect that Norman's Gor is better than any direct imitation can be, simply because it permits the writer to exercise his own talents toward the same end that Burroughs sought. The Jandar novels, within their limitations, make for fairly entertaining reading. Certainly they are better than many of the imitations of Burroughs written when Burroughs was still writing. When Lin Carter isn't imitating so directly he does a better job of getting the Burroughs effect, I think. In his Under the epilogue (from which I've quoted him) in which he deals quite frankly with imitation versus being influenced by Burroughs. I find that Carter considers the Jandar novels to be imitations and the Green Star story to be merely influenced. In some ways, I see the difference. And yet, there is a considerable imitative factor here, too. While there is no prologue on how Carter "found" the manuscript -- a device I consider clumsy and ineffective -- there is a prologue in which we are told how our hero gets to the world of the Green Star. On this device, which was a literary trick used by many writers. I'm undecided -- today it is seldom used. Yet perhaps it should be whenever the means of getting there is interesting in itself. Here Carter does fairly well. He uses mysticism and astral projection, but he avoids the error Burroughs made in having his hero leave a body on Earth and then wake up on Mars fully embodied -- in the same body! I've always shared Carter's annoyance at this. Then he winds up with the straight Burroughs technique of having his hero back on Earth, not knowing whether his princess has escaped doom or not. There are other differences. An important one is that our hero has been a hopeless invalid on Earth, so his lust for the active, healthy life he can lead on another world is both more convincing and more deeply felt than would otherwise have been the case. There is originality under the Green Star. Yet I end up feeling that the Lin Carter who is not directly imitating Burroughs is IF really writing much more truly like Burroughs! I preferred this book to the Jandar ones and recommend it to those who really are hopefully looking for the books that Burroughs, the Master, can no longer give us. There  Scorpio, by Alan Burt Akers tative. It begins badly enough with an "explanation" from Akers on how he acquired the tapes from which the story is transcribed. It then moves on to a fairly good beginning. We discover that the hero. Dray, reached Kregen (in the Constellation of Scorpio) long ago, having been born in #J#. Not bad -- we are led to expect a somewhat different hero by his background alone. We are also introduced to a group of beings who explain Dray's arrival on scene -- they gather people from many worlds. All of this leads in time to the fact that Dray has been bounced back and forth between Earth and Kregen several times. Could be interesting, but somehow nothing much seems to come of it. Maybe because he's had time to become modern. Dray shapes up as no more than any other Earthman falling for a beauteous damsel on another world. And the returns to Earth don't amount to much, after all, except to give him a chance to be stranded here at the end, longing to go back to his damsel in the same old way. In between we have the rise of our hero as a warrior, his pursuit of his damsel and so on. But sadly lacking is the texture of a Burroughs world. Somehow the animals and the cultures Dray finds don't have that alien touch of romance that can be found in the Master -- or in Carter, for that matter. It seems to boil down to a pretty standard set of experiences, after the first indication that Kregen was going to be truly different. It isn't bad -- but I didn't find it particularly good either. A nother way to imitate, unfortunately, is to make fun of something, to satirize it. That is what John Jakes has done in his Mention My Name in Atlantis natured and sometimes amusing, but I can't see it, though the back cover calls it an uproarious cliffhanger. The whole idea of turning Robert E. Howard's type of sword and sorcery into something uproarious strikes me as about on a par with trying to make a limerick out of an Edgar Guest poem. But if you feel turned on by discovering "How Conax the Chimerical Helped Sink the Lost Continent!" you're not my type of reader anyhow, so go ahead. A nd now I find that I owe a deep apology to those who are at least somewhat my type of reader. For some reason I can't understand, I seem not to have reviewed a darned good book that I thoroughly enjoyed. This is Other Days, Other Eyes, by Bob Shaw (Ace, #). If it is still available on your stands, don't neglect it. When it first came out I was almost afraid to read it. Shaw's first "slow glass" story was so exceptionally good as a short story that I hated to see it forced into a novel. I needn't have worried. It isn't forced. This novel includes the short story and the other stories that Shaw did on slow glass -- that nriarvelous substance that holds back light so we can see wht has happened days or even years before. But the book does far more than put a frame around the contents -- it begins at the beginning and traces the whole affair in such a way that each story now means more to me than when I first read it. It also goes on with excellent and controlled inventiveness to work out a logic that could not have been expected from the invention of slow glass. It's the novel I've wanted from Shaw since he first did the short story -- and the fact that the novel is on the same background is pure serendipity to me. Most highly recommended. Keith Laumer's The Glory Game (Doubleday, #), but with a few reservations. This is a story of a potential war between the forces of Earth and the alien Hukk and of the man who is put squarely in the middle. Earth is divided -- the militants want to strike now, while we can still beat them: As a man in the Space Navy, Commodore Dalton might be expected, of course to be one of the Hardline boys. On the other hand, the diplomatic Softliners believe the Hukk can be dealt with without any dreadful war -- and they can offer Dalton more than the Navy can. But on t'other hand, he's interested in a girl whose father, Senator Kevin, is a Hardliner. And around and around we go as Dalton gets caught in the Glory Game. To make matters worse, during some supposedly peaceful maneuvers he has full responsibility for mankind -- unofficially -- and no authority -- officially. And the Hukks aren't playing the same game. And no matter IF what he does he's going to get'ptire hell on Earth. It's that kind of a situation and it's beautiful. Laumer handles it with both logic and zest as the situation becomes more tangled. But, toward the end of the book there's a curious change of pace. Laumer has given a nicely developed and detailed story of conflict on all levels through most of the novel. But suddenly Dalton is isolated and the story seems to halt. Truthfully it doesn't. It picks up again. But in the final stages the elements of crisis seem to become telescoped and reduced to a much smaller scale. I'd suggest that the first eight chapters be House. Guest-of-Honor: Larry Niven. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Sampo Productions, # Alhambra, No. #, San Francisco, California #.  tel, New Orleans. Guest-of-Honread quickly -- as they will be, since they have a fine pace of their own; but from chapter nine on, readers might well go slowly, examining everything against the events preceding. It may not seem like the same fracas, but it is. And careful reading will make this stand out. I wish Laumer had used another # words to let us know more about Arianne and others later, as well as to keep a bit more complexity at the end. But it's still a novel that must be recommended. Laumer is a writer with enough different ways of writing not to have to imitate even himself.  or: Joseph Green. Membership: #. For Information: John Guidry, # Finch Street, New Orleans, Louisiana #.  August #September #, #. ence Fiction Convention: At Royal York Hotel, Toronto, Canada. Guest-of-Honor: Robert Bloch. Rotsler. Toastmaster at Hugo Awards Banquet: Lester del Rey. Membership: # attending and # supporting (until ##), # at the door. For information: Torcon #, Box #, Station K. Toronto #, Ontario, Canada. bungled. They had created him -- hadnt they? Well? The rest of the issue was good as usual, but I did miss the letter column. New Orleans, La. It bothers me, too, when uncontrollable story lengths accidentally coincide in one issue to crowd out Hue and Cry. This is where the reward and research live for you and for me. In letters such as the above -- and the one following. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: When we began reading Construction Shack (If February #) by Clifford D. Simak, one of our favorite writers, we expected good science fiction. Unhappily, as we soon discovered, the story is less science fiction than fictional science! Mr. Simaks scientific knowledge is surprisingly and deplorably ' deficient. Among his major errors: I) Mr. Simak states that # grams per cubic centimeter was the  previously supposed density of Pluto. But since this value is about three times that of the dens( Continued from page #  est known metal, the majority of scientists have never supposed anything of the sort! #) He ascribes calculation of Plutos mass to measurement of... eccentricities. But eccentricity is only a measure of the departure of an ellipse from circularity. Simak should say  perturbation, which is a deviation in an orbit due to a gravitational field other than the suns. #) Simak s unmanned Plutonian probe must return to Earth since its films are far better than its transmissions. Ridiculous! It is much easier to build a one-way probe with any desired quality of transmission than a necessarily heavier two-way probe (the mass-ratio of a twoway probe equals the square of that fdr a one-way probe). #) He declares a  manned craft could pile on velocity that could not be safely programed into a probe. Whats he afraid of -- collisions? With what -- meteor storms? They went out with the science of the  thirties. #) From Pluto, he says, "The sun... is not much more than a slightly brighter star. In reality, from Pluto the sun is # times brighter than the full moon on (from?) Earth! IF #) He claims an unsuited astronaut would explode in a vacuum. Blood vessels will rupture, yes. But explode? No! Again, science of the  thirties. #) For hundreds of years Pluto has been the last outpost," Simak says. But Pluto was not discovered until #. So are we to think the story occurs centuries from now? If so, the flights to Mars he mentions are also centuries away. Rather unreasonable! #) Simak states communications time lag between Pluto and Earth is # hours. Actually its no more than seven. #) Simak thinks electrostatic attraction is needed to maintain Pluto s surface dust, which would otherwise fly off into space. But the .#-G field he assumes is more than adequate for the task. Dust simply lies there. Only agitated molecules of a would-be atmosphere escape into space! There are other mistakes, none of them trivial. Science fiction has two functions: to entertain and to inform. Construction Shack has miserably failed in the second function -- indeed, it has misinformed. We have always liked Simak s writing. We hope it will return to its usually high standards. Rick Conley Conley Powell, Ph.D. Department of Mechanical Engineering University of Kentucky Lexington, Ky. My personal feeling is that "the last outpost" was there long before it was discovered -- and that Cliff Simak was indeed writing about a moment remote from this time, distance measured perhaps in wisdom rather than calendar years or centuries. You're perfectly correct about the inapplicability of the science of the 'thirties today. Many scientific myths were exploded in our lunar landings and Mars flybys. Cliff invented, I thought, a few implausible ones to explode in the future -- he was telling us to expect the unexpected when we study the blueprints of creation. And saying it in depth. if he failed to inform you -- perhaps you weren't looking. Dear Mr. Jakobsson:  never take time to write to publishers, but I enjoyed Death and Designation Among The Asadi by Michael Bishop so much that I decided to write and tell you. Jo A nne B. Cavender Dayton, Ohio #S Ecsf #S W N e Y o r  N  I # #  T i # pgr wor# mamo mtO mMrmni. #-wont mtoOmmm. Pofmoni wtth wOot. u Psychic. Send Name, Birthdate. Time, Location and #. magazines. Arfcham House, Fantasy Press, LovecraR #. Florida State Christian College. Post Office Box #. Fort Lauderdale, Florida #. authors. Shocking fiction, uncensored opinions, out#. Portland, OR #. #. Longview, Washington #. #. free...Autosuggestion, Box #-GY. Olympia. Washington #I . #.Stanwood, Washington #. Ohio #. assembled Sciertce Fair Psychogalvanometer reveals #. Hamilton. Montana #. D. Cockrell. Box #, Bronson. Mich. #. ArKlerson and others. # for Premidr Edition to Box #, Oakland. Califomia #. N.J. # tion radio programs are now available on tape. #" Oklahoma # rent issue features Sitverberg. PohL-Bradbury. White. book Dianetics: Modem Science of Mental Health by L Ron Hubbard has ah applied philosophy to show you how. Send # to Bookatore-IF. Foundmg Church of Scientology, # #th St. N.W., Washington, D C. #. zine. # a word buys msU order sales and highly Low rates for schedules. Write or call Frank Brennan. N.Y. #. (#) MU#-#. i of a man who finds liberation from the imprisonment of his body by returning to the sea. He travels to ever deeper places and rarer wonders until he becomes a part of lived the watery world itself. "A strange and often fascinating book."  Kirkus Reviews "Most excitingly written." # inner # at your bookstore Houghton Mifflin Company space A total of I #P gets you quite a trip to the furthest reaches of the #th dimension...the fabulous realms of the sciencefiction mind... with decade as your guides. Just # can bring you great books like #-page anthology of # prizewinners. They'rethetales awarded The Hugo, speculative fiction's equivalent of the Oscar -- by people who really know. The World Science Fiction Convention. A great beginning for your science fiction adventure. Herbert, the acclaimed winner of both the Hugo and Nebula awards. Ittakesyouto the frightening world of Arrakis . as fearsome as the creatures who inhabit it. first novel in fifteen years. And, the great master's never been in better form. original pieces from authors such as Bradbury, Blish, Vonnegut and nearly # pages of excitement. Yes, choose these or any four books on this page for just # Cto help cover shipping), and you're on your way to mindbending membership in the Science Fiction Book Club. Dept CL #, Garden City. N Y # Please accept my application tor membership in the Science Fiction Book Chib and send me the # books whose numbers I have written in the boxes below Bill me just # (to help cover shipping) for all # About every # weeks, send me the club's bulletin, "Things to Come!' describing the # coming Selections and a variety of Alternate choices If I wish to receive both Selections, I need do nothing, they will be shipped to me automatically Whenever I don't want I of the # Selec twns or prefer an Alternate, or no book at all, I will notify you by the date specified by returning the convenient form always provided I need take only # Selections or Alternates during the coming year, and may resign any time thereafter Most books are onW I #, plus a modest charge for shipping and handling (Jccasionally, extra-value Selections are slightly higher entire introductory package within # days Membership will be cancelled I owe nothing     Mr, Miss Please Print Address City I State Zip I L J when you join and agree to buy only # books during the coming year. # Again, Dangerous Visions, Harlan Ellison, ed Forty-six pieces, short stories  novels Explicit scenes and language may be offensive to some. Pub ed # # # Dune by Frank Herbert Celebrated winner of Hugo and Nebula. Gripping tale of family exiled from their private planet to another, a barren desert Pub ed # # # Thuvia, Maid of Mars and The Chessmen of Mars by Edgar Rice Burroughs #-novel, #volume sci-fi special Adventures of man on planet Mars Spec Ed # Cities in Flight by James Blish. At last, the four masterpieces in one volumean underground classic that encompasses all mankind, his universe, and their relationship Spec Ed # Nebula Award Stories Seven, Lloyd Biggie, Jr , Ed The latest novellas and short stories prizewinners picked by Sci-Fi Writers of America Includes Anderson, Silverberg, and others Pub ed # # # The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov The master's first novel in # years and worth the wait for a fabulous trip to the year # Pub ed # # #I The Dancer  From Atlantis by Poul Anderson Four people from different ages and cultures are catapulted by a time machine back to #BC Spec Ed # The Man Who Folded Himself by David Gerrold Inheriting a time belt promises the joys of the worldbut something goes wrong Pub ed S# # # The Sheep Look Up by John Brunner The celebrated author, of Stand On Zanzibar, a mind-bender that chronicles the collapse of civilization Pub. ed # # # The Overman Culture, Edmund Cooper The author of Sea-Horse In The Sky spins a tale of a city encircled by a moat roads that lead to one place...and a new culture Pub ed # # # The Hugo Winners, Vol !  II Giant #-in-l volume of # award-winning stories, # to #. Asimov introduces each. Pub. ed # # # The Wind from The Sun by Arthur C. Clarke # sci-fi short takes by a master of the medium The Cruel Sky and Dial F For Frankenstein are two of the featured fantasies Pub ed # # The Science Fiction Book Club offers its own complete, hardbound editions, sometimes altered in size to fit special presses and save members even more Members accepted in U S A and Canada only Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto Offer slightly different in Canada,  August iab  fixf  plus Clifford D. Simak  Chelsea Quinn Yarbro Lester del Rey  Gene Wolfe  David Magil The paper time machine also a tool: a time machine that enables you to replay the crucial events -- past, present, and future -- that shape our lives. Now. instead of merely reading about what's happening, you can explore and experience the alternatives and decision points through the technique of Conflict Simulation. What ia Conflict Simulation? Conflict Simulation is a way of analyzing a political or military conflict situation. A way that is as intellectually stimulating as a game of chess, and as thorough as a written analysis. Through the use of the Conflict Simulation (or "game") format, the conflict situation is re-createdso that you are in a position to make the vital decisions and, in the game at least, change the way things were, are, or will b What you gel ed bi-monthly. Each issue contains:  A ready-to-play conflict-simulation game with a # x #" playing surface, die-cut playing pieces, and complete rules.  An analytical article on the same subject as the game in that issue.  Other feature articles on historical and military subjects.  Game and book reviews, commentary on existing games, and discussions of subscribers' questions. The magazine is #  pages long, and all material is handled in a highly organized (and easily understandable) graphic format. bat in Western Europe, #). We also publish a separate line of conflictsimulation games, which you will find listed in the coupon. -- Free to new subscribers battle presented in a game-design specially created to introduce new readers to Conflict Simulation. I Send check or M.O. to:  Simulations Publications Inc. Dept. # # # Ext #rd St... New York. N.Y. # Please enter my subscription to S.  T. for: #I Year (# issues)# U # Yrs. (# issues) -- SI # # Yrs. (# issues) -- # J Current issue # Sand me the following Simulation Games: Kursk (Russia. #)-# Korea (#-#) -- # Phalanx (ancient Greece)-# "--iw (Russia, I #) -- # (Napoleonic Wars. #) -- # -(the #-Day lnvasion)-#   Please s e your free brochure. j Address --  City The paper time machine also a tool: a time machine that enables you to replay the crucial events -- past, present, and future -- that shape our lives. Now, instead of merely reading about what's happening, you can explore and experience the alternatives and decision points through the technique of Conflict Simulation What is Conflict Simulation? Conflict Simulation is a way of analyzing a political or military conflict situation. A way that is as intellectually stimulating as a game of chess, and as thorough as a written analysis Through the use of the Conflict Simulation (or "game") format, the conflict situation is re-created -- so that you are in a position to make the vital decisions and. in the game at least, change the way things were. are. or will be What you gat ed bi-monthly. Each issue contains:  A ready-to-play conflict-simulation game with a # x #" playing surface, die-cut playing pieces, and complete rules.  An analytical article on the same subject as the game in that issue.  Other feature articles on historical and military subjects.  Game and book reviews, commentary on existing games, and discussions of subscribers' questions. The magazine is #  pages long, and all material is handled in a highly organized (and easily understandable) graphic format. bat m Western Europe, #). We also publish a separate line of conflictsimulation games, which you will find listed in the coupon. Free to new subscribers battle presented in a game-design specially created to introduce new readers to Conflict Simulation. Send check or M.O. to: Simulations Publications Inc. Ospt. #I # Eat #rd St... New York. N.Y. # Please enter my subscription to S. A T. for: ni Year (# issues)#  # Yrs. (# issues) -- SI # h # Yrs. (# issues) -- #  Current issue # Send me the following Simulation Games: Kursk (Russia. #-S# Korea (I #-#I )-S# Phalanx (ancient Greece)-S# Barbarosea (Russia. #-#)- Leipzig (Napoleonic Wars. #)-S# Normandy (the D-Oay Invasion)-  Please send me your free brochure. Name City State Zip JulyAugust # Vol. #, No. # Issue # Arnold E. Abramson, Publisher Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Theodora Sturgeon, Contributing Editor Albert Dytch, Managing Editor Lester del Rey, Feature Editor L. C. Murphy, Subscription Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director Clifford D. Simak  # Chelsea Quinn Yarbro #I Worlds of IF is published bimonthly by iary 'of Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation. Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main Offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Single copy: #e. #-issue subscription: # in U.S., # elsewhere. Worlds of IF is published in the United Kingdom by Universal-Tandem Publishing Company, Ltd., # Gloucester Road, London SW# #RD. Arnold E. Abramson, Chairman ofthe Board. Ralph Stokes, Managing Director. Single copy: #p. #issue subscription in the United Kingdom:  #. sal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. The publishers assume no responsibility for unsolicited material. AU stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in U.S.A. who we are. The only thing we, however, know about you is that you read science fiction. But now we need to know more about you to continue to bring you the type of fiction -- and, incidentally, advertisements -- that will interest you. Please fill in the following in as much detail as you can; your time will be well spent and most appreciated. I . Male Female # . Age #. Student: High School College # . College graduate Degrees S'. Income: Under # #-# #-T# #-# Over # #. Profession #. Own Home Rent: House Apartment # . What magazines, other than science fiction, do you read regularly? Europe Other #. Means of travel: Plane Auto Train Bus Other #. Do your own: Boat Est. value Automobile Est. value Hi-Fi equipment Est. value Home Workshop Est. value CamperMotor Home Est. Value Camera equipment Est. value Motorcycle Est. value Snowmobile Est. value #. Interests: Skiing Fishing Swimming Hunting Golfing Tennis Bowling Camping Flying Boating Gardening Home repairs Photography # Stamp collecting Coin collecting Other #. Afffllatlons: Fraternal Professional Athletic Social -- : Scientific Other #. Are you a member of: Book Club Record club Other Red Cross Political club #. Investments: Stocks Bonds Real Estate Thank you for taking the time to respond to our Questionnaire. Please send your completed form to: IF Reader Research # East # Street New York, NY # ancL i pi, '): Rrjdt-fs writ.' im! wrotur Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I have several things to comment on regarding the April ' # Worlds of If. I have never really enjoyed del Rey as a reviewer until this issue, but this was a review from which much can be learned. Most reviewers seldom come down hard on even a bad book, but Mr. del Rey did a fine job on Cloning. I like reviewers who demand a lot and let readers know when a book may not be up to par. Vll be paying closer, attention to this column from now on. I am about to add Colin Kapp to my small but growing list of authors who cause me to sit up all night reading. So far only Delany and Ursula K. LeGuin have managed the feat. Now Mr. Kapp has joined them.  cant remember a serial that has had me more eagerly waiting for : the next installment than his last one in If. The conclusion of The Wizard of Anharitte was the first thing I read in the April issue and it was good to the end -- one of the most entertaining, enjoyable and best thought-out books I've had the pleasure to read in a long time. Another thing I'd like to bring up deals with the suddenly (to me) asinine efforts (including my own) at defining science fiction. We are madly trying to name the thing, draw its limits , say where it stops , where it starts and how far it can go. This is a little like saying that the universe is infinitf, but ends four hundred miles beyond Pluto. Nuts. I think most people at least sense that science fiction is a literature without limits, so what the hell are we trying to limit it for? My feeling is that the so-called " hardcore " advocates are way off base. The argument is silly -- science fiction is that form of literature that cant be defined. So why don't we just get down to reaching out farther with our imaginations -- that's what the field needs. One last item: Does anyone know if there is a science fiction club in Vancouver? I've just moved here from the east and have been unable to find out. Nicholas Grimshawe Vancouver, B. C. Will those in the know please reply in care of Hue and Cry? Mr. Grimshawe, an old and valued contributor to this department, neglected to enclose his latest address. Contributors' complete addresses are published only upon request -- in this case to do so might have been in order. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: It seems that  have entered my subscriptions at an odd date -- just when the last Jack Gaughan art died away from the covers of If and Galaxy. Will the old fellow ever be coming back? Oh, sure -- I see plenty of his sketches inside, but none outside. Cover by Brian Boyle, says an inside page. I sigh in passive sadness -- no Gaughan. Ever since his weirdo covers for the lensman series I've been following his artwork all across the world of sf books and mag ( Continued on page  #) I sail rang the door chime -- who carries a housekey halfway down the galaxy's arm and back, eight months by Skip Drive? It was long enough, he saw, for the white paint to have begun flaking off the door. Pearsall had applied that paint slowly and lovingly only a few weeks before Hawk Flight's departure. The industrial fumes evidently had been getting worse. His wife opened the door. "Who -- Woody!" She flung herself at him, arms reaching and clasping -- but only for a moment. Suddenly she recoiled and staggered back, her face contorted. "No!" She backed away through the foyer toward the living room, hands clenching and unclenching, gray eyes wide and mouth slack with shock. He followed, but didn't try to touch her. "What's the matter, Glenna?" Something was happening too fast -- he couldn't believe her reaction, let alone understand it. "You heard the ship was in, didn't you?" Her face was pale, the fine cheekbones standing out from the faint hollows Tjelow. She shook her head. Her mouth worked but no words came out.  "You've cut your hair," he said. She had always worn it long and straight. Now it was a mass of short curls, tinted a lighter redbrown than he remembered. One curl hung loose over her right eyebrow, near the tiny black mole at the corner of her eye. Almost as tall as he, still slim, she stood rigidly defensive, angles of bone accenting her loose beige robe. "Who are you? What do you want?" It didn't make sense. He tried to smile but the smile died -- he suppressed an impulse to reach out to her. "Well, who do I look like?" His tone was gentle. "Have I changed so much in only eight months?" Her fisted hands stood out  little from her sides, shaking. "Whoever you are, it isn't funny! It's a cruel, cruel joke!" Now he felt the edge of panic -- sweat prickled at his armpits. She turned arid ran to the bedroom, paused just inside the doorway. "Get out! You get out of here! I have a gun. My -- my husband's. So you just better get out of here!" She disappeared behind the door -- he heard her rummaging through drawers. To Pearsall, his mind stalled at dead center, the chime of the picturephone came almost as a rblief. Automatically he set his bag on the floor and crossed the room to flip the switch, the thought came that he'd never heard of anyone being shot while answering the phone and he almost grinned. But not quite -- a bullet was not what he feared. The chubby-faced man on the screen was familiar by sight but not by name -- a junior member of the spaceport commander's staff. "Yes," the man said, "we thought you might be there." He waved Pearsall to silence. "We've pinpointed the discrepancy noted in the records when Hawk Flight landed. Admiral Forgues wants to discuss that with you. Meanwhile, a John Laifd urgently requests that you call him at his home. One of your navigation personnel, I believe. The young man seemed almost hysterical." Forgues, the port commander, IF moved into the picture. "I'll take it -- I'll take it -- " Peripherally, Pearsall saw Glenna in the bedroom doorway. She had found the .old automatic pistol but the gun pointed at the floor as she watched Pearsall and the screen. "All right," said Forgues, "let's get to the bottom of this. Who are you?" Exasperation drove out fear. Pearsall exhaled hard. "Sir, I am Commander Elwood Jay Pearsall, first officer on Hawk Flight. You've known me for fifteen years at least. Is my identity in doubt?" "It certainly is. Whoever you are you're not Woody Pearsall -- and what you were doing on Hawk Flight , I don't know. But I intend to find out. So you might as well tell the truth. Now." "Damn it, sir, I'm Woody Pearsall." He shook his head briskly to clear it of cobwebs. "Who the hell else would I be?" Forgues grinned tightly. "Well, in that case we do have a problem. Because, you see, you're dead." T HE viewscreen, as Pearsall maneuvered Hawk Flight to its final descent, was spattered with random moving dots. He jiggled a tuning knob slightly, but saw no improvement. The knob was sticky. He made a mental note to tell young Laird that if he absolutely had to eat on watch, for God's sake to wipe his hands before touching the equipment. The landing area showed clearly enough, but the flashing dots were a distraction. The viewing equipment was due for a full overhaul -- but then, so was the entire ship. And so was Pearsall. The spaceport looked unfamiliar, somehow. To hisjight, toward the nearby city, he remembered a soaring tower topping a white, shining building. Surely it couldn't have been torn down in the .eight months he'd been away -- the building had been almost new. Perhaps he was confusing one spaceport with another -- perhaps an overdose of Skip Drive was fogging his memory. He put full attention to landing the ship. The impact was barely noticeable. "Nice grounding. Woody." The voice over the intercom was Captain Vaille's. "Give the watch to Laird and report to my quarters, would you, please?" Pearsall acknowledged. "All your," he said to John Laird. "See you next, on the ground, probably. The maintenance crew will be here to relieve you as soon as our landing blast cools. When they arrive call the captain's quarters for clearance and you're home free." "Yes, sir," said Laird. "Now remember, Commander, I want you and your wife to meet my family, have dinner with us, as soon as you can. You have the address?" "Right." He tipped Laird a mock-salute and left. The captain's quarters were one deck below. Halfway down the narrow ladder Pearsall's heel caught on a torn edge of plastic. He almost fell, but caught himself. "Damned old crock really needs some work," he grumbled. But he patted the bulkhead beside him to soften the curse before proceeding to the captain's cabin. Vaille was big, taller and heavier than Pearsall. On his desk were a bottle and two small glasses. "A toast. Woody? It's been a hard trip, but a good one." They raised their glasses, sipped. The liquor was an oTf-world product, a brandy from Harper's Touchdown. Golden flecks hung in the dark fluid. "You're right, skipper -- a good, hard trip." Eight months on high Skip-factor, never landing, only slowing a few times for fly-by reconnaissance of new planetary systems, took a lot out of men and ship alike. But the odds had been good to them -- Hawk Flight's unmanned one-way probes had discovered two new habitable planets, potential colony sites. "We should be able to disembark in an hour or two," said Vaille. "All the tapes and solarwind samples are boxed to go. I imagine everyone has his own stuff packed, or nearly. I can throw my gear together in five minutes." Pearsall grinned. "Me, too. Or leave it -- and good riddance." Vaille laughed with him. It was good to be home. Even the normally reticent captain was affected. In due time the maintenanceand-repair crew boarded. Its chief brought clearance papers, thus accepting responsibility for the ship -- red tape was minimal. Spaceport personnel began the unloading of cargo. And finally Hawk Flight's crew, fifteen men and nine women, trod the catwalk to the outside gantry, rode the elevator down and touched shoe soles to Earth's concrete rind. As always, that moment gripped Pearsall's throat. longer greeted returning crews personally. Many ships came and went now and Forgues had other duties -- procedures had been streamlined. Even the newspersons stayed away; making do with official handouts unless a real newsitem were involved. Announcement of the two new colony planets, Pearsall guessed, would soon bring them running. IF He didn't recognize the subordinate who was preparing to do the honors. The man struck him as a bit of a fussbudget, with his clipboard in one hand and pencil shifted awkwardly back and forth between handshakes. "Captain Vaille? Yes." Checkmark, shift pencil, handshake. "Welcome. Honored, sir." End of handshake. Shift pencil. "First Officer Frantiszek?" Checkmark. Shift pencil. "No. I'm First Officer Pearsall." No handshake. The pencil wavered. "Pearsall? Must be a mixup. Where's Frantiszek?" Pearsall looked for Vaille to answer, but the captain was talking with someone else, a few feet away. "I replaced Frantiszek when he broke his leg skiing, a week before we left. Funny you didn't get the correction." The mishap had boosted Pearsall to First Officer a year or two before he had expected the promotion. Erase checkmark, scribble note. "All right -- we'll check it out," the man said and moved along to the next person. No handshake for Pearsall. Bored, he withdrew his attention while the man checkmarked and handshook his way down the list. A tone of exclamation broke his reverie. "Laird? My roster shows r Donald A. Wollheim, Publisher.  First Time in Paperback    By popular demand. Lin Carter's !  I first "Green Star" novel (d la BurI   roughs and Merritt) brought in !   tons of enthusiastic letters from ! ;  readers, and we think this new   ; novel is even more enthralling! It   ; is fully illustrated too. ;  ; (UQI #-#) ; John Brunner in his best modern j ! ; style. What happens when an al !  ien visitor threatens the destruc I ! tion of Earth and Earth is too  ! busy hating its owncomponents  ! even to heed the news?  I (UQI #-#) !; t author, last year's Hugo-winning J ;  novelist. "The Wares of Simple J ; I Simon's Custard Pie and Space j  J Man." Why? Because it contains   a feast of riches in stories, articles j  ' and Phil's own comments. A J  sheer delight. (UQt # -- #)   represnts the discovery of an un; I usual new science-fiction talent, j ! It brings a vision of the next cen ! tury that will inevitably invite  ! comparison with the work of  ! Samuel R. Delany (another Woll ! heim first) and Harlan Ellison. ! I ( UQI #-# ) ######################## no John Laird. What is your position on this ship?" "Junior navigator, sir," the boy answered. "On commander Pearsall's watch." "Pearsall, eh? Neither of you is on my roster." He harumphed. "We'll check it out." No handshake for Laird either. They were escorted to a nearby building for a quick, perfunctory medical check. Orin Teague, Hawk Flight's own medical officer, had made thorough examinations and certified the ship's complement as free of alien infection, but the minimum formality was still observed. Then they were free, the two dozen, to go where they would and do what they could. "Report back Tuesday morning," said the man with the discrepant list. "Oh-eight hundred sharp. That gives you seventy-two hours, less a few." By Tuesday, Pearsall thought, their reports would be analyzed -- the reports they had prepared during the past in-flight months. Until then Hawk Flight's crew was superfluous. That suited him just fine. He shook all the hands he could find, waved goodbyes and left to catch a city-bound tube train. On arrival he used his spaceman's priority card to rent a ground car. He checked its fuel-cell reading and set off for Fisher's Landing, the small neighboring town that was home. He didn't call first -- it had never been his habit. During his absence some street routings had been changed. He found his usual access to the throughway was one-way in the wrong direction. Rather than taking time to solve the new layout, he settled for an older, secondary arterial and soon made his way out of the city into a countryside of rolling hills. It was that time! of autumn when leaves turn color but have yet to fall. One small maple, yellow and fed, so entranced him that he pulled over and stopped -- just to look, to make it part of him. He left before he was done with his tree, because now he was so near that he could no longer wait to see Glenna. Married to him for almost twenty-five years, more than half his life -- she still brought all his senses alive. Either the signs had been changed or he had daydreamed -- he missed his turn-off. But he circled, found an unfamiliar road with the proper designation. Soon he was back on his homeward route and enterings Fisher's Landing. Until he turned into his own street he didn't realize he had been driving faster than usual. He parked in front and paused a moment to look at the house, savoring the weathered wood. Ivy IF was growing to cover the bay window again -- it needed cutting back. A brick, maybe more than one, was missing from the chimney top -- he tried to remember if he'd seen it before. He couldn't be sure. No matter -- he'd have to fix it anyway. He got out of the car and locked it, taking only his bag, leaving his other luggage for later. He strode up the flagstone walk, finally giving impatience its head. By habit he reached into his pocket for the house key. Then he laughed and rang the door chime. at Forgues' blue-tinted image and shook his head. "One of us has to be crazy." "That's possible," said the admiral. "Why else would you pretend to be a man who was killed more than a year ago? Tube train failure -- you must have seen it in the news. The propelling field collapsed. Cars smashed out through the girders. At least seventy dead." "Not me, though." Now he remembered the disaster. "I missed that train." "Obviously," said Forgues, "but Pearsall didn't. You look like hinr -- or like his twin if he had one -- but you can't be Woody. I attended the funeral myself, damn it! So who are you?" To Pearsall none of it made sense -- but somewhere there had to be a handle, a place to apply logic and twist hard. "Ask the captain," he said. "Captain Vaille -- he can vouch for me. Forgues shook his head. "Can't locate him. He and his wife went off somewhere, left no word." "But any of the other officers -- or the crew?" The admiral's head still moved side-to-side, his face stony in negation. "Or even -- the fussy fellow with the clipboard. He saw me come off the ship -- " ' "But he didn't see you get on. Or where you got on." Abruptly Forgues' face went stiff, his eyes wide. At first Pearsall didn't get it -- and then he did. He laughed." Hawk Flight made no outworld landings. Admiral. We didn't even have occasion to use the airlocks. Run the telemetry tapes through your computers." Faced with questions that had answers he felt his mind coming alive, working surely. The admiral's grin was sheepish. "All right, that's easy enough to check. We can scratch the suggestion that you're some kind of alien. But that doesn't tell me who you are. So you tell me." Pearsall shook his head. "I've done that. Sir, with all due respect, we're wasting time. There's a mistake somewhere -- I don't know what it is. I'll report Tuesday as ordered. Meanwhile I have a couple of personal problems to attend to -- urgent ones' He hit the cutoff switch before the admiral could reply. He daught himself worrying with a fingertip the spot at the crown of the head where his hair was thinning and took his hand away. And what of Glenna? He turned and saw her standing near the bedroom doorway, the old handgun hanging loose in her hand. She stared at him, but now in puzzlement rather than outrage. "Well, Glenna? Am I me -- the man you married?" "You can't be." He could barely hear her words. "Woody is dead -- I saw him buried." She winced. "Oh, you look like him, talk and act like him -- but you can't be him." The gun dropped to the carpet. "I wish to God you could. But you can't." She put her hands to her face -- leaning back against the wall she slowly sank to the floor and sat there, sobbing. Knowing he must not touch her, Pearsall moved to squat facing her, not close enough to threaten. Quietly he spoke. "Glenna -- Glenna." Again: "Glenna." Repeating her name slowly until she raised her head and looked at him. "I am Woody," he said, "Woody Pearsall. I look and talk andact like him -- and love like him -- because I am him. I'm me, Glenna, nobody else. A long time ago we married each other -- remember?" Blankfaced, her head shook slowly. "The tube train didn't kill me that night because I missed it. I was late for dinner. You were really angry when I finally got home -- until we saw the news of the wreck. I've been gone eight months on Hawk Flight . Before I left you and I had a champagne dinner -- more champagne than dinner, I'm afraid. Then we took a boat out near the middle of Lake Fisher and made love there. Don't you remember?" "I'd like to. Oh, I'd like to!" Then her voice went dull. "But I can't -- because it didn't happen." "To me it did. And you were there. You were all of it. Try to remember." "I'd like to," she said again. "But I saw my husband dead." Facing him, she was like a blank wall. "I'm dead and I'm not dead." He spoke more toiiimself than to her. "We made love on the lake and we didn't. I was v on the ship but I wasn't. The admiral helped bury me -- but I'm not buried. Glenna -- " His tone snapped her alert. "I don't know what's wrong, IF s h ve i about ai. 'Vor whose most popu# We red . obsess Ws mtnd but if there's any way I can do so I'll find out." He sighed and touched her hair gingerly, as though it might electrocute him. "I have to leave now for a while. But try to know who I am. Will you?" She managed no words, but nodded, then fled, crying. Pearsall calculated -- it was less than an hour's drive -- best to go now, without calling ahead. And better, he thought, not to stay in one place too long -- Forgues might decide to have him pulled in rather than wait until Tuesday. The frontdoor key was on its usual hook in the kitchen. He took it. Dusk had come, the time of beauty that is dangerous to drivers. Pearsall drove fast but with full concentration and alertness -- officially he might be dead but factually he was alive' and determined to remain so. He passed an apartment highrise -- it loomed gray, square and ugly, but the massed upper windows reflected the last of the day's sun as molten copper. The glow fit his mood. He watched until it passed to the side of his vision. The Laird home was hidden in a semi-suburban housing cluster, a puzzle-piece of contrived curving streets that changed names at every jogging. By backtracking and persistence Pearsall found the address he sought. In the dim light the house both sprawled and soared. Its style of architecture had bloomed rapidly and dated almost as fast. He parked in the double-width driveway and approached the huge, oval front door. Finding no pushbutton, he knocked. An older, heavier version of John Laird opened the door. "All right, what do you want?" The man sounded as harassed as he looked, with his rumpled hair, high color and heavy breathing. 'Tm looking for John Laird." "You found him. What do you want with me?" "The John Laird I know is younger. Your son, perhaps?" "No -- Christ, no! But maybe you'd better come in, at that. You might be able to help." "Help? How?" But Pearsall thought he knew. "A young man came here. He says he's my son, claims to be named John Laird. I came home this afternoon -- my wife was halfcrazy. This boy we never saw was calling her 'mother' -- and then me, 'father.' And damn it, we never saw him before -- " "How do you figure I can help?" "Sounded as if you said you knew him. If you do, maybe you can get some sense out of him. He locked himself in the bathroom and won't come out. Come on -- I'll show you the way." Pearsall was led into a large living room, past a plump, wide-eyed woman a boy about twenty and two teenaged girls -- he was introduced to none of them -- along a hall, to a door. Closed, it was -- closed, and inscrutable. Laird nodded. "He's in there." "All right." He raised his voice. "John Laird. This is Pearsall." II -'was muffled. "Thank God you're here -- someone who knows I'm real. I thought I was going crazy. Or that everybody else was." "I -- think I know how you feel, John." Pearsall grinned briefly, a ticlike twitch. "Why don't you come out now and talk it over? Let's see if any of this makes sense. All right?" "You won't let them send me away?" Pearsall thought -- he couldn't speak for the Lairdfamily. "If you can't stay here, John, you can come with me. Will that do?" "I guess so." The" door opened. Young John Laird, looking both sheepish and defiant, emerged. Pearsall shepherded the two Lairds IF to the living room, where the others sat stiffly, as though posing for an old tintype. "I'm Commander Pearsall," he said, "First officer of the ship Hawk Flight. As you may have heard, we've just returned from an eightmonth mission." He turned to the older man. "Would you introduce me?" "All right, Commander. You know my name. This is my wife, Bonita -- my son Charles -- my daughters Mildred -- " he nodded at the older girl " -- and Irene." Pearsall smiled and performed the ritual courtesies. "And now," he aid, "may I introduce this young man, who for the past eight months has served as my junior navigator? He is listed on the ship's roster as John Laird, Jr. -- of this address." "I can't believe that," Mr. Laird said. "The roster isn't classified -- I can get you a photostat if you like." Impatiently Pearsall shook his head. "But right now -- Laird, men on watch together pass the time by talking and they talk of home. Young John here has spoken often of you. He has described this house to me and many pleasant recollections of it.  "Tell me," he said, "do none of you recognize him at all?" He saw only blank stares. "Are you saying that it's some kind of delusion that he believes himself to be your son and brother?" Bonita Laird spoke, her voice low. "I have two sons: James and Charles. Two daughters: Mildred and Irene. There would have been a John, but -- " '# have two brothers," said young John Laird, breathing in gasps, as though at high altitude, "Two brothers -- James and Charles -- and a sister Mildred." He turned to the younger girl. "I don't know what you're doing here -- I don't have any sister Irene." She shrank away. He reached a hand toward her. "Oh, wait -- I'm not saying you shouldn't exist -- I won't do that to you. You're here. I don't understand it but I won't tell you not to be here, the way Dad's been telling me -- " He frowned. "I just don't know why I'm not supposed to be herethat's all. Because I live here. I've lived here all my life withall of you -- except Irene. And James was here, too -- where's my brother James?" "Your brother James," Mr. Laird began, "I mean, my son James -- was married last spring. He and his wife live north of here about forty miles, in the Horizon Hills complex." He hunched his shoulders for a, moment, let them retax again. "I don't see what this has to do with your barging in, claiming to be my son. I should know how many children we have -- " Pearsall suddenly felt pity for them all -- and some for himself. "Mrs. Laird, you said a moment ago that there would have been a son named John. Could you explain that, please?" Color flooded her cheeks. For a moment he could see the pretty girl hiding behind the armor of fat -- the ultimate disguise for beauty afraid of itself. "Mr. Pearsall -- Commander Pearsall, I mean -- it's not really any of your business, but if it will help this young man -- well, when my James was two I had a son born dead. And his name would have been John." "But James was two when I was bom," young Laird protested. "And I grew up here and we all -- you don't know me? You don't know me at all?" Five heads shook as one. Gently Pearsall said, "Don't any of you see a family resemblance -- a possible relationship? Couldn't you start as cousins or something and work up?" He knew he was pushing too hard on something he didn't fully understand, but his own needs were eating him. And some wild guesses were beginning to take shape. So he laid it on the line and hoped. "Can't you try something?" He lost. "We can't take a stranger into our home," said the elder Laird. Bonita Laird's mouth twitched, but she did not speak. Of them all, it was Irene who protested. '# wouldn't mind if he stayed," she said. She shook back her fair hair, fallen forward over one shoul der. "I like him." "Out of the question." Her father's face showed fear. Fear of what? Pearsall knew when to cut his losses. "Let's go, John." He gave the obligatory handshakes. Young Laird looked at each person in turn. He paused at Bonita but shook his head. He spoke only to Irene. "Thanks," he muttered and touched her hand briefly. Pearsall took his arm firmly and led him away. The boy's luggage was at the front door -- Pearsall picked it up and got the two of them out and safely away. In the car, before starting it, he said, "You're not insane, John. You're up against a problem that's totally new, that's all. And so am I." ,but home -- and there only if Glenna allowed it. If she did -- he supposed Laird could stay also. What effect the boy's presence IF might have he couldn't guess. To learn that the universe held other confusions, other entrapments, might help her. Driving through the night, his headlights carving a dark-walled tunnel as the road skirted a swamp, Pearsall explained his own problem. "So, to her," he finished, "I'm an impostor. I have to be -- she saw me dead." He made a wordless sound. "I suppose I should find my grave and pay my respects." "We're in the same boat, aren't we?" said Laird. "Except that your wife knows at least that she was married to you. My family simply doesn't believe I exist -- or ever did. I can't understand it -- what's happened to everybody?" "We happened to them. Otherwise they're all perfectly sane, sensible people." "Then we're what's wrong? Or has the whole world gone crazy?" "No, we're fine, John -- just fine. So far anyway. And as worlds go, this one is sane and good." "Then what is wrong?" "Don't you get it yet? Well, I'm not sure I do, either, in detail. But one thing's clear -- this perfectly good world isn't our world." "You mean this isn't Earth?" "Of course it's Earth. But -- different, somehow. Probably more so than we've realized." "You mean, my family back there -- it isn't really the one I grew up with?" "Almost, but not quite. They had a son bom dead, so they're not the same people they'd be if he had lived. The difference isn't much -- except to you, who happen to be that son. You see?" Silence for a time, then: "Yes, I think so." Then, after another brief pause: "This seems a funny thing for me to be worried about -- but do you think they'll ever accept me?" Laird's voice shook. "Eventually, I imagine, when they understand what has happened -- when they're told by someone who can speak with authority. Keep your hopes up, but be patient -- it may take a while." "I'll do that," Laird said grimly, "and thanks. But what did happen?" "I'm afraid that's the question of the century. I wish I could answer it" They were silent for the rest of the drive. An unfamiliar car was in Pearsall's driveway. He parked at the curb. He took his remaining luggage from the car and motioned for Laird to bring his, also. This time, at the door, he used his key -- once inside, luggage and all, his position would be stronger. As they went through the hall to the living room he heard conversation that broke off as they entered. Pearsall recognized the small, dark woman with Glenna. It was Glenna who spoke. "You're back, I see." Her voice was stiff and forced, close to the breaking point. "Well, maybe you can explain to Ludmilla here, where her husband is. She's been asking me -- and of course I don't know." "I don't understand," Pearsall began -- but suddenly he did understand and realized he should have foreseen the complication. Ludmilla Frantiszek rose and faced him. Her hands were clenched tightly across her chest. The heavy black braid that fell forward over her left shoulder to her waist swayed with the slow agonized shaking of her head. "Where is Miro?" Her voice was low and ragged. "What have you done with my husband, you dead man who walks?" She stared blankly at him. Pearsall tried to answer, but could say only, "Milla -- " "Aw, you know me, do you? I knew you, too. And Miro knew you. We grieved at your funeral. And then Miro was gone a long eight months with Hawk Flight . I was not here when Hawk Flight returned -- I was with my troupe in London, dancing. You remember that I am a dancer?" "Yes, Milla. And a very good one." "Yes," she nodded. "That is true -- I am. When I heard, I returned. To the port. Hawk Flight's crew was gone, scattered to reunite with families for three days. They will be back on Tuesday, the fatfaced man said." Pearsall nodded -- he knew the one she meant. "But Miro," he said, "has not come back. Instead there is you, who are dead. Tell me -- you must tell me! How can this happen?" "Milla -- Milla, I don't know. Miro was not on Hawk Flight with me. He'd broken a leg skiing and was grounded while it healed. I took his place -- he stayed at home. And somehow I have returned to a world in which you've seen me dead and Miro, not I, left on Hawk Flight as first officer. That's all I know Milla. It's not much help, but it's true." Black eyes wide under furrowed brow, she gazed at him as if trying to memorize him cell by cell. Finally she nodded. "I believe you. I don't understand all you say, but I never knew you to lie, Woody, while you were -- alive." She was trying not to cry, but could not stop her tears. "I will go now." She turned away. Pearsall moved toward her but Laird waved him back and took her arm, guiding her out. He did not return imIF mediately. Pearsall decided he was making sure she was in fit condition to drive before letting her go.  said, suddenly breaking silence. "You're not my Woody at all, are you? You're some kind of Woody Pearsall, all right, but you never saw me before today. Nor I, you. You're a close match. I can't see any differences yet -- maybe I never will. But you're simply not -- my Woody!" Tears welled -- it was Pearsall's night for weeping ladies. "Oh, I wish you were!" He passed off the thought that her wish, literally taken, would make him dead -- he knew her true meaning. "So do I, my dear," he said. "You have no idea how much I wish it." She ignored his words. "I should have known -- I did know -- when you said I'd cut my hair. Because I haven't worn it long for nearly six years. I cut it when I had the role of Helen in that play -- what was the name of it? I can't remember -- " Pearsall couldn't recall. her ever acting in any play at all. "And somehow I never got around to growing it long again. Though I should, really. But you didn't know. So you can't be my Woody, can you?" She asked the question as though it had an answer, so he gave her the best he had. "No, I'm not," he said. "And you're not quite my Glenna, either. But -- " and now for the first time he moved and touched her, took her by the shoulders to hold her facing him -- "we are each the best -- the best Woody and the best Glenna -- that either of us is ever going to find." She came to him and clung, sobbing, but by the feel of her he knew it was still no good between them. At least, he thought, she had accepted him as a friend. Ill the same bedroom that night -- Laird had the guest room -- but not the same bed. Lying awake, he heard her slow, sleeping breath. He had steeled himself to being aroused and frustrated by her nearness, but within him no Excitements stirred -- he was as much disappointed as relieved. The thought came to him that his need to establish identity was stronger than his need for sex. When on a mission he schooled himself to celibacy. Some men and women formed shipboard liaisons -- he did not. Early on he had considered the idea -- but apart from Glenna's unorthodox monogamist convictions he felt the pleasures did not compensate for the risk of jealousies and impaired morale. He took no moralistic position, but felt that as a ship's officer it was unwise for him to invite possible trouble. At home, though, his urges were strong dnd frequent, not much diminished by age. And so were Glenna's -- in the world he remembered they were well matched. He had to get away from that thought. Instead he considered what Glenna had said after Laird had returned from seeing Ludmilla Frantiszek safely on her way. "Admiral Forgues called," she had told them, just before Milla came here. Everyone from Hawk Flight is to report back to duty tomorrow morning." "Sunday?" "Yes. He said it's important." "I'm sure it is. I wonder -- " if it's really everyone , he thought, he wants there tommorow -- or only me "Wonder what, Woody?" He hadn't answered her. Anything he could have said would have sounded as paranoid as he had begun to feel. Now, lying alone as though he were on the ship and Glenna lightyears away instead of a mere few feet, he still wondered. Sleep came eventually, much later than he wished. Next morning Glenna was cheerful in an impersonal way, as she served the two men breakfast. "I'll expect you both home for dinner," she said, "so call me if you can't make it. And do let me know if you learn -- well, anything that explains anything, won't you?" "Of course, Glenna." He wanted to say more, but it was no time to crowd his luck. Besides, Laird was there. Laird looked more at peace with himself. The night's sleep must have helped. He said little, but smiled occasionally. shortcut to the Administration Building -- rather, to where he remembered it to be. The building wasn't there. In its place stood an old dilapidated warehouse. Now he remembered -- the soaring tower he had looked for and hadn't seen when he had been making his landing approach, was the new Administration building. He should have known before he had ever touched ground that this was not his world. He stopped the car and searched through memory. "What's the matter?" asked Laird. "Nothing. Well, yes -- something is, in a way. John, do you rememIF ber the Ad Building and its tower?" "Of course. Why?" "Well, this is where it was. Now it isn't. Let me think a minute. We'll have to find the old building, the one our Space Service tore down," Laird's face went blank. He blinked rapidly several times. Pearsall shook his head -- just now he couldn't afford to worry about Laird. The old building had been vacated two or three years ago -- he should be able to remember. Yes, he knew where to go. He was right. The building that he had seen razed was where it had been. He parked and used an elbow to nudge laird. "Come on, John. The admiral doesn't like to be kept waiting.'? Inside the building Pearsall said, Hawk Flight -- " at each checkpoint and was passed through to Forgue's receptionist without having to show identification. One desk removed from the admiral's presence he repeated the name and added: "Where do we go?" "You are?" The girl was blond and pretty. A blue eye, her left, that aimed slightly outward, accented her piquancy. It would be unwise of her, thought Pearsall, to correct that defect. "First Officer Pearsall," he said. And pointing a thumb at his companion, "Navigator third John Iforget-the-initial Laird. We're a little late. Where do we go, please?" "Oh -- yes, sir. The small conference room just off the admiral's office, to your right. You know it?" "Yes. Thank you." He guided Laird along. They entered the room. From his seat at the end of the long table, Forgues peered up at them. At first look his head always seemed too large for his small frame, but Pearsall was accustomed to the discrepancy and adjusted automatically. A quick count told him that he and Laird were the last to arrive. The dead, stuffy air of the drab room was heavy with anxiety. "Sorry we're late, sir," said Pearsall. "No excuses. But I think I have part of the answer to some of the questions you'll be asking. ' v "No doubt," was the dry-toned answer. "You're an intelligent man. You must have reached the same conclusions we have." "I don't understand. I thought -- " "You thought you were the only odd fish in the soup. Please find a seat, Commander -- you too, Laird -- and we'll get down to it." Confused but alert, Pearsall sat. "Let's not waste time," Forgues began. "I've heard some of your stories. I believe them. We'll get to your individual problems a little later. "About six hours after you disembarked I knew as a certainty that your ship was not the Hawk Flight we sent out eight months ago. Unfortunately, Commander Pearsall, I did not have this knowledge when I spoke to you at your home. But moments later tbe maintenance crew ran into a few problems -- some of their testing procedures wouldn't work. It took us a while to find out why, but when we did the answers told us a great deal. "Shortly before Hawk Flight left this port, the labs sent us a new set of modifications to improve control efficiency. I put crews on overtime and got the work done in time for liftoff. Ourrepair crew's problem turned out to be that on your ship these changes had not been made. We checked and found that the departure date in your log is three days earlier than our records show. It is not the same ship -- you are not the same people. There have been a number of repercussions " descent, green insect crawling along the upper edge of the admiral's collar, never quite touching his neck. Unable to look away from the little tightrope-walker, he felt akin to it -- he wanted it to survive. "We have," said Forgues, "three gross anomalies. Commander Pearsall, who was dead before Hawk Flight undertook its mission, is now returned alive to us. My congratulations, Commander. Commander Miro Frantiszek was first officer of the Hawk Flight I know -- your records show he was never aboard. And ours make no mention of Navigator Third John Laird, who is indisputably present. "Of the remaining twentytwo -- many of you have encoun tered problems of your own. If you wish to discuss any of these, now would be a good time." He looked around the table. "Prentice?" Second Officer Miles Prentice rose -- a tall man, stooped and lean -- and spoke in a low, intense voice. "I went to my a ddress -- someone else lives there. When I finally found my wife, she said we've been divorced more than three years. She's remarried and has two new children. I don't know what to do," Shaking his head, he sat down again,, Forgues looked at him but said nothing. He acknowledged a raised Jiand. "Chandri?' "I was married, too. But now I find that my wife -- I said goodbye to her only eight months ago -- has been dead nearly five years. It's insane, that's all. Or I am." "You're not," said the admiral. "Only -- misplaced." The testimony continued. "Gehring -- Lena Gehring. I was a widow with a son in boarding school, a married daughter and a grandson. Now I'm a childless spinster. I'd rather be dead." "Cheng here, second pilot. Last year my wife and I moved to a new house -- but somehow it turns out we didn't. Nothing else is much different." "Johnson. I was a bachelor, but now I seem to have a wife and two kids. I'm not complaining -- I like it." "Lightfoot. I drew good cards. My husband was a hopeless drunk -- and I do mean hopeless. Here he's been dry for the last four years." "Ramirez. I went home. It wasn't my place and never has been. My wife's folks never heard of me and shes married to somebody else. So I looked myself up in the directory. I have a wife I never saw before. It's a little scary, but I think it'll work out okay -- she's pretty nice." "Timon -- Aldred Timon. There are some minor differences but nothing serious. It doesn't bother me any." "Parelli, it says on the roster. I have a different husband but I probably would anyway by this time, even if I'd stayed home. I always seem to marry the wrong type. I think maybe this one is a little better than average." "I'm Red Sarchet, drive tuner. I live with my folks, like always. But down at the corner bar they all let on I was one of the gay guys. I'm not -- I don't have anything against them, but I'm not. I had to fight one fellow. I'm not going back there." "Gerard, communications. I didn't have anybody before and I still don't. I live in a new place. What's the difference?" "Vaille, captain. I found some problems to be worked out, but nothing insurmountable." On and on it went, all through the twenty-two. One short, fat man said only, "I pass." Looking at him, Pearsall recalled his name, Crawford, and his job, supply clerk. Nothing more came to mind, from eight months on the same ship. Poor Crawford , he thought. The consensus was almost evenly divided between those adjusting successfully to the changes and those finding them from distressing to intolerable. What could anyone do for Chandri or Gehring? Forgues muttered into the intercom -- the pretty blonde came almost immediately with a big pot and a tray of cups. As the coffee ritual began the admiral spoke again. "Your attention, please." The green insect was gone. Pearsall hadn't seen it go, didn't know whether or not it was still circumnavigating the admiral. "For what help it might be, I'll tell you as much ar I understand of what has happened. "It seems we didn't know enough about the Skip Drive. Of course the press stories, that it beats lightspeed by going through hyperspace, are a lot of horse puckie -- there's no such thing as hyperspace. But all we had to know -- in operations -- was that it works. It took us there and it brought us back. For ten years, on the shorter hauls our power sources could handle, we had no trouble. So last year when we got the Krieger power units, we pushed performance as high as we could. "Now, I had a two-hour lecture last night, by a top man from the labs. I won't take two hours to tell you, because I didn't understand that much of it. But I'll tell you the parts I did get." T HE little bug reappeared, sitting like a tiny epaulette on the admiral's left shoulder. Pearsall was glad to see it. "The trick is that space and time are quantized. If you don't know what that means, wait and ask me later. Mainly, the universe doesn't exist continuously. It pulsates -- appears and disappears at a rate much too high to measure. So when you move you do it by vanishing at one point and reappearing at the next -- normally. "Ordinarily, in moving we hit every point along the way. Skip Drive suppresses our appearances at most of those points. We beat lightspeed because it's the ins and outs that use up time and energy, not the motion itself." "Excuse me, sir." It was Captain Vaille who spoke. "Was it explained how the relativistic effects are avoided? That's one.thing I've never understood and it bothers me. "I can't give you the math for it, Captain -- " Vaille smiled and shook his head -- "but the way Dr. Kunda at the labs put it, velocity has to do with the number of appearances, not the distance between them. So at a Skip-factor of ten your theoretical limit is ten lights, not one. And of course we never push that limit -- our instruments are redlined at ten per cent time-mass variation, which we've found acceptable. "Nice, isn't it? We thought we had the universe by its short hairs. IF So we sent you out at top Skip-f actor -- well over a thousand, I believe -- and instead of coming back to where you once belonged you came here instead. "Kunda told me why. There are more worlds than one -- more than we could count, I expect. There have to be -- to explain what's happened. They run side-by-side in time and ordinarily you stay in your own rut -- no way to get out of it. But on high Skip-factor, with the checkpoints fewer and farther between, so to speak, you can drift into a new and different set of probabilities. The higher and longer you Skip the farther you may drift from the world you know. That's why you're here instead of there. "And you can't get back." "Huh?" "Why?" "Why not?" Several people were speaking at once. Pearsall remained quiet. And the little green insect had vanished again. "You could try," said Forgues. "go out again and take your chances. But you'd probably find a set of circumstances even more strange to you. effects on any one trip appear to be random, but may well be cumulative. You might come closer to your original world -- then again, you might not. The odds aren't necessarily favorable. In fact, indications point to the contrary." "Then where do we stand?" someone demanded. "What are we supposed to do?" "I don't know," Forgues said. His voice was flat, deliberate. "When I do. I'll be sure to inform you." Pearsall spotted his small green friend. It had flown, while he wasn't looking, to a window ledge. He felt himself released from an anxiety he hadn't consciously noticed. "Sir," he said, "is there anything more for us to do here, now? Or may we leave?" As Forgues began to answer, the door opened. The fey-eyed receptionist failed to block the entrance of the aide Pearsall had seen on his picturephone. The chubby man spoke. "Admiral, sir, a ship has landed." Pearsall thought Forgues would explode into harangue, but he said, level-toned, "Thank you, Abbott, for the information. But ships land here quite often, I believe. This is an important conference. Why did you interrupt it?" "Sir, I thought you might want to know immediately about this particular landing. The ship is Hawk Flight IV lence. "Is it ours this time?" "It seems to be -- or as near as makes no difference. At least the roster checks out. And the time of departure." Forgues sighed. "My friends, it seems we have a whole new ball game. I have no idea how to cope with it. I welcome any suggestions." "Just a minute, sir," said Pearsall. He turned to the chubby newsbearer. "Are all crew members alive and well?" "Yes, they are," the man said. "Why?" "Excuse me, Admiral." Without waiting for a response, Pearsall walked into the receptionist's office, closing the door gently. "May I use your phone?" The girl nodded. He punched the remembered number -- after a few seconds a picture lighted. The woman's eyes were swollen but dry. Her black mass of hair swung loose. Her right hand held a brush. "Milla," he said. "The other Hawk Flight has landed, the one that belongs here. Miro has come home." The brush dropped unnoticed. Her eyes filled. She smiled like a very young child seeing the antics of clowns. "Miro? Miro! Oh, how wonderful! You have just learned?" "About thirty seconds ago. I called you, first thing." "Oh, thank you. Woody -- thank you! You have seen him?" "Not yet. But all crew members are reported alive and well." "Shall I come there?" "I -- I don't know Milla. Does Miro usually call from the port, when he lands?" "Yes. Always." "Then I'm sure he will now, as soon as he can. Why don't you wait for his call, then decide between you where to meet?" "Yes, that is best. Though waiting will be very hard." "Yes, Milla -- I know. But it's not for long now." My God , he thought -- she looks ten years younger. "Look, Milla -- I'd better get off this line so Miro can get through to you as soon as he has the chance. And I'm very happy for you." "Yes. Thank you. I hope also for your happiness. And now, goodbye." Shutting off the phone, Pearsall thanked the receptionist for its use and returned to the conference room. It stank of desperation. "Has anything been decided?" he said. "Where the hell have you been, Pearsall?" Forgues snapped. "Telling Ludmilla Frantiszek IF she has her husband back, sir. I thought somebody should." "Oh, yes -- yes, of course! Sorry, Pearsall. Glad you thought of it." "It's all right, sir. Does anyone know what comes next?" "Not so you'd notice it. The other crew should be through medical check before much longer. I'll have to talk to them, explain the situation -- I suppose they've heard a garbled version from someone and are feeling anxious, to say the least." Forgues scowled. "I should have thought of that and issued instructions." "When?" asked Pearsall. "Begging your pardon, but none of us anticipated this landing until it happened -- and then the first people to talk with the ship would naturally let out the whole story." "What?" The admiral's preoccupation was evident. "Oh, yes, you're right." He rapped on the table for the group's attention. "Well, I'd better give the situation readout as I see it." He looked around at all of them. "For some of you this new development must be one blow too many. Having to readjust to living someone else's life was bad enough, terrible in some cases. And now the someone else has come to take up his or her own life and you must live with that, too:" He sighed and shook his head "One thing is clear -- your careers are secure. You're all competent people in your own right. Despite the fact that someone else now shares your name there will be a place for you. We'll find a wy to straighten out the records. You needn't worry about any of that. I'll take care of it." He frowned. "Now, your personal lives. Each case will need its own unique solution, I expect. Some of you may have to give up your families -- and no help for it. Or your alter-ego may want out of his current life situation and bow out in your favor -- it's not impossible, but don't count on it, Or some of you -- and your doubles and. your families, might agree to share your lives -- multiple marriages aren't common, but they are legal. And it could be arranged for any pair of doubles to ship out alternately, if that would help. The service will make counseling available to any who feel the need for it. Don't hesitate to ask. I'll see that the red tape is bypassed." Forgues looked at his watch. "Please remain here while I speak to the other crew. I'll arrange for lunch to be brought in. Then I want to be present at the first meeting of each pair of doubles, in privacy -- maybe I can help you accept each other's existence a little more easily. "I realize the procedure will be time-consuming, but at the moment I can't think of a better one. Your welfare is my responsibility and I intend to discharge that responsibility as best I can. That's all I have to say at this time. I'll have somebody hustle that lunch for you." "Sir," said Pearsall. "Laird and I have no doubles to meet. But we do have personal problems of our own, each of us. May we have your permission to leave now?" "What? Oh, yes. And Frantiszek, in the other crew. I'll call and have him released if Abbott hasn't thought to do so -- which I doubt." The admiral turned to leave. As Pearsall and Laird followed him out, they paused to wave restrained goodbyes. In a way Pearsall felt like a deserter -- but what more could he do here? He hurried to catch up with Forgues. "When do you want us back here, sir?" "Tomorrow morning. No, make it after lunch. I may be up most of the night with those twenty-two pairs of doppelgangers -- and I'll need some sleep." They parted. Outside, Pearsall noticed a new gouge along the. side of the drab little rental car. Some things never change, he thought -- he remembered his grandfather complaining about "damned idiots in parking lots." And throughout most of his childhood young Elwood thought "idiots" were strange creatures who lurked in parking lots and lived only to ravage the cars of innocent grandfathers. The vagrant memory eased his tension. He found himself smiling. T HE morning drive had been hectic. Homeward bound he drove more leisurely, wondering what he could do or say to help his cause with Glenna. Not much, he decided -- she had all the pieces and would have to put them together herself. Neither he nor Laird spoke during the drive. He didn't know what the boy was thinking and, just then, he didn't want to know. He'd think about Laird's problem later and help if he could. Before they reached home he was sweating -- the morning had been cool, but now it was past noon and Indian-summer hot. He'd have to take time, he thought, to turn in this rental contraption and get his own car out of storage. Glenna greeted the two men cheerfully enough. She wore lightweight halter and x briefs in a colorful print pattern. Pearsall went straight to the refrigerator and was pleased to find a pitcher of daiquiris cooling, as in earlier, happier IF times. He took a little in a glass and sipped it, before taking a cool shower and changing into shorts and sandals. Glenna, when he rejoined her, was setting out cold cuts and salad. The sound of running water from the basement shower indicated that Laird was also cooling off. Pearsall poured himself a full glass from the pitcher and sipped from it between bites of cheese, liverwurst, salad and crackers. He kept the silence until she broke it. "Woody -- Laird told me what happened." "That Hawk Flight came back? The one that belongs here?" "" "Yes. Why didn't you tell me? And what does it mean? What happens now?" "I wanted us to take our time talking about it. And I needed that cold shower first. Mind?" She shook her head. "Well, first it means that most of my crew have doubles and may be excess baggage on this world." He summarized Forgues' conclusions, then added: "Tomorrow, after he's talked with all the pairs, we'll have a better idea of how they're reacting. It's not going to be easy for most, I'm afraid." She was rubbing a knuckle alongside her nose, looking steadily over it. "But, then Miro Frantiszek is back. Does Milla know?" "I called her immediately, as soon as we heard." "Yes -- you would. You were always thoughtful -- in my world." He had to speak. "It seemed that I -- that my Hawk Flight -- ever since we landed, had been doing nothing but make people unhappy. I guess I jumped at the chance to make somebody happy for a change. I think it did me as much good as it did Milla." He touched his cold glass to his right ear -- the chill was refreshing. Changing hands, he gave the other ear the same treatment and grinned at Glenna. She began to smile back at him. The door chime interrupted. "I'll get it." She rose and went to the door. From where he sat, Pearsall couldn't see whom she greeted. "Yes, he's here. Please come in." What did they want with him now? But into the room Glenna ushered Bonita and Irene Laird. seated, offered and served drinks, returned to his own chair. The two Lairds weren't talking, so Pearsall took the plunge. "You're here to see John? He should be coming soon. He's been showering, but the water stopped running a minute ago." Mrs. Laird leaned forward. "The problem was my husband. yiu sec -- not me. This thing is like a superstition or something with him. I wouldn't have turned young John away -- he needed us. I could see that." She rubbed her hands together. "But my husband -- he's John too, of course; I suppose Fd get used to that -- he wouldn't have it. Charles and Mildred never could stand up to him any more than I can, except just once in a while. James and Irene have all the family spunk." She smiled tentatively and fell silent. "Yes, Mrs. Laird?" said Pearsall. "Go on." "Well. After you left Irene wouldn't let it go. She just kept on -- didn't you, honey?" The girl blushed and nodded. "I agreed with her that we should have taken the boy in, .but John -- my John -- never listens to me unless I throw a fit and a set of dishes. Well -- not quite that bad, really. Usually things aren't important enough and I let him have his way. This time, though, I stood with Irene. Any time she ran out of steam I came in for her. But still my John wouldn't have it." Now she sat upright. "Then James called on the phone. It was late by then. He'd seen the news about Hawk Flight and the John Laird who wasn't on the records. They showed a picture of him and told his address on v the ship's books -- our address. So James J called us, even that late." I "What did he say?" If he could I keep her talking, Pearsall thought, J sooner or later she'd get to the # point. Jji "He asked had we seen the news? J My John said we'd seen more than  that -- the man had come here  rs saying we're his family. James I asked, well, where is he? John said he'd sent him packing. And James called his father some names -- very disrespectful, James was." Pearsall raised his glass to hide a grin. "And then what happened?" "James said he didn't  under-r stancP it, but when he saw young John's picture his spine went cold. That he knew he couldn't ever have seen him before, but he felt he recognized him. Then he said if We didn't take the boy in, he would." "And I said, good for them." Irene spoke for the first time. Her voice was low and clear. "And I asked James did they have room 'j for me, too?" "That's right, honey -- you did. And right there I had enough. T love my John, but sometimes -- I shouldn't say" it, though it's true -- he's a pigheaded fool! I'd carried a son nine months, I said, and lost him -- a woman never gets over that. Now somehow I had a chance to get him back alive and I'd be eternally damned if anyone IF Science fictions premier magazine goes into monthly orbit... to doubleyour reading pleasure! Not since his epic, #: A Space Odyssey, has Clarke created a story of such scope and suspense -- as an unidentified mass hurtles toward Earth, bearing within it the seeds of a strange new world. Don't miss the world premiere of Rendezvous with Rama. The science fiction event of this or any year. Starting this September in much new fiction by modem masters like Anderson, Asimov, Bloch, Bradbury, Clarke, del Rey, Heinlein, Pohl, Siiverberg, Sturgeon, Van Vogt. ly -- doubling the. number of issues it will deliver each year to science fiction connoisseurs . like you! was going to take that chance away from me! We argued late, to daylight -- didn't get up until noon today. John missed work, first day in years. But he finally agreed last night and stands by it today. He still complains a little but that's just show -- he does hate to lose an argument. So here we are, Irene and I -- if the boy still wants anything to do with us." Pearsall walked back along the hall to the basement door across from the kitchen. He shouted down the stairs. "Laird. John Laird, get your lazy carcass up here. You're going home." "Yes, I know." Coming from the kitchen, behind Pearsall, the voice sounded thick, as though issuing from a constricted throat. "I heard." r T HE Lairds, all three, had gone. Pearsall felt wrung out. Into a short glass he poured bourbon over ice -- daiquiris were all well and good, but at the moment he wanted a little more bite. "Well, that's two happy endings today." His voice and smile were gentle. "Care to try for three?" Glenna stiffened noticeably. "Woody, I can't take that -- not just now. Couldn't you have waited? I was coming to like you -- I do like you -- but now you've brought it all back. That you're not my real husband." "Your real husband is dead." Maybe a little shock treatment would work. "You saw him dead -- you said so. Now tell me -- hadn't you ever thought of remarrying? Were you going to waste the rest of your life mooning over a rotting corpse?" She shrank visibly into herself. Her face paled. He could see the light dusting of freckles normally masked by her healthy coloring. "I -- I might have remarried. I had no one in mind, but of course I've thought of it. But not like this -- you're asking me simply to let you move in here in place of my Woody. That's not remarriage." She shook her head. "You know my beliefs, my monogamist upbringing. You accepted all that when you married me. Didn't you?" He overlooked the gaps in her logic. Yes, he thought, he'd accepted her views -- perhaps more thoroughly than she knew. All right, he'd play it her way. "Well, then Glenna. will you marry me?" "No, I won't." Instant, levelvoiced anger. "You're making fun of me." He took a deep breath and exhaled carefully, stifling the words that would estrange her beyond reIF call. In his mind he rephrased what he would have to say next -- win or lose. "Glenna -- isn't this all a bit pretentious? I mean, it's not as though there had never been anyone else for you -- besides the Woody who is dead." "What do you mean?" Gripping the arms of her chair, she started to rise. "Of course there has been no one else. I came to you a virgin -- don't you believe that now?" "You are surely mixing up your Woodys, now aren't you? Yes -- certainly I believe it. That's not what I'm talking about." "Then just what are you talking about?" He sighed. "All right. I'd never intended to throw it up to you -- never thought I'd have to -- but we both know you broke your own special rules after I had come to accept them. I knew about you and Piers Carlton when he was directing the Little Theater in Spring Harbor." She stood frozen, mute -- he had to go on. "It doesn't matter now, Glenna. After the miscarriage I could understand -- you needed something I couldn't give you. And I judged that Carlton wasn't the sort who would ever be unkind to you. So Pendured it and never held it against you -- until now, when you turn me away." Wide-eyed, she shook her head. "But I didn't, Woody -- I didn't! No, listen -- let me talk. I thought of it, yes -- I played around with the idea. In a way it fascinated me. You're right -- I needed something. We had had all those years of hoping -- and finally I was pregnant. And then the miscarriage and the doctor said I could never have the child I'd come so close to having. I think I was a little crazy, Woody, for a while. And I did flirt with Piers Carlton -- that's true. But he got me interested in the theater, instead. So ' then I found what I needed -- but on the stage, not on the casting couch." It was Pearsall's turn to shake his head. "Glenna, don't bother to lie to me." "Lie? I'm not lying! Why should I lie to a man I'm rejecting?" "I have no idea. But, you see -- I caught you. I came home and found you together on the bed. You didn't see or hear me -- I went out again and stayed away until he was gone. Afterward, until I was sure it was over, I took care to give fair warning of my comings and goings and to make it easy for you to find excuses to meet him." She was frowning, intent. "Why would you do that?"-sure. I suppose -- I thought you'd be having enough problems with guilt without my piling shame on top of it." He was getting off the point -- oh, yes! "But another thing, Glenna -- you were never in a play or on the stage in your life. Why do you try to tell me such things?" She stared at him silently. Then she laughed -- and laughed and' laughed. Finally she stopped and wiped her eyes. "Oh, Woody! To paraphrase you -- you're mixing up your Glennas. Your Glenna may have done all you say -- since you say it I'll believe you. But I didn't. And I did act on the stage. I have my keepsakes, the theater programs. Would you like to see them?" He was trying to comprehend, to absorb what she bad said. "I'd like to later, yes. But now I'll take your word for them, though what you tell me is hard to understand. But I'm still interested in only one thing -- where do we stand, you and I?" A vertical crease formed and deepened between her brows. "Separately, I'm afraid." She paused. "You can sleep in the guest room tonight -- now that Laird has gone -- but tomorrow you'd better go somewhere else. Or I'll leave if you insist. I need to be apart from you." "Why?" "Because we do mix up our Woodys and our Glennas. You think you know me, but you don't. And every time I come to feel that. I know you I find I don't, not at all. How many more pitfalls are there in our separate pasts that we'd stumble into if we tried to make a future together? I don't know. And I'm afraid to find out." Frustration bit at his nerves and muscles like electric shock, bringing him perilously near the edge of violence. He took a deep breath. Then, forcing himself to sit still while looking at his not-wife, he said, "All right. I'll leave in the morning. I'll take my luggage and I won't be back. You can ship the rest of my stuff -- anything that's still around here -- when I have a place for it. I'll let you know and pay the freight. This place is yours. It was silly, Glenna, for you to offer to move out." "No. It's only legally mine. You have as much right to everything as I do." "But not to you?" "No -- not to me." There was nothing he could say. He looked at his watch -- it was mid-afternoon. Suddenly he couldn't face staying in this house through all the hours until dawn. He rose to his feet. "I might as well gather my travel gear and go now, Glenna." IF She stood, also. "What do you plan to do?" "Ship out again, I suppose." He could still muster a grin. "Next time I may come-back to a world I'm better suited to." He was ready to leave in a few minutes. Awkwardly, encumbered by his three pieces of luggage, he paused in the living room. Silent and withdrawn, she looked up at him but did not speak. He made no move to set down the luggage or to touch her. "Goodbye, Glenna." When she made no answer he started to move away. Then she said, "Goodbye, Woody -- " and looked away again. Outside, he stowed his gear in the car. He looked up at the broken chimney that someone else would have to repair. Then he slid under the wheel and drove toward the city. He registered at a hotel near the spaceport. He could have taken quarters at the port itself, but he didn't yet feel up to mingling with service personnel. He needed to be alone. He had dinner, but didn't eat much. He bought a book but, back in his room, read very little. He had a bottle, also, but drank sparingly. He went to bed early. It was the longest night he'd ever known. heavy-eyed. A shower helped and the automatic routine of morning soothed him. He rummaged for clean clothes -- in some cases he was down to his last item. Some things were missing. Glenna must have laundered them, he thought and had forgotten to tell him. He dressed as best he could. In the hotel's restaurant he had breakfast -- steak and eggs, witty more black coffee than his nerves needed. Outside he felt the sun's warmth, though it shone vaguely through ground haze. Two blocks away he found a store that carried clothing. He bought a few things he needed. He walked back to the hotel, got his duffel together and checked out. Through mists that lessened as the sun burned them away, he drove to the port. He registered for quarters and moved his luggage into a clean, featureless cubicle. He placed his shaving kit and some other trivia on the dresser top to identify the room for him next time he entered it. He looked at his watch: #. The Administration Building was less than two miles away -- it would make a nice walk, he decided, and headed in that direction. At # hours, wide-awake now but not overheated, he approached ii Admiral Forgues' office. He rated a smile from the receptionist with the entrancingly off-track eye. She wore an electric-blue dress. With her pale skin and hair it made her look like a child playing grownup. Pearsall liked the effect -- momentarily he wished he could shed half his birthdays. Through the thin office door the admiral's telephone voice rumbled unmistakably. Pearsall raised his eyebrows toward the sound. The girl nodded and he entered the admiral's presence just as Forgues said, "Well, do it, then," and shut off the phone. "Morning, Pearsall. You're here early." "Yes sir. I'm anxious about some of our people and wondered how the interviews came out. If you're not busy -- " "Not especially. Most of the talks went faster than I'd expected. I got almost enough sleep -- as much as I usually get, anyway." "Congratulations, sir." "The situation is not as bad as I feared, Pearsall. To begin with, at Captain Vaille's suggestion I had as many spouses and other family members brought here as I could reach on short notice. I included them iathe interviews once the initial meetings were over. I think their presence helped a great deal in a number of cases. "Vaille himself was no trouble -- in either of his identities. When the two met, one said, "Do you suppose our wife will agree that she can't have too much of a good thing?' They both laughed -- 'thea Mrs. Vaille came in. At first it bothered her that she couldn't tell them apart, so your Vaille took scissors and trimmed his mustache short. Then she re laxed and rapport between the three was good. In fact, I prevailed upon them to stay for the rest of the interviews and I think their example was of help to others who were less secure." "Yes, sir -- that's the captain, all right. He doesn't talk much, stays out of the limelight -- but he's never at a loss." "True. Well, then, not to bog you dowrf with details -- eight other triangular households are launched successfully, including three with the wife duplicated. In six cases your shipmate was displaced by his or her twin and in three the other crewman was displaced. Leaving -- let me see -- " he referred to a scribbled list -- "four pairs of 'twins' who, forgone reason or another, are quite adrift in this world. So we have seventeen who are effectively 'displaced persons.' I hope we can find some way to help them." Forgues scowled. "No, I forgot -- make that sixteen. Your IF version of Lena Gehring killed herself during the night. I'm sorry -- did you know her well?" Shaking his head, Pearsall felt a pang. He hadn't known her at all. If he had, could he have helped? "But you'd better make it seventeen again, sir," he said. "I qualify." "Oh?" Forgues raised his eyebrows, started to speak, but shook his head and began again? "Sorry to hear that. And how about young Laird?" "He'll be all right. The family decided to give him a try." "Good. And Frantiszek's in safe harbor, too. The only problem is that I can't reach him -- he's disconnected his phone." Pearsall laughed. "I can't say I blame her." "What? Oh, yes -- of course. Well, that's the wrapup. Unfortunately I can't do much about the loose ends just now -- they've saddled me with another insoluble problem." "Another, sir?" "The courier ships -- were those on the boards in your world before you left?" "Hmmm -- yes, sir. Little twoperson cans, weren't they? With Skip-factors into five or six figures -- the idea was to provide faster communications between here and the colonies. And expedite the high-priority small cargo." "That's right. Well, the ships are built -- almost ready to deliver. We put a lot of money into that project. And now' we can't use the damned things!" "Can't use them? Oh, of course -- I see." "Yes. Who'll pilot a ship that can't come home again? And what good are messages to an alternate world?" After a moment, Pearsall did see. Oh, God, how he saw! "Sir -- I think -- your two problems solve each other!" "How's that? What do you mean?" "The difference between one world and another may be important to individuals, sir, but on the larger scale -- politics, economics, commerce -- it would be minor, even unnotioeable. Every version of Harper's Touchdown is going to need new counter-agents against the cyclic insect mutations, for instance. And -- well, draw your own examples, sir -- you have more data on the colonies than I do. And communications dealing with overall problems rather than individual ones will still be valid -- especially if the first messages explain the multiple-world concept, to alert everyone to be on the lookout for discrepancies. "If our thinking is careful, 'sir, the courier ships can do almost exactly the job they were planned for." "But who will run them?" "I will, for one -- and probably most of your other displaced persons will volunteer. You see -- it's our only chance to find a world we can live in." "But, Pearsall -- you know how little chance you have of finding what you have lost." "Yes, sir -- I do know. But, what about a woHd in which I have no illusory ties that don't really work? Where I never met Glenna and never will? In a world like that I could feel free to make a new start. Here I can't." For a time Forgues was silent. Then: "Yes -- I see. But how do we run a courier system with seventeen people -- seventeen who will work at it only until they find a place to call home?" "How many other ships -- after Hawk Flight -- went out long-haul at high Skip-factor and that aren't back yet? And from how many worlds? I'm afraid our seventeen are only the first of many. And think of this, too -- the possibilities of exchange of information between worlds. It will be random, but over the long haul the law of averages will make it work. Too, you'll find people attracted to the program for the adventure of it. Younger men particularly." "Hmm -- it might work. It just might, at that. For a time at least, until someone comes up with a better idea." He paused. "Pearsall, before you go looking for yout better world I want you to help me get this thing organized." He stood. "Now let's get on with our next conference. At least, thanks to you, I have something to say there -- besides a lot of platitudes." sall almost felt good. It wasn't every day, he thought, that a mere commander heard two sets of problems from an admiral and handed him the answer to both -- on a platter, with an apple in its mouth. Yes, he felt almost good. The cute cockeyed blonde smiled up at him as he passed her desk. He returned the smile absently and continued in the admiral's wake, but she called after him. "Commander Pearsall?" He turned. "I have a message for you -- please call your wife. You may use this phone if you like." He called to the departing admiral. "Sir? Excuse me -- I'll be along shortly." Forgues waved assent. What, thought Pearsall, could Glenna possibly have to say to him now? It had all been said. What further excuses, rationalizations, could she offer? He punched out IF the number and waited until the screen lit.  "Woody?" Her robe hung awry. Her hair was tousled. "More or less," he answered. "What do you want?" "I have to ask you something. After -- after Carlton, were you and your Glenna happy together?" He thought about it. "Yes, I think we were." "You were able to forgive her? You didn't resent what had happened?" "Of course I resented it -- at first. Then I accepted it, and after that it didn't count any more either way -- it was over and done with. But why do you ask? What difference does it make?" "I couldn't sleep last night for thinking. My Woody -- he was kind, like you, but not easily forgiving -- I don't think he could have done what you did. That may be why I -- didn't , after all -- you see? For I might have lost him. Do you understand?" "No, Glenna. I don't think I do. What do you mean?" "I mean, come home. Woody! You were right -- we're the best Woody and Glenna we can find. Maybe an improvement on the originals. We can try, anyway!" At first he couldn't breathe -- and then he could. "Yes, Glenna. I may be a little late for dinner, but I'll surely be there." Her smiling lips quivered. "I can wait," she said and on the screen the picture died. For a moment he stood still, his mind worlds away. His own Glenna -- there had never been any real chance of his finding his way back to her, but this decision made the separation final. So she was widowed. But this Glenna had survived widowhood. How many worlds? How many Woody s and Gleonas -- some with the right mates, some with the wrong? Some with none and maybe some Avith two. But for him and her, here -- he shook his head and came back to one framework of time and space. The blonde looked quizzically at him, but Pearsall merely winked at her as he left. In the conference room a discussion was under way Unceremoniously, he cut into it. "Excuseme, Admiral," he said. "Your displaced-persons roster -- you'll' have to cut it back to sixteen." Forgues' raised eyebrows wavered between surprise and annoyance at the interruption -- then he grinned. Pearsall smiled back. "I'll be glad to help initiate the courier program, sir," he said, "but I'm afraid I can't ride in it. I'm taking no, chances of losing this world of yours. I seem to have found a home here."  Sure , the Eater was always hungry. But so were the poor things it devoured! I T HE call came to Red Spine and to the others of his shelter cluster as they rested deep in the cool corridors, insulated by many thicknesses of sand and soil from the harsh radiation of the blazing sun. It was the normal time of repose. But the call came and Red Spine and his fellows responded. Help was needed, help to save life. And life was sacred. "The information is not good," Red Spine projected. "Great masses of rock have closed the portals and smashed the corridors. Many have ceased to live." Red Spine spoke from his mind, from his thought centers. Since his projection was open, it was detected by the many canceroids that formed the long line of slowly spinning beings that stretched out across the shimmering desert. "It has always been a poor location for a shelter cluster," Yellow Stripe said. "The Scaling Hills have not been called the Scaling Hills for nothing." "The mountains shook." Purple Fringe's thought pulse came from far up near the head of the column. "This has not happened for many molts. There are projections of many beings in pain. I fear that there will be much food for the Eater." "It, at least, will welcome tragedy," Red Spine murmured. "To satisfy it becomes ever harder. Sometimes I wonder -- " he left the thought unfinished. There was no response up and down the moving line. He knew that all had detected and had responded, but their thoughts were shielded. It was always so when anyone spoke of the Eater. In his life span Red Spine had never seen so much death. Canceroids from shelter clusters all along the desert's edge toiled together to remove the rock, to dig under the great slabs that could not be moved, a cold, steady, passionless effort to free the unfortunate victims of the shaking land. Yellow Stripe had observed truly. It had not been a good place for a shelter cluster. As the smashed bodies were removed, often piecemeal, they were laid aside neatly, in tidy piles. The piles, in turn, were steadily diminished by those who had elected to serve as bearers. Each individual did what seemed most to need doing, so there was order, though no being directed. Thus another line wound back across the desert toward the highpeaked, disklike hill in the distance that was not a hill at all. There was communication. Meaningful patterns pulsed from thought center to thought center. Such was conversation as canceroids knew it, soundless, concise. And in every reception center another projection throbbed and hummed, dully, monotonously. None answered it. It could not be answered by speech. It could only be interrupted or stilled by the carriers of the pieces of broken bodies. "Food! Food! Food!" The irritating, endless projection of the Eater was a part of canceroid life. None could remember when it had not been there... To feed the Eater was a responsibility of every canceroid. None contested it. None challenged it. It had always been so. peaked carapace, a sturdy disk ten feet in diameter, thick and resistant, was balanced on sixteen pairs of armored walking appendages. His cold stalked eyes peered from under heavy chitinous sheaths. He enjdyed his strength. Others dug sand. Still others carefully moved the living bodies as they were freed. If there was no vital hurt these would be removed to the corridors and repose chamIF bers of other shelter clusters. There they would sit and be fed by their hosts until they had regenerated all that had been injured or lost. The ruined shelter cluster would be dug and built again, with symbionts donated from other communities, but next time it would not be located where the mountains could fall on it. Cleanly, neatly, every scrap of broken body, every cast appendage, even the fragments of shattered carapaces were gathered up. All went to feed the Eater. There could be no wasting of biomass. It was becoming precious. But this time, at least, it was abundant. The Eater had bodies and more bodies, as many as even its capacious gut could welcome and digest. And after two days the telepathic mumble of its incessant food call slowly subsided and became still. "The Eater is satisfied," Blue Dot projected. "I do not ever remember this happing before. This is good." "I am from an I earlier hatching than you," Red Spine said. "I remember an earlier time. And it is not good." "How can it not be good? The flesh is dead. Only life is sacred. If the Eater is filled, we do not have to feed it. To me, that is very good." "Watch. If I am wrong, I will correct my statement. When the Eater calls for food again, life will be harder. Watch." With all the food, the vast mound that was the Eater became torpid. In the memory of the oldest canceroid it had never walked, for its nourishment was suppliedat its mouth opening and its wastes were removed from behind it. But now, under its thick and radiation-scarred carapace, on which lichens and sponge masses grew tall and dense, changes were taking place. Its incredible expanses of tissue filled with fluids -- it writhed and shifted for half a day. Then the whole great skeleton ripped asunder. A red, pulsing, monstrous thing crept feebly from it, pulling limp appendages from the rigid cylinders that had protected them. It dragged itself clear of the vast skeleton, inching, almost flowing along, then lay inert, cringing and shuddering in the hard radiaBut this was something that happened. To the monstrosity it was normal. It was a creature of the radiation and could tolerate it. It did not die. formed over the acres of shifting, rippling flesh, thickening and darkening, becoming more and more the color of the expanse of sand around it. Its appendanges stiffened as armor sheathed them. Around the great dome of its body they then reached outward, groping, huge pincers clashing. They found what they searched for. The discarded skeleton, a great split crumpled mass, was seized and slowly dragged to where the creature's staring stalked eyes could study it. Massive chelae pulled it to the mouth opening, wide palps savored it and for hours the splintering crunch of its mandibles sounded as it devoured its previous covering to the last morsel. Then it settled itself ponderously into the sand, drawing in the many pairs oT appendages and burying them deep. The carapace had finished its hardening. Ridges ran from its edge to the high peak of its center, like rain furrows from the top of a cone-shaped hill. Its eyestalks drew back under their heavy protective overhangs. It sat, quiescent, thirty thousand times the size of any canceroid that fed it. It could have been carved from the stone of the nearby hills. No watcher would have suspected it to be alive. The sponge clusters and crust-like life forms invaded and began to grow again, camouflaging the new carapace. The Eater lay in a deep stupor, maturing its tissues, consolidating the increase in size that came with every shedding. When the outcry, which was not sound and which only a canceroid could detect, began again, it would be stronger, more insistent than ever before. "The Eater has molted and now it does not call for food." Knobbed Claw exuded pleasure. "This is a marvelous thing. Perhaps it will not need to eat again for many starshines." His pulse of relief was reinforced from many thought centers and Red Spine, who knew better, shielded what was in his mind. They would know soon enough. And all this happened only days before the Invader ship came in.  ly, an enormous glittering cylinder, featureless, having no openings and no appendages. There was nothing to show why it should fly through the light atmosphere of Cancerol as though it were a flutterby. x But fly it did without effort, cruising low over the wide stretches of open country, swinging with silent ease over the piled masses of the Scaling Hills. IF Red Spine watched it. Flattened in the sand, his appendages drawn under him, his eyestalks extruded, he stared with a cold intelligent wonder. For Red Spine had speculated on things such as this. But his speculations had never included such size, such implications of advanced competence. He had no' basis for the concept of a ship. On Cancerol all beings were their own transportation. So he thought that the Invader ship was a living thing and down in his cold consciousness a fear began and grew. "If it must feed," he thought, "it will require living things. When we feed ourselves and keep the Eater satisfied, not much remains. Therefore it will eat -- us!" Canceroids were not prone to panic, but Red Spine felt unaccustomed agitation when the strange object finally drifted down. It came to rest on the stretch of open sand where the members of Red Spine's shelter cluster always played at pebble tag. Only a few minutes' journey away, sloping under the nearest hill, was the wide, low main entrance of the shelter. As it happened, not many members of the cluster were abroad when the great cylinder touched down. It was the time of rest. Most were in repose in the cool dark chambers of the shelter. When the sun Cancer was hidden, when the radiation dropped, this was their normal time of activity. They could tolerate the savage sunshine, but they did not require it. The day was the time of the sponge masses, the green and red and yellow producer beings that dotted the sandy plains and clung even to the raw faces of the vertical cliffs. They reveled in the sun. While it shone they grew, sucking moisture from the dry air and from deep in the soil, building succulent masses of tissue that formed the food base of the planet. Not only the canceroids, but a wealth of other life preyed on and continually pruned the ever-growing mounds. More often than most of his fellows Red Spine prowled in the bright radiation. He was concerned with the speed at which the sponge beings grew, with the amount of food for canceroids that they produced. He watched the other forms that fed on the sponges. These, too, could be eaten by canceroids, but only the body parts that could be regenerated. On Cancerol there was one law and all things respected it. Life must not be destroyed. So Red Spine watched the invader land. He was appalled by its bigness and deeply concerned that it might not respect the law. For how could it know? Why should it care? It was an unbelievable shape and greater in length even than the Eater, which lay like a cone-shaped hill a short run away. Red Spine settled deeper into the sand, his stalked eyes glittering happened. A hole opened in the side of the Invader. Out of the hole small beings swarmed, beings unlike anything ever seen on Cancerol. They were white, shiny white, bouncing back the sunlight. They had appendages, but only two pairs, placed at opposite ends of the long bodies. One pair they used for locomotion, the other they waved about in random patterns, or used to hold what seemed to be artifacts. A large round head sat atop the body column. One glistening eye covered half the head, and always faced in the direction of the creature's locomotion. Red Spine understood. It was a hard thing to grasp, but he dealt with facts, and there was no doubting the evidence of his eyes. The Invader was an artifact. It was a made thing. Presumably the beings spewing out of it had made it, used it for shelter and locomotion, used it to bring them out from the blue mystery of space. Red Spine was well camouflaged. The rippling colors that could flow along his carapace ridges were extinguished. His appendages were buried. He could have been simply a symmetrical boulder lying among the stones that were scattered everywhere. But they found him quickly and unerringly. II ing on their single pairs of walking appendages. They held out small objects with their holding chelae. And they communicated continually -- by sound! Primitive. Still, Red Spine knew that these beings were not primitive. They were different. And probably they were danger. How, in what fashion, he did not know. His thought centers grappled coldly with the problem. And promptly he decided what he would do. The ring of white figures widened when he rose slowly and majestically from the sand, standing high on his sixteen pairs of appendages. Every spine that stippled his high-crowned carapace, far greater in diameter than the height of the tallest alien, glowed with a ruby light. He extruded his eyes to the extreme IF length of their stalks, folded his palps decorously over his mouth opening. Then, with dignity, he flashed the peace sign with his cold light. The beings teetered backward swiftly and a babble of sound came from them. They held out long objects in their holding chelae, cylinders with the ends pointing at him. The high sharp noises were not intelligible, but their meaning was plain, just the same. They were fear noises. Somehow, they had misunderstood the signs of friendship. The cylinders were menace. Red Spine was incapable of sound. He could communicate only with the awareness waves of his kind and with these beings he felt that they would be useless. Still he tried. "Do not panic," he projected. "We are different, but that is no cause for fear." And because courtesy required it he again flashed the peace sign. The sounds how came from one being, while the others held out the cylinders. "Easy does it," the being said. "No radiation in that flash. It's as cold as firefly light. That thing is saying something." "Yeah," another vocalized. "Get off my world or I'll blast you! That's what it's saying." There was rumbling sound from the first being. "Good old Pegleg! Your faith, as usual, is touching. Look at it! If it had a tail, it would be wagging it. There's no menace there." A third being, a smaller than the rest, made a higher, shriller sound, most unpleasant to Red Spine's receptors. Yet in spite of this he could sense the friendliness in it. "I agree, Roscoe. It means no harm. It may even be frightened: It must have seen us land." Again the rumbling sound from the first being. "That could have brightened up its day. Let's back away and see what it'll do. If it's really aware it'll thinkef something." "Do you mind," said the other maker of deep sounds, "if I keep my laser pointed in its general direction? Just in case what it thinks of isn't what you had in mind?" "If there were danger I'd feel it," the high sound said. "There!" And it placed the cylinder it had been holding into a slit in its carapace. "Grandstanding," the  deep sound grumbled. "Lindy, little friend of the galaxy. You only have to be wrong once, you know." The sounds receded as the beings teetered backward on those single pairs of appendanges, always keeping the large eye toward him. Red Spine felt a sudden twinge of pity as he watched. Such flimsy, unstable creatures! But then he turned his stalked eyes toward the huge artifact that had brought them there and his pity died. These were advanced beings. Whence they had come, how they moved through, space, why they were here -- no canceroid could imagine. The sounds that they made were varied and Red Spine knew that they were complex speech. He had recorded them all in his memory tissues, so that later, in a thought period, he could bring them back and analyse their components, searching for keys that would reveal their meanings. The beings continued to move away, so Red Spine flexed his many pairs of walking appendages and began to rotate slowly, first in place, then drifting across the sand like a great spinning top. The invaders became small white dots in the distance. The canceroid had but one thought suddenly -- to get back to the shelter cluster and tell this strange tale. He felt sure that he was being watched, so he took a long and devious route, zig-zagging among the boulders, and finally spinning around the mighty cone-shaped mass that was the Eater. With its bulk between him and the distant beings he sped for the shelter opening like a desert dust-devil. carrier come to ground. Half a dozen elders, the largest and at times the most brightly colored of the cluster, sat inert on prominences, their stalked eyes fixed on the long cylinder of the distant artifact. "We feared you were destroyed." one projected. It was Right Twist. Red Spine respected him. Right Twist was old and learned. "The creature came out of space," Right Twist continued. "We saw it come. It had many pairs of stalked eyes and its mouth opening glowed red. No doubt it has come to feed on us." "Your vision is better than mine," Red Spine thought courteously. "I was quite closer and I did not see these things. But it settled near me and I learned." "What did you learn?" Yellow Stripe showed no color now. His carapace was sand gray, as were the others. "I learned," Red Spine projected, "that it is not a creature at all. It requires no food. It is an artifact." He could sense the polite disbelief from half a dozen thought cenIF teFS. For a brief time span there was no other communication. Then Right Twist projected gravely: "There are facts to support this statement?" "There are facts," Red Spine acknowledged. "The thing is a carrier of many small beings. An opening formed in it and a number of them came out and walked on the sand. They have white carapaces and one great eye. They locomote on a single pair of appendages. And," he paused, for the point was an impressive one, "they communicate entirely by sound." "Primitives!" The pulse burst from Yellow Stripe. "This is unlikely." The projection came from Blue Dot, who occupied the highest prominence. "To build and use a carrier such as this is not primitive." They all sat. An aura of puzzlement and frustration seemed to hang in the air, but to have no particular origin. They all contributed to it. "You accept Red Spine's facts?" Right Twist thought at Blue Dot. "My vision is good," Blue Dot said, "and I sit above you. There are small bits of white about the thing and they are moving." "Their eye is very large," Red Spine said. "It may be that they also see us." "We have no ways of measuring what they can do," Right Twist decided. "They are alien. Whence they came we cannot imagine. Why they are here we cannot even speculate. Our rules will not apply to them. We can only watch." "And be watched," Blue Dot thought drily. "And hope." Yellow Stripe's fear throbbed in his projection. From the very egg he had been timid. "When the sun is gone," Red Spine thought, "when the radiation drops and the only light is starshine, we can look closely at the artifact. The aliens will be inside. It is likely that they come out only in the day." "But not certain," Right Twist cautioned. "We must use caution." "They were very near me and examined me carefully and I came to no harm. And when I rose and flashed the peace sign, they showed fear. They pointed cylinders at me and walked away backward, the large eyes always on me. And the sounds seemed disturbed. " "Nevertheless, we will wait," Right Twist decreed. "I agree that the time of starshine is best. We will go then." While he had no power to make decisions, because of his age he was respected. They waited. The intelligence of the landing of the strange carrier was projected into the shelter opening, where it was passed from thought center to thought center by hundreds of canceroids in dozens of chambers and corridors and repose cubicles. Each being sat quietly wherever it received the news. There was no rush to the shelter opening or to emergency exits to see for themselves. There was nothing more to be done or learned until starshine. So they waited. A ND as they waited it began again. Whether the unusual mental activity of the canceroids disturbed it or whether simply the renewed peristalsis of its vast gut -- empty after the rigors of molt and new skeleton formation -- roused The Eater mattered not. What did matter was that when he sulky, petulant rumble began, it must be fed. "Food! Food! Food!" Each canceroid understood, with an almost inherited wisdom, that the Eater should not move. Red Spine had wondered in moments of meditation if it could move for any great distance, after all the eons of remaining in that one location among the boulders on the hot sandy plain. Even its wastes were removed from behind it. Canceroids carried them far and wide, burying them under the sand. And at these spots the sponge clusters grew with unusual vigor and provided more and better cuttings of food pieces. Still, the Eater did move -- if only a little way -- as it flowed out of its armor at each molt. These happened rarely. Red Spine could recall but two in his life span. They occured just after the creature had had great masses of food. Only some great destruction of life, such as the fall of rock just past, could provide enough . "Food! Food! Food!" The mindless pulses became stronger, clearer. The Eater's patience was not great. Right Twist flashed a call into the shelter cluster. When the first canceroid emerged, he himself led the way out to where the sponge clusters were best developed. Other shelter clusters, each in its traditional turn, would be sending out food gatherers to placate the Eater's endless hunger. There was no resentment. It had always been thus. Only Red Spine wondered, deep in his contemplation centers, if this should be."The Eater will require more food than ever before," Blue Dot projected. "Some of it must come from very far away." IF "I wonder," Red Spine thought, "if all the canceroids from all the shelter clusters can provide enough. The sponge bodies are pruned as closely as we dare. We bring to it all dead bodies of all beings, however small. And still it cries." "We must give it more," Blue Dot said. "There isn't more. Our own food needs must be remembered. The symbionts of the shelter clusters must eat. The little beings that live under rocks, the flutterbys of the air, all must feed. Life cannot be destroyed even for the Eater." "Then," Blue Dot said, "perhaps the Eater will go searching for its own nourishment. It does not know that life must not be destroyed. If we do not feed it, it will devour anything in its path. It will leave nothing of the sponge beings to renerate. It will tear apart the shelter clusters. It will feed on -- us." "And then, having destroyed all the food, it will die," Red Spine said. "There is no benefit here for anything. All life will be destroyed to no purpose. Cancerol, the home world, will have no inhabitants." Blue Dot swiveled his stalked eyes toward the long cylinder of the alien carrier, far across the desert. "Others will come;" he prophesied. "There is proof, that carrier out there. Beings from space will take the world that has been ours since the beginning." appendages restlessly. This talk disturbed him. Something was wrong here. His sense of justice was offended. It was legend that the Eater had always been there, slowly growing bigger, and that canceroids had always fed it. But why? What did it contribute? Its wastes were not enough. Without it there would be food in plenty. There would be time for thought, for contemplation. With it, extinction threatened. "I sense your thoughts," Blue Dot projected. "You should shield them. They are not worthy of you." Red Spine said, "All sides of a problem should be considered. Even this one. Why should we feed the Eater?" "It has always been done." "That is not enough. For everything else there must be a reason. Why must I not challenge this?" "No one ever has," said Blue Dot. "And so we must die. Is this reasonable? Do you deny my right to question?" The bright blue spots of Blue Dot's carapace slowly faded until he was again the color of the rocks around. He withdrew his eyestalks into their sockets. Nervously his appendages tossed a pebble back and forth. "You disturb me. Such thoughts have always been buried deep and have never been unshielded. But you have the right to question." Red Spine felt satisfaction. "Do we know that the Eater can move and destroy all life? It never has. Why may it not use more energy in moving than it gets from the food it finds? Then it will grow weaker, find less food." "And finally die," Blue Dot finished. "That is not defensible. Life cannot be destroyed." "It is defensible. All living beings must feed themselves. If they do not they die." "The Eater is different. It has never fed itself." "And now," Red Spine projected boldly, "I wonder why. You have admitted my right to question and you cannot tell me why." Doubt and dismay swirled around the big canceroids as they sat unmoving on the prominences. Yellow Stripe and Purple Fringe and Plain Shell and Knobbed Claw and Blue Dot were completely without their distinguishing color patterns. Even a good eye could scarcely have told one from another. But Red Spine had never been brighter. The tip of every spine sparkled crimson. The six eyes at the ends of their extended stalks glinted pale crystalline blue. He raised and lowered his glowing body disk, half spinning as the appendages shifted. An idea that had been buried deep in his consciousness since his growing molts had finally emerged. It was heresy, but it was reasonable. That the Eater was given the food that should have been the right of all living things everyone knew. But the thought had never been allowed to surface. It had never been expressed before. Red Spine was stimulated, elated. "I may die," he projected, "but I will not be the cause. I will no longer take food to the Eater." "But -- " the soundless pulse burst from five thought centers -- "it must be fed!" "Why?" "We are repeating," Blue Dot said. "We cannot insure that you will feed the Eater. But we can remove your appendages, to give you time to reflect while they regenerate: This has been done." "True," Red Spine mused, "but I do not agree that this is required. IF Therefore, I will resist. And if I do, you will lose appendages as well." "But no one has ever resisted!" Yellow Stripe's thought pulse quavered. "True. And no one ever before decided not to feed the Eater. I have long felt that this is just. I also feel that it would be reasonable to protect my appendages." "You have the right to believe this," Blue Dot said reluctantly. "We will wait for the wisdom of Right Twist." Red Spine rocked on his appendages. "He also is fallible," he stated. "When the alien carrier came down he saw on it appendages and many stalked eyes. Now I was near it, on the sand, and it had none of those things. It was his fear that saw." Stalk'ed eyes emerged again from carapace sheaths. For a brief while they had forgotten the aliens. The insistent food call' of the Eater had subsided into a sulky murmur, so they knew that food was being piled before it. While it ate the hunger pulses grew less. Ill T HE sun had set. Overhead the stars grew steadily brighter, a black canopy stippled with sweeps and swirls of yellow points. The time of starshine was beginning. The radiation had receded. It was the pleasant time. "The small white beings will go back into the carrier," Red Spine said quietly. This will be the time to look closely at the artifact." "I must feed the Eater," Blue Dot said hastily. "It is my turn." "And mine! And mine! And mine!" "I am free," Yellow Stripe admitted. "I will go, but not too near. We should not frighten them -- if they are small, as you say." "I will go also," a thought pulsed ffom distance. "It may be that I did not see eyes and appendages. If there are none, I will correct my statement." "We will meet you," Red Spine projected. "Then we can agree on what is there." It was the first of many visits. The canceroids approached the great ship carefully at first, but on succeeding nights -- in succeeding times of starshine -- they gradually grew bolder. They paced the distance from end to end of the ship, a distance greater than the longest corridor in the largest shelter cluster. They marveled at the smooth curving sides of the huge cylinder. In those glistening walls, openings could appear, sometimes small, to allow the beings to come through, sometimes so large that gleaming, pointed artifacts were spat from them, to cruise far and wide in the air over the deserts and mountains and finally return and be received into the openings again. One thing was discovered early. The beings were not confined to the sunshine. Like the canceroids, they soon realized that the night was the better time. And, added marvel, when they came out into the starshine they were different. What appeared to be a carapace was not a part of the beings at all. When the sun was gone they emerged pliant and slender, the great eye replaced by two tiny ones and a mouth orifice studded with small white stones in rows. The false carapace was simply a shielding structure against the radiation and was readily removed. By sunlight and by starshine, Red Spine watched. Almost always he was near the carrier, impressing every wonder onto his memory tissues. Since he no longer fed the Eater, he had time. And soon he was deeply disturbed at what the aliens did. They looked closely at all life. Nothing escaped their attention. They had strange means of locomotion, leaping far across the desert at a single bound, or rolling along in a device into which several of the beings fitted. To Red Spine these things were merely curios. But the beings' lack of regard for the right of all beings to live was quite another thing. To take a portion of an organism for food was proper and necessary. But even in direst situation enough of the being must be left to regenerate. Otherwise life would not continue. This basic understanding was completely ignored by the aliens. They took entire individuals and placed them in confinementand would not allow them the freedom of movement that had always been the right of all things. In rows and rows of enclosures they imprisoned beings both large and small. They climbed the hills, lifted the rocks, dug under the sand. Even flutterbys beat their flying appendages helplessly against cleverly woven wall meshes of bright metal. what he saw. The ehders of the shelter cluster sat long in rapport, discussing what was known. As always they listened to Right Twist, because greater age gave greater wisdom. And Right Twist, after much meditation, finally offered his IF conclusion. He spoke first to Red Spine, as they lingered near the carrier in bright starshine. "These creatures, no matter how advanced, have brought to the homeworld an ancient barbarism. They destroy. Therefore they must themselves be destroyed." "A life for a life solves nothing." Red Spine took philosophical opposition. "First it must be understood why they do these things. They must be prevailed on to desist." "Why?" Right Twist questioned. "Will this release the forms they have imprisoned? Will it bring back those they have destroyed? Will it prevent them from destroying more? We have speculated on life from the stars, but who could have imagined that it would have primitive, exterminative ethics?" "Perhaps they are not really alive," Red Spine speculated. "In many ways they seem artificial. They could be merely devices, controlled by the Ultimate Wisdom from unimaginable space. They could have been sent to test the strength of our convictions, the consistency of our beliefs in the sacredness of life." Right Twist picked up a pebble, passed it from appendage to appendage around the entire circle of his carapace, a swift, facile gesture of irritation. "They are alive," he projected. "Their metabolism involves food and energy release and excretion. They are affected by the radiation. Note how quickly they have adjusted to the starshine cycle. Their carapaces are artificial. But they are alive." Red Spine knew this. He simply made use of the practices of debate while he thought. It was ethically necessary to refute an idea before a discussion could progress. Red Spine was a true fundamentalist in his thinking and to destroy an organism totally was, admittedly, not defensible. But Right Twist, from another view, was showing alarming signs of instability. Perhaps he should be deprived of all his appendages, to give him time to reflect and to become more rational while they regenerated. This was a mere passing thought pulse, shielded deep in his contemplative centers, and while Right Twist could not detect it, he probably shrewdly speculated that it was there. "I propose that we approach them directly," Red Spine thought, in his dulcet frequencies. "We cannot judge them by their actions. We must know their motivation." "I do not care to be collected," Right Twist thought drily. "I have no intention of having my movements restricted by an enclosure. These are alien, savage life forms. Undoubtedly they are searching for a life space. Ours is the ideal planet. They will take it unless we prevent them -- and in the taking destroy us all." Red Spine was becoming more than disturbed. He was appalled. He had not realized the extent of Right Twists's thought deviation. It was he who was the primitive, savage form. To suspect the aliens of needing a life space was a proposition not worthy of a larva. Obviously their technology was almost unbelievably advanced. It would be far more reasonable to meet them as equals, welcome them as guests, touch their strange centers in friendship. "Compared to them," Red Spine offered, "we are large. They would not try to dismember or imprison us. They will treat us with respect." "They control enormous energies," retorted Right Twist. "Size is meaningless. I propose that we take one when it strays from its group, remove its appendages and observe how it regenerates. This should provide some clue as to their possible potential to harm us." T HE sharp projections along the radiating lines of Red Spine's carapace glowed a brighter, a faintly pulsating scarlet. His six stalked eyes glistened like blue jade. "Unwise," he projected. "These beings are connected by a communications net. Injure one and the others will know. Further, I feel sure that they do not regenerate. Of the many from the carrier, not one lacks an appendage from the two pairs that are all they seem to have." "Then how do they feed? Can it be that they consume entire bodies and use their gonads alone to produce more? Disgusting!" "They are merely different," Red Spine thought soothingly. "Consider that they came from the depths of space. They are both a challenge and an opportunity. Not, I think, a menace." Red Spine himself was actually more disturbed by the invaders than he., wished Right Twist to know. They exhibited, indeed, a frightenjng adaptability. In a space of ten rotations of the planet, of the glorious homeworld Cancerol, the Center of the Universe, they had shown quick understanding of how living things were fitted to conditions and distributed as to space. These beings also, knew untold things that a IF canceroid could only suspect. They had come from space. They knew what was out there. Suddenly Red Spine felt the need for meditation, for solitude. He turned his disk slowly, flashed the peace sign with his cold light and went spinning away across the sand toward the shelter cluster. He enjoyed the exercise, enjoyed the exhilaration of the flexing muscles in his sixteen sets of appendages. Out of sheer well-being he spun faster and faster, leav- ing a blurred, looping trail across the sand. Right Twist followed him, but more slowly, scuttling along in a straight line, his stalked eyes directed back at the great space vessel of the aliens. Red Spine felt amusement. Right Twist now had no friendship for the creatures, but there was in him a healthy respect for what they might do. He was not disposed to remain near their ship alone. D AY followed day. The elders of the shelter cluster stabilized their attitudes toward the aliens, but they kept their thoughts shielded. There was not the rapport that had always existed before, for the points of view were too far apart. Red Spine communicated and soothed and counseled friendship whenever he felt a  mind open to him. This was not often. But he was aware of the feelings of most and worked quietly to modify them. Yellow Stripe, he knew, feared the invaders, as he always feared any unknown thing. He felt sure that Right Twist was plotting, deep in his own consciousness, to conduct his regeneration experiment if ever he could lay holding appendages on a specimen. Blue Dot remained aloof, coldly watching while the aliens went about their taboo-breaking, blasphemous activities. And Red Spine himself kept his stalked eyes on them all. He felt satisfaction that the aliens had made no attempt to imprison a canceroid. Instead, they also seemed to be watching, using recording artifacts. They made many sounds, waved their appendages in strange ways, emitted energies in wave-lengths most distressing to the canceroid nervous system. Red Spine interpreted this behavior, he felt, correctly. "It is justice," he projected. "While we are studying them, they are beyond doubt studying us. They recognize the nonthinking forms for what they are. Us they treat differently." "We are large," Yellow Stripe said fearfuly. He kept his energy pulses to lowest intensity, so that his thoughts were hard to detect. "Only our size prevents them from destroying us." "I feel that this has little effect," Red Spine thought. "They have energies we could never counter. Instead, it seems likely that they are trying to communicate. The sounds, the waving appendages, all indicate this. It is in this fashion that they communicate with each other." "This is evidence of low intelligence level," came from Right Twist. "Only primitive forms use sound." "You are thinking with our measuring devices. They came from space, in a vessel wider and longer than any burrow in any cluster on the homeworld. This is not primitive. "It is very advanced. We could not do it." "We would not wish to," Right Twist said stubbornly. "We have here the best of all possible worlds. Why should we leave? While they, having nothing to compare with CanceroL have come to wrest it from us and live here always." It was then that Red Spine began to realize that he had a responsibility to sustain something far more basic than a difference of opinion or philosophy. Deep in the cold recesses of his thinking structures the conviction grew that these creatures, these invaders, with their mighty space vessel and unbelievable artifacts, mut not be given cause to become antagonistic. What Right Twist plotted was dangerous. The senseless fears of Yellow Stripe might result in senseless behavior, actions the aliens would not understand. That was the real hazard. Lack of understanding. 