Even Leonardo follows me about and says "Weight, weight, weight!" He pronounces nothing else so well. Still, what should I take of Picasso? A handful of oils, yes, but I must take the. Guernica. And there is more weight. I have some wonderful Russian copper utensils and some Ming bronze bowls. I have a lime spatula from Eastern New Guinea made of oiled wood that has a delightfully carved handle (it was used in chewing betel nut and lime). I have a wonderful alabaster figure of a cow from ancient Sumer. I have an incredible silver Buddha from northern India. I have some Dahomean brass figures of a grace to shame Egypt and Greece. I have a carved ivory container from Benin, West Africa, showing a thoroughly Fifteenth Century European Christ on the cross. I have the "Venus" of Willendorf, Austria, the figure that was carved in the Aurignacian epoch of the paleolithic and which is part of the artistic tradition of the "Venus" art of prehistoric mankind. and Holbein, satiric prints by Hogarth, a beautiful Kangra painting of the eighteenth century on paper that shows little Mughal influence, Japanese prints by Takamaru and Hiroshige -- and where may I stop? How may I choose? I have pages from the Book of Kells, which is an illuminated hand-executed manuscript of almost unmatched beauty; and I have pages from the Gutenberg Bible which is the first book printed from movable type and which has illuminated pages to give the effect of a hand-copied manuscript, because the printers didn't want their invention discovered. I have a tughra of Sulaiman the Magnificent, a calligraphic emblem that formed headings for his imperial edicts; and I have a Hebrew Scroll of the Law whose calligraphy outshines the jewels which encrust the poles on which it is wound. I have Coptic textiles of the sixth century and Alengon lace of the sixteenth. I have a magnificent red krater vase from one of Athens' maritime colonies and a wooden figurehead of a minister from a New England frigate. I have a Rubens nude and an Odalisque by Matisse. In architecture -- I am taking the Chinese Compendium of Architecture which I think has never been equalled as a text and a model of a Le Corbusier house built by him. I would love to take one building, the Taj Mahal, but I am taking the pearl that the Mogul gave to her for whom he built the ineffable tomb. It is a reddish pearl, shaped like a pear and about three and a half inches long; shortly after it w-as buried with her, it turned up in the possession of an Emperor of China who set it on gold leaves and surrounded it with jade and emeralds. At the turn of the nineteenth century, it was sold somewhere in the Near East for a tiny, ridiculous sum and ended in the Louvre. And a tool: a small stone fistaxe, the first thing known to have been made by human creatures. All this I have collected near the ship. But I've sorted none of it. And I suddenly remember, I have collected as yet no furniture, no decorated weapons, no etched glass... I must hurry, hurry! N ovember # -- shortly after I finished the last entry, I glanced upward. There were green specks on the sun and strange orange streamers seemed to plume out to all points of the compass. Evidently there was not to be a year. These were the symptoms of death that the astronomers had predicted. So there was an end to my collecting -- and my sorting was done in less than a day. The one thing I suddenly found I had to do, when it became obvious that my sections of Michelangelo would be too heavy, was to go to the Sistine Chapel ceiling after all. This time I cut out a relatively tiny thing -- the finger of the Creation as it stabs life into Adam. And I decided to take Da Vinci's La Gioconda after all, even though his Beatrice d'Este is more to my taste: the Mona Lisa's smile belongs to the world. All posters are represented by one Toulouse-Lautrec. I dropped the Guernica: Picasso is represented instead by an oil from his blue period and a single striking ceramic plate. I dropped Harold Paris' The Eternal Judgment because of its bulk: all I have of his now is the print Burchcnwald # # , "Where Are We Going?" And somehow or other, in my last-minute haste, I seem to have selected a large number of Safavid bottles from Iran of future historians and psychologists puzzle out the reasons for my choices: they are now irrevocable. We are proceeding toward Alpha Ccntauri and should arrive in five months. How will we and all our treasures be received, I wonder? I suddenly feel insanely cheerful. I don't think it has anything to do with my rather belated realization that I, who have so little talent and have failed so miserably in the arts, will achieve a place in the history of art like no other man -- a kind of esthetic Noah. No, it is the fact that I am carrying both the future and the past to a rendezvous where they still have a chance to come to terms. A moment ago Leonardo bounced a ball against the visiplate and, looking at it, I observed that old Sol was expanding apoplertically. As I remarked to him then: "I find, to my astonishment, that in the midst of death, I am -- at last, at last! -- truly in life." IF grows up and goes monthly with the March issue, on sale January #th. We hope you'll be on hand for every new issue!... Watch for further announcements. See So Evil Froman was a totally un-mad scientist ; if anything , he was too sane for his own good. That spark on the moon intrigued him -- why shouldn't he investigate it? By Dean McLaughlin Illustrated by Paul Oban know there was anyone but himself in the observatory until he # heard somebody open the door to the dome, and then the hollowmetallic sound of feet on the enclosed, steep stairway which hugged the curve of the outside wall. Perhaps, Froman thought, it was Jameson. working late in his office and coining up for a chat. But that possibility. he had to admit, was unlikely; an astronomer on visual ob servation is not particularly disposed to conversation. There was too much to concentrate upon, without talking. And everyone knew what lie was doing tonight: it was there on the work schedule. He frowned, leaned back from the telescope's eyepiece, and looked across the dome to the stairhead. A man in a brown checked overcoat emerged from the stairwell, taking each step heavily as hi came. The light on the wall nearby icvealed him as a mass of form and shadow. Except for the dull red glow over the switchboard panel, it was the only illumination in the dome. That and the Hood of moonlight pouring through the open slot in the hemispheric roof. Froman did not recognize the man; certainly, he was no one in the department. And no one else had any business here at this hour of the night. The stranger's hat brim cast a shadow over most of his face, revealing only the tip of his nose and tire chin which was giving way gradually to plumpness. But even the heavy overcoat could not disguise the man's build: he ate a little too much, and exercised not quite enough. He paused a moment at the head of the stairs, with the lone light behind and to the right of his shoulder. He stood there, feet placed firmly, peering across the darkened dome. Then, as his eyes adjusted to the dimness, he saw Froman at the telescope and came across the floor. His footsteps thudded hollowly as he passed over the hatchway used for bringing up heavy equipment. Froman watched him come, and, when he was near, said, "How did you get in?" "I had a key," the man answered offhandedly. "You're Charles Froman, aren't you?" His tone irnmediatcly challenged any denial. When Froman nodded, the man reached inside his coat and brought cut a wallet. Propping it open with his 'thumb, he offered it to the astronomer for inspection. "The name's Mackey. I'm from Military Security. On business." His voice dean McLaughlin echoed strangely in the dome, and the way he said "Military Security" included capitalization. Because it was dark in the dome, Froman could not see the card in the wallet until he flashed a penlitc on it. The card only repeated the man's claims. Froman turned the beam on the man's face. The security agent blinked heavy eyelids, then squinted from under overhanging brows. Froman snapped ofT the penlitc and returned it to the inside pocket of his suitcoat. underneath the shabby overcoat he wore against the cold of waning autumn. "I don't quite see what you'd want with me," he said uncertainly. "We're the ones who'll decide that," Mackey answered shortly. "I just want to talk to you." Froman had bent over the telescope's eyepiece, but now he looked up again. "What about?" "Let's just say we're interested in your work." "But this is hardly the time -- " The agent didn't let him finish. "The fewer the people who know about my coming here, the better. They might guess too much. And no one will interrupt us this time of night, cither." He jammed his hands in his coat pockets, defending them against the cold. "This is a confidential visit," he went on. "We don't want anyone to know, and you aren't to repeat anything about it. Not anything. You understand?" "I suppose so. But I still don't understand what you want with me. All I do is teach a few classes and some research. What's that got to do with... Military Security?" He sounded puzzled. He was. "The less you know, the better we'll all feel," Mackey told him evasively. He continued, carefully deciding exactly what he wanted to say before saying it. "There's some question about how much you know, and if you know' less than we're afraid you do, we'd rather this visit didn't tell you more." "In other words, I'm to be quizzed about something I don't know." "We're sure you know something. The question is: how much?" The agent hunched his shoulders against the cold. "Look. Can't we go somewhere else and talk? It's cold up here." "It's always cold here in the winter," Froman answered. "We get used to it." "Well, I'm not used to it." "I didn't ask you to come. If you prefer, you can come to my office tomorrow afternoon. You can talk to me then." "We'll talk now. The longer it's put off, the more danger there is." "I'm busy right now." "We're not in the habit of waiting" "Half of astronomy is waiting for something to happen," Froman said. He was trying to be patient. "And when it does, an astronomer doesn't like to be interrupted. You can wait a little while -- what goes on in the sky doesn't." "How long will it take you?" the agent grumbled. "That depends. You might say I'm waiting for something I think might happen. If I do see something tonight, I might be quite a while." He looked straight at Macke v. # The security agent swung away. There wasn't much point in arguing with the man. ' Mind if I smoke?" "No. Go ahead," F roman answered. He added pointedly, "There's an ashtrav on the table # over there." He waved a hand toward the well-used table standing beside the larger of the two piers which supported the telescope. The red glow of the lamp on the switchboard mounted against the larger pier fell on the twin-bladed knife switches and the table below it. Mackey found the ashtray -- a very small one -- on one corner ol the table, most of which was occupied by a stack of photographic plates, a small radio, and an electrically driven sidereal clock and # red spotlight combination. Sullenly, the agent lit up and waited. lie glowered resentfully at the nolonger-used pendulum clock on the far side of the switchboard. Charles Froman dismissed the agent from his thoughts as he bent over the telescope's eyepiece. Besides his ancient overcoat he wore a fur-lined cap with car flaps, and for the most part kept his hands in his pockets. He sat crouched on the adjustable-height seat mounted on a wooden frame resembling a relic of the Spanish Inquisition. The moon was large under the magnification of the #-inch reflector. Froman could onlv see a small fraction of it at a time. But he only wanted to see one spot, an area shaped like a circle and just ninety miles across. It was in the center of his field of vision, a low-walled. eroded crater without a central peak, having a fairly level interior broken by only one or two secondary craters of any appreciable size. Under the lunar noon, the features were not very obvious -- there was not enough shadow. After five minutes of searching the walled plain, he sat back and changed eyepieces -- the new one providing for greater magnification. He took advantage of the moment to relax his cramped muscles before bending over the new eyepiece. A while later, he tried an even more powerful lens, hut the seeing wasn't good enough. As he shoved the seat-rack away, he muttered to himself, "I might as well throw those plates away. If I can't see anything. they won't show anything cither." But he knew he'd develop the plates anyway, and study them carefully, and compare them with earlier plates and photos dating back many years. There was always the chance of something else showing up, something other than the thing he had been looking for. Astronomy always was waiting for something to happen -- or, more exactly. waiting to find out if something had happened. After that came the other half, the questions: what had happened, exactly, and why? "Through now?" the sulking security agent wanted to know. He was on his third cigarette, and his fingers and ears were getting cold. Froman had practically forgotten the intruder. "I'll be with you in a minute," he promised without looking around. He stretched his longboned body to get the kinks out, then turned the wheel fixed to the side of the telescope barrel, the wheel which disengaged the instrument from the tracking mechanism. Coming around, he strode across the dome to a point below and slightly to one side of the open slot through which the moonlight splashed on the floor and the telescope mountings. He hauled on the pulley rope until the shutters groaned toward each other and collided with a solid sound that echoed in the dome for a long time. Brushing hands on his shabby coat, he came back and opened the switches on the panel. The red light went abruptly out. He lifted the stack of exposed plates from the table. "All right. Let's go." The agent crushed his cigarette in the ashtray. The three butts nearly filled its small bowl. "About time," he grumbled. He stuffed his hands in the deep pockets of his overcoat and followed Froman over to the stairs. "Sec anything?" lie asked the astronomer gruffly. "Nothing beyond the ordinary," Froman replied uninterestedly, starting down the stairs. He held the plates he carried carefully with both hands. "What d'you mean by that?" Mackey wanted to know. Froman's feet hesitated on the steps, but he did not turn. After a moment he gave a small shrug. "Nothing anybody else hasn't ever seen, I guess," he explained. "Less than some, even." "You were expecting you would?" "Something like that," Froman admitted absently. "I sort of hoped, but the phase is wrong to hope too dean McLaughlin much. But there is something funny up there." tom step. Holding the plates against him with one hand, he turned the doorknob with the other. Once through, he set the plates on a windowsill beside the door and waited for Mackcv. Then he snapped off the light at the top of the stairs, closed and locked the door. When Froman turned away from the door, Mackey was glancing at the three green file cases standing in the corner formed by the pyramidal pier supporting the telescope's weight and the wall which separated the dome section from the remainder of the observatory. Froman noticed the agent's curiosity, but said nothing to remove it. He collected the plates from the windowsill and pushed through the heavy fire door beside the cabinets. Sullen, Mackey followed. The corridor had windows on the left side, and two doors on the other. Farther along, just short of where the corridor broadened suddenly to the right, the window side was flanked by three tables, one of which bore a covered mimeograph machine. Froman paused at the first door. "Just a minute while I drop these off." he said, and ducked inside the darkroom before Mackey could reply. He returned a moment later without the plates. The second door was already open. Froman reached around the jamb and snapped on the light. It was one of the old type of wall switches; not pushed or flipped, but twisted. He motioned Mackey in ahead of him. "My office," he said simply. The office was deep, well lighted, indifferently furnished, and cluttered. The center was dominated by four long tables which served as desks. In a corner by one of the two windows was a typewriter on a low, wheeled cable. In the corner to the right of the door were two high, deep-shelved bookcases. In another corner was a cot, where Froman sometimes rested while waiting his turn at the telescope on the second half of a split night. A file cabinet stood at the foot of the cot. and beyond the cabinet an open doorway led into another, smaller room. Mackey advanced into the room and glanced over the tables. They were piled with papers, old bluebooks, scientific journals printed in a variety of languages, a few newspapers, and miscellaneous articles of equipment. The agent scowled at a booklet with Russian characters on its cover. He picked up a paperweight and weighed it idly in his hand. It was a sunburst of large quartz crystals, very shiny and striking under the light. In the corners where the crystals joined, he saw a few traces of dried clay. He looked at Froman qucstioningly. "I found it on a field trip," the astronomer explained. The security agent frowned. "But you're an astronomer. I don't get it." "It's my hobby: geology." "A hobby" the agent echoed. "Yes -- it's in vour record. Sort of odd for a star gazer, isn't it?" "Not really. After all. the earth is one of the planets, and we can study it in more detail than any other. What's odd about that?" "Nothing," the agent mumbled. Froman pulled off his fur lined cap. "You can take your coat off. It's warm down here. Just leave it anywhere." He removed his own overcoat and laid it on the cot, stuffing the cap into one of the pockets. Mackey folded his coat over tire back of the chair and set his hat on top of it. Without being invited, lie appropriated the swivel chair which faced a part of the table spread with a large green blotter of ancient vintage and backed by a row ol reference texts. "How do you guys stand it?" he asked. "The cold. I mean." Froman turned his head halfwav toward him. "Pneumonia is an occupational disease." "Really?" F roman's grin showed teeth. "Do Eskimos catch cold?' he asked pointedly. "But if you think it was chilly up in the dome, you should have seen the North Atlantic during the war " He shivered in recollection. The agent swung around and stared at the wall behind him. seeing for his trouble a reproduction of a painting by an artist with imagination and a way with oils that produced ncar-carneralikc detail: a spaceship -- hypothetical, of course -- newly landed on the moon: men in outfits like diving suits working in the foreground: and a background of savagely rugged peaks just beginning to catch the first harsh rays of the rising sun. dean McLaughlin Froman noticed Mackey's interest. "There's a storv about that painting," he said. "Seems that once one of us astronomers saw a kodachrome of it, and he thought the government was doing more than it was telling with its rocket experiments." Mackey's eyes snapped around and fixed on Froman. Then he grinned suddenly. "Heads in the clouds," he observed contemptuously. "Don't you star gazers ever look where you put your feet?" "When I'm on vacation," Froman answered. He nodded toward the quartz paperweight. "But Aesop wisecracked about an astrologer who didn't, if that makes you any happier." Mackey held his peace. He studied Froman's lean, narrownosed face and wide, squarish forehead through momentarily slitted eyes. He dug a cigarette pack from his pocket, offered it and was refused, took one himself and tapped it on his thumbnail before placing it between his lips. He lit the kitchen match by holding it in one hand and nicking the head with his thumbnail. He looked around for an ashtray, but there were none in evidence. Froman pushed a wastebasket toward him with his foot. The security agent nodded acknowledgement. The security agent...BT why the man was here. For a time they had been almost friendly, but that time was behind them now. This man suspected him of something -- his manner was almost an open accusation. It didn't particularly matter what the something was, but Froman felt an angry pang at the injustice of it. This man barging in in the middle of the night, acting secretive and hinting subtle threats. Froman planted himself stiffly in a straight backed chair. "You said vou wanted to talk with me," he said. "We were hoping you'd be more cooperative." "I'll cooperate," Froman told him. "But that doesn't mean I have to like it." Mackey dropped a length of ash in the wastebasket. He didn't look at Froman. "All right. If that's the way you want it," he said, and clamped his lips together. When he parted them again, he said, "We're not accusing you of anything. We're certain you aren't doing anything deliberately. Understand that?" Froman nodded, but he didn't say anything. "I want you to tell me about your work," the agent said. "I suppose you mean my research," Froman said. "But I have several projects in progress. Just which one is it?" Mackey sat forward abruptly. "This moon business," he explained curtly. "What you've seen, what you think about it, who you've mentioned it to -- everything. What got you started on it? Especially that." He sat back and cocked his ear. Froman half-closed his eyes to collect his thoughts and assemble them in the proper order. "I got started on it... oh, six or eight months ago." He started to rise. "I could tell you exactly if I had my notebook." Mackey waved him down. "Maybe later. Get on with it." Stiffly, Froman reseated himself. "About once a month, we have a visitor's night here. Anybody who wants to tan come in and have a peek through the reflector. We show them some of die planets, depending on which ones arc in the sky at the time; maybe point out something or other, and answer any questions we can make sense out of. That time, the moon was just at first quarter, and we decided to show the shadow cllcct of the craters on the moon when the sun's just starting to hit them -- you know', the whole ring all white, and the inside black except where the sunlight's hitting the central peak." "We don't care about the science," Mackey said. I'roman roused himself, about to say something angry. But he put the impulse aside. "We trained the telescope on the center of the disk -- right where the sun was coming up and halfway between the poies. The seeing was pretty good, and we bad an eyepiece nuking for a total magnification of I f)# times." Mackey interrupted. "What's the maximum?" "About two thousand, but it takes several miracles of good seeing to make it. Most of the time, things would just blur at that power. It's the atmosphere." "All right. Go on." Remembering. Froman smiled. "It was a kid -- a little girl about ten or twelve. She'd probably never seen a telescope that big before, and she was pretty excited. You could tell, that way she stayed at the 'scope so long without moving. Then she looked up and wanted to know what the spark was. Well, I looked and after a while I saw what she meant -- it was a spark of light inside one of the darkened craters. If it had been near the center. I would have said it was the central peak, but it was more than hallway to the western side, and it was really too bright to be that. A peak just getiing the sun would be white, but this spark had something else -- more like a magnesium flare, or the sun shining on something like a minor. I didn't know what it was." "What did you tell the kid?" "Oh. some wild guess. I called it a guess though -- I didn't make any bones about not knowing." "What was the guess?" Mackey gave the impression of an almost wolflike eagerness to snap at any fact. "A bit of volcanic glass," Froman admitted. "Some people claim the crater-, arc volcanic, and I hung the theory on that. It's a terribly weak theory, though, on several counts. I didn't believe it myself, and I said so." "Then it was this spark that got you interested," Mackey suggested. "That's right. I've been investigating it ever since." Mackey extinguished his cigarette butt against the rim of the wastebasket. When he looked up. his eyes were bearing directly on Froman. "What else have you seen? "Well, the next night I had a look, and most of the crater had sun on it and the spark was gone. But there was a black spot where it dean McLaughlin had been." "What did it look like?" Mackey pressed. "Just a spot. It was too small to see any shape to it. It may have been slightly oval, but I wasn't sure then so I can't be now." "That's all you've seen? Nothing else?" "I'm not sure," Froman said. He pulled at his right ear lobe. "Once when I had very good seeing I thought maybe there was really more than one spark -- that maybe it was two, possibly more -- quite close together. With lower powers, they'd tend to merge together." "What about the shadow?" "I couldn't tell. That could be several shadows merging too. I haven't had a real chance to find out -- for one thing, the reflector we have here isn't big enough, and the seeing isn't good enough to get more than a flyspeck. It's like trying to read Braille with leather gloves on." "Anything else?" "Yes. One other thing. One night I thought I saw part of the spark break away from the rest. It moved slowly toward the west -- lunar west, that is. But I couldn't really be sure about that. The seeing was good that night, but the thing was so faint it could have been my imagination. It probably was, because it didn't stop with the crater wall -- just kept on going and finally I lost it." Mackey was thoughtful. He looked at the floor and said nothing for a while. "Well?" Froman demanded. "Trying to decide what to ask you next." "Why ask anything?" Mackey looked almost ready to hit him, but he quickly subsided. "What about this crater you're talking so much about? How much do you know?" "I investigated it as soon as I was certain there really was something there. It's located right in the center of the moon's disk as we see it from earth. It's about ninety miles across, circular, and flat as a lake. No peak in the center -- nothing unusual in that, though. The name's Ptolemacus, if that means anything to you. I looked up some photographs from Mount Wilson and studied them -- there wasn't any sign of any black spot, or any sparks either. Nor any record of anyone seeing them before." "How do you explain what you saw, then?" "I don't," Froman shrugged. "I saw the spark and the shadow -- both of them. It's not the first time somebody's seen some change on the moon's surface; there arc a few records, though most of them aren't very reliable, and none can really be checked completely. But I am convinced I'm seeing something. Just the fact that it was a kid who pointed it out shows I'm not imagining things." "You don't have to get mad about it," Mackey said. Froman shook his head. "I'm not mad," he protested. "Then don't act like it. What about photographs? You've been taking some, haven't you?" "Just a waste of plates," Froman commented. "They didn't show anything, then." The man was persistent. "I have a couple of plates which might show something, but it's hard to be sure. It doesn't take much to fudge a plate -- a change in the seeing, errors in tracking, the grain and sensitivity of the plate. Everything's against getting anything, really." "You can sec things, but you can't photo them. That right?" "That's about it. If we had a big enough telescope here, I might be able to do something. But -- " he shrugged -- "we don't." Mackey muttered something not particularly sympathetic. "And just what do you think about these things you've been seeing -- how would you explain them?" "I don't know what it is," Froman confessed. He wondered what the man was driving at. Why all the questions? Why should Military Security be so interested? "All I know," he went on, "is that it's something new. It wasn't there until quite recently. It's high enough and large enough to cast a shadow I can see with the #-inch, and it reflects sunlight like a mirror when the angle is right. Flow it got there, or just what it is, I wouldn't know -- but it's there." gertips together and glanced upward at the cracked ceiling. His eyes had heavy lids. "Have you told anyone about this yet?" He sounded studiedly casual. "Of course," Froman told him, surprised. Why should he keep it a secret? "Jameson was with me the first night, and he saw the spark too -- and so did most of the visitors. At least they said they did. Half of them would see a little man with a green beard if you told them he was there." "Anyone else?" Froman's eyebrows inched toward one another. What was this man after? "I notified Harvard," he went on. He didn't like being prodded this way. "But nothing caine of it. Don't ask me why. Maybe thev decided it wasn't important. And I've mentioned it to most of the men in the department. And last week I wrote to a man I know out in California -- at Mount Wilson -- and asked him to take a look. I haven't heard anything from him yet." "Anyone else?" Mackey asked again, after a silence. "No. I think that's all." Mackey regarded the ceiling again, as if there was something important written there. "Now suppose you just abandoned the project -- just suppose. What would they think?" Froman tugged at his lower lip. "Nothing much, I guess. They know we haven't a big enough telescope for this kind of work. I've seen about all I could hope to sec. In fact, they might think it was odd if I kept up." He stopped abruptly. and his tone became hard. "Are you asking me to drop the project?" "Isn't that obvious?" Mackey said. He regarded his fingernails. Froman brought his hand down flat on the table beside him as he pushed himself up out of his chair. The jar caused a stack of papers to collapse sidewise, and the paperweight rolled noisily over the dean McLaughlin stained and varnished wood. It was a stone polished to a glistening finish -- a stone with fossilized plants in it. "Why?" he demanded. He stood, one hand gripping the table edge. "Because we want you to," Mackey said, as if that was the most authoritative reason in the world. "Because we tell you to. And we don't want you telling anyone about what you already know: what you've seen and my coming here, both. This spark and shadow. They don't exist. Understand me? They don't exist." "They do," Froman insisted. "I saw them, and so did Jameson." "Military Security says they don't exist." Mackey told him with austere finality. "Now do you understand?" "I understand that you're butting into something that's none of your affair," Froman told him. He could be just as forceful as the agent. The insides of his fists were beginning to sweat, and his face was burning. "I think this is still a free country," he said. "The government has no business telling people what they can and can't see, and there are no lies in astronomy -- you can prove the truth just by looking through a telescope. Anybody can look through a telescope. It was a kid who saw the thing first, not me." The agent abandoned his toughness. "Mr. Froman," he said, trying to calm him. "This is a matter of war and peace. What you've seen has got to be kept secret." "You can't keep secrets in astronomy," Froman snapped. "All you have to do is look up and see what's there. You can't keep that a secret. It's the same moon over Russia, don't forget." Cooling slightly, he continued. "I can sec some point in keeping secrets in physics, and chemistry -- even biology. They're all concerned with things here on Earth, and you people can use them for weapons. But astronomy is different. What effect could anything in astronomy have on war and peace? What are you? An astrologer?" "I'm a security agent, and I can't answer your questions. The less you know, tlie better. You can't repeat what you don't know. We want you to keep this moon business secret. Understand? All of it. You never saw that spark, or the shadow -- or me. That's all you have to know. Understand?" "They have telescopes in Russia, and they can look at the moon too. You can't keep anything a secret in astronomy. Anyone can take a look. You're being silly." "They have atoms in Russia, too," Mackey pointed out. "And just because they can take a look at the moon if they want doesn't mean we have to tell them where to look and what to see. Sit down and think a while. It's not as silly as you think. And it is a matter of war and peace; that's why you've got to keep your mouth shut." "Why should I? I don't like being told to do something without being told the reasons. Just because it's the government giving the orders doesn't make them anv more reasonable. I want to know why." "I've already told you. This is no game." "And just what on the moon," Froman asked acidly, "could be as important as all that?" Mackey seemed about to say something out of irritation. But he caught himself long before he found the words. Me was leaning back in the chair, his chin almost touching his chest, his eyes like twin drills boring into Froinan. In that moment, tilings fell into place in Froman's mind. Everything did make sense. Very startling sense. he'd seen the abundant articles in newspapers and magazines and Sunday supplements, speculating on the immense strategic value of a military base on the moon -- a base which could bombard any place on Earth, and yet. because of the Earth's more powerful gravitation, be nearly invulnerable to an Earth-staged attack. As an astronomer, he had taken perhaps a somewhat more than ordinary interest in the speculations. But he had never thought... It had never occurred to him that... Froman's glance drifted toward the painting on the wall. The spaceship, a bit of sunlight high up on its tapering prow: a spark. And the lunar mountains in the background. It was almost like a photograph, it seemed so real. For an instant, he imagined that the spacesuited figures actually moved; that the picture was no picture, but real. Of course it was a painting -- there was even a signature down in the lower right hand corner -- but... "How much..." he asked slowly, "how much have they been doing in New Mexico that we haven't been told about?" I hr security agent let his breath out slowly. "We were afraid you'd figure it out," lie said, "just from my coming here. But we couldn't take the chance ol letting you tell anybody about what you'd seen. They might catch on faster." "I don't jump to conclusions," Froman told him. "You're not to tell anybody about this. That base has to be kept secret. Understand?" Froman frowned. "I don't see why." "That's the policy we've decided on. It's got to be kept secret." Mackev sat forward, his hand grasping the table edge between thumb and palm. Mis other hand pointed. "We're warning you, Mr. Froman. If you let anything out and we catch you, there are plenty of laws we could get you with." "I didn't ask you to come here," Froman said with offense. He disliked being threatened. "I didn't ask to be told anything. I'd never have guessed if you hadn't come here. I've learned more from you than from all eight months with the telescope. If you hadn't come, I'd have just shrugged my shoulders and forgotten it. It's not the first time somebody's seen something on the moon he couldn't understand -- we're still not even certain what caused the craters. Even if I'd had a report of it published, nobody would have noticed. But vou had to come and answer all the questions I couldn't find the answers to. That doesn't speak so well for your security methods." "Never mind that. The point is, dean McLaughlin you're going to keep your mouth shut." "Not until I have a good reason," Froman answered stubbornly. Without his realizing it. his hand closed around the polished fossil-stone paperweight. "You don't seem to grasp die fact that science and secrecy don't fit together too well. We're working for truth and knowledge. Secrecy is just the opposite. And we scientists aren't accustomed to keeping secrets from one another." He jerked a hand toward a stack of foreign language journals. "It's you security hounds who've tried to change that." "This isn't science," Mackey answered. "It's a military affair, and it's got to be kept secret. Science hasn't anything to do with it." "You still haven't given any reasons. I'm not a puppet for you to order around. If I'm supposed to do something, I've got to know why -- and then I'll decide for myself whether I'll do it or not." "We had hoped you'd be more cooperative." Mackey was trying to be persuasive now, but lacked the proper tact. "Cooperation works both ways," Froman reminded him. "If you'll cooperate with me, then perhaps I'll cooperate with you. But not until then." "The trouble with you astronomers is that you look at the sky too much. There' re still such things as governments around, and nations -- especially one called Russia. And there's something else called espionage laws. If you don't cooperate, you can't say we didn't warn you." "You're a bit late, aren't you? What about Harvard, and the man at Mount Wilson?" "Forget about them. They're taken care of. Long ago. How do you think we found out about you? What we want to know now is il you'll cooperate." "I haven't much choice, have I?" Froinan said bitterly. "Listen. We'd rather keep it a secret than jail you for talking. Get that? And we don't know whether we can trust you or not. There. I'm putting it to you straight. What's your answer?" Froman leaned his weight against the table. He thought a moment. "Just how important is this? I mean, do you have any good reason for keeping this base a secret? Or are you people just in love with the idea of secrecy for its own sake?" "I told you. It's war and peace." "Maybe I'm just dense or tired or something," Froman said in mock apology. "But that still doesn't mean anything to me. I should think that if the Kremlin found out about the base, we'd have a much easier time of things. A moon base is too much of a strategic advantage. Why keep it a secret?" Mackey snorted disgustedly. "You'd better stick to star gazing. You may know something about that. Listen. If they found out about it, they'd take a gamble. They'd know they were beaten anyway -- their only chance would be if the base weren't ready yet. They'd take a chance on it. The day after the Kremlin hears we've got a base on the moon will be the day the next war starts." " Is it ready?" "We could use it if we had to," Mackey said. "But we'd rather not for a while yet. We'd like to have it self-sufficient -- mining its own ores and making its own machinery and bombs, generating its own power, and growing all its own food. So it could keep on fighting even if it was cut off. Right now, it has to be supplied from our New Mexico base. Don't think that base couldn't be wrecked if the Commies wanted to bad enough." He caught his breath suddenly. "Maybe I'm telling you too much," he hurried on. "But you see why it's got to be kept quiet. You don't want to be responsible for another war, do you?" "No," Froman said tonelessly. He studied the outlines of the fossils in the paperweight he held. His thumb rubbed at the smooth surface. He tilted the stone in the light. Mackey watched him. Finally, he said, "You were in the Navy in the last war, weren't you." "You seem to know," Froman said. He wasn't at all interested. "And now you're in the Reserve, I suppose." "You practically have to be, if you were an officer. Why?" "Just checking. We'd feel a lot better if we had you under security regulations." "What do you mean by that?" Mackey shrugged. "Nothing. Just thinking out loud. Forget it." He stood up and pulled on his coat. "I'll be leaving now. It's pretty late." He favored the quartz paperweight with a quick glance. Under the lights, it was almost diamondlike. He turned from it and moved past Froman, who hadn't moved, the fossil-stone still cradled in unconscious hands. At the door, Mackey paused, turned back. Froman still hadn't moved. "Remember. Don't tell anyone. Understand?"  ant Charles Froman, U.S.N.R., was informed of his recall to active service. They wanted to make the moon base self-sufficient. That meant mining ores on the moon. The ores had to be located first. Besides being an astronomer, Charles Froman was a geologist, and he knew his minerals. Once the novelty wore off, it was just prolonged monotony. There wasn't much to occupy his time except his work -- wandering over sun-bleached, dcssicatcd, airless terrain in an outfit which combined the dubious virtues of a Turkish bath and a claustrophobe's private brand of hell. And, except for that, nothing. Nothing but collecting pay (extra for special duty) he couldn't spend and counting up the furlough time he had due him but couldn't take because there was nowhere to go. And they didn't care if he talked to anvone about the moon base or not. The only people he could tell already knew. They were there, weren't they? The women had made up their minds, and nothing -- repeat, nothing -- could change them. But something had to give... By Jerome Bixby Illustrated by Kelly Freas me to have a child," Mary Pornscn said, "you can just forget about it. We girls have made up our minds." Hugh Farrel, Chief Medical and leaned back in his chair. He looked at Mary's husband. "And you. Ralph," he said. "How do you feel?" Ralph Pornscn looked at Mary uncomfortably, started to speak and then hesitated. Hugh Farrel sighed again and closed his eyes. It was that way with all the boys. The wives had the whip hand. If the husbands put up an argument, they'd simply get turned down flat: no sex at all, children or otherwise. The threat, Farrel thought wryly, made the boys softer than watered putty. His own wife, Alice, was one of the ringleaders of the "no babies" movement, and since he had openly declared warfare on the idea, she wouldn't even let him kiss her good-night. (For fear of losing her determination, Farrel liked to think.) He opened his eyes again to look past the Pornsens, out of the curving port of his office-lab in the Exside the ship. At the edge of the clearing he could sec Danny Stern and his crew, tiny beneath the cavernous sunbeam-shot overhang of giant leaves. Danny was standing up at the controls of the 'dozer, waving his arms. His crew was struggling to get a log set so he could shove it into place with the 'dozer. They were repairing a break in the barricade -- the place where one of New Earth's giant saurians had come stamping and whistling through last night to kill three colonists before it could be blasted out of existence. It was difficult. Damned difficult. A brand-new world here, all ready to receive the refugees from dying Earth. Or rather, all ready to be made ready, which was the task nel. An Earth-like world. Green, warm, fertile -- and crawling, leaping, hooting and snarling with ferocious beasts of every variety. Farrel could certainly see the women's point in banding together and refusing to produce children. Something inside a woman keeps her from wanting to bring life into peril -- at least, when the peril seems temporary, and security is both remembered and anticipated. Pornsen said, "I guess I feel just about like Mary docs. I -- I don't see any reason for having a kid until we get this place ironed out and safe to live in." "That's going to take time, Ralph." Farrcl clasped his hands in front of him and delivered the speech he had delivered so often in the past few weeks. "Ten or twelve years before we really get set up here. We've got to build from the ground up, you know. We'll have to find and mine our metals. Build our machines to build shops to build more machines. There'll be resources that we won't find, and we'll have to learn what this planet has to offer in their stead. Colonizing New Earth isn't simply a matter of landing and throwing together a shining city. I only wish it were. "Six weeks ago we landed. We haven't yet dared to venture more than a mile from this spot. We've cut down trees and built the barricade and our houses. After protecting ourselves we have to eat. We've planted gardens. We've produced test-tube calves and piglets. The calves are doing fine, but the piglets are dying one by one. We've got to find out why. "It's going to be a long, long time before we have even a minimum of security, much less luxury. Longer than you think... So much longer that waiting until the security arrives before having children is out of the question. There arc critters out there -- " he nodded toward the port and the busy clearing beyond -- "that we haven't been able to kill. We've thrown everything we have at them, and they come back for more. We'll have to find out what will kill them -- how they differ from those we are able to kill. We arc six hundred people and a spaceship. Ralph. We have techniques. That's all. Everything else we've got to dig up out of this planet. We'll need people, Mary; we'll need the children. We're counting on them. They're vital to the plans we've made." Marv Pornsen said. "Damn the #  plans. I won't have one. Not now. You've just done a nice job of describing all my reasons. And all the other girls feel the same way." at the 'dozer and crew. Danny Stern was still waving his arms; the log was almost in place. "George and May Wright were killed last night. So was Farelli. If George and May had had a child, the inon ster would have trampled it too -- it went right through their cabin like cardboard. It isn't fair to bring a baby into -- " Farrel said, "Fair. Marv? Mavbe it isn't fair not to have one. Not to bring it into being and give it a chance. Life's always a gamble -- " "It doesn't exist," Mary said. She smiled. "Don't try circumlocution on me. Doc. I'm not religious. I don't believe that spermatazoa and an ovum, if not allowed to cuddle up together, add up to murder." "That isn't what I meant -- " "You were getting around to it -- which means you've run out ol good argument'..." "No. I've a few left." Farrel looked at the two stubborn faces: Mary's, pleasant and pretty, but set as steel; Ralph's, uncomfortable, thoughtful, but mirroring his defilead. Farrel cleared his throat. "You know how important it is that this colony be established? You know that, don't you? In twenty years or so the ships will start arriving. Hundreds of them. Because we sent a message back to Earth saying we d found a habitable planet. Thousands of people from Earth, coming here to the new world we're supposed to get busy and carve out for them. We were selected for that task -- first of judging the right planet, then of working it over. Engineers, chemists, agronomists, all of us -- we're the task force. We've got to do the job. We've got to test, plant, breed, rebalance. create. There'll be a lot of trial and error. We've got to work out a wav of life, so the thousands who will follow can be introduced safely and painlessly into the -- well, into the organism. And we'll need new blood for the jobs ahead. We'll need young people -- " Mary said, "A few years one way or the other won't matter much, Doc. Five or six years from now this place will be a lot safer. Then we women will start producing. But not now." "It won't work that way," Farrel said. "We're none of us kids any longer. I'm fifty-five. Ralph, you're forty-three. I realize that I must be getting old to think of you as young. Mary, you're thirty-seven. We took a long time getting here. Fourteen years. We left an Earth that's dying of radioactive poisoning. and we all got a mild dose of that. The radiation we absorbed in space, little as it was, didn't help any. And that sun up there -- " again he nodded at the port -- "isn't any help either. Periodically it throws o(T some pretty damned funny stuff. "Frankly, we're worried. We don't know whether or not we can have children. Or normal children. We've got to find out. If our genes have been bollixed up, we've got to find out why and how and get to work on it iinmcdiatelv. It mav   be unpleasant. It may be heartbreaking. But those who will come here in twenty years will have ab# # sorbed much more of Earth's radioactivity than we did, and an equal amount of the space stuff, and this sun will be waiting for them... We'll have to know what we can do for them." "I'm not a walking laboratory, Doc." Mary said.  # "I'm afraid you are, Mary. All of you are." Mary set her lips and stared out the port. "It's got to be done, Mary." She didn't answer. "It's going to be done." "Choose someone else." she said. "That's what they all say." She said, "I guess this is one thing you doctors and psychologists didn't figure nn. Doc." "Not at first," Farrel said. "But we've given it some thought." MacGuirc had installed the button convenient to Farrel's right hand, just below the level of the desk-top. Farrel pressed it. Ralph and Mary Pornscn slumped in their chairs. The door opened, and Doctor John J. MacGuirc and Ted chologist, came in. er-play had been allowed to run its course, Farrel told the Pomscns to go into the next room and shower They came back soon, looking refreshed. Farrel ordered them to get back into their clothes. Under the power of the hypnotic drug which their chairs had injected into them at the touch of the button, they did so. Then he told them to sit down in the chairs again. MacGuire and Harris had gathered up their equipment, piling it on top of the operating table. MacGuire smiled. "I'll bet that's the best-rnonitored, most hygienic sex act ever committed. I think I've about got the space radiations effect licked." Farrel nodded. "If anything goes wrong, it certainly won't be our fault. But let's face it -- the chances are a thousand to one that something will go w'rong. We'll just have to wait. And work." He looked at the Pomsens. "They're very much in love, aren't they? And she was receptive to the suggestion -- beneath it all, she was burning to have a child, just like the others." MacGuirc wheeled out the operating table, with its load of scrums, pressure-hypos and jury-rigged thingamabohs which he was testing on alternate couples. Ted Harris stopped at the door a moment. He said, "I think the suggestions I planted will turn the trick when they find out she's pregnant. They'll come through okay -- won't even be too angry." Farrel sighed. They'd been over it in detail several times, of course, but apparently Harris needed the reassurance as much as he did. He said: "Sure. Now scram so I ran go back into my act." Harris closed the door. Farrel sat down at his desk and studied the pair before him. They looked back contentedly, holding hands, their eyes dull. Farrel said, "How do you feel?" Ralph Pornscn said, "I feel fine." Mary Pornscn said, "Oh, I feel wonderful!" Deliberately Farrel pressed another button below his desk-top. The dull eyes cleared instantly. "Oh, you've given it some thought. Doc?" Mary said sweetly. "And what have you decided?" "You'll sec," Farrel said. "Eventually." He rose. "That's all for now, kids. I'd like to see you again in one month -- for a routine checkup." Mary nodded and got up. "You'll still have to wait. Doc. Why not admit you're licked?" Ralph got up too, and looked puzzled. "Wow," he said. "I'm tired." "Perhaps just coming here," Farrel said, "discharged some of the tension you've been carrying around." The Pornsens left. Farrel brought out some papers from his desk and studied them. Then, from the file drawer, he selected the record of Hugh and Alice Farrel. Alice would be at the perfect time of her menstrual cycle tomorrow... Farrel flipped his communicator. "MacGuire," he said. "Tomorrow it's me." MacGuire chuckled. Farrel could have kicked him. He put his chin in his hands and stared out the port. Danny Stern had the log in place in the barricade. The bulldozer was moving on to a new task. His momentary doubt stilled, Farrel went back to work. the ships from Earth began arriving, the log had been replaced by a stone monument erected to which had been cut apart for its valuable steel. Around the monument was a park, and on three sides of the park was a shining town -- not really large enough to be called a city -- of plastic and stone, for New Earth had no iron ore, only zinc and a little copper. This was often cause for regret. Still it was a pretty good world. The monster problem had been licked by high-voltage cannon. Now in their third generation since the landing, the monsters kept their distance. And things grew -- things good to eat. And even without steel, the graceful, smoothly functioning town looked impressive -- quite a thing to have been built by a handful of beings with two arms and two legs each. It hadn't been, entirely. But nobody thought much about that any more. Even the newcomers got used to it. Things change. IF, but they're going fast! This may be your last chance to complete your collection at a reasonable cost, since when these are sold no more will be available from the publisher. Send #c for each issue you've missed to the Circulation Dept., Quinn Publishing Co., Kingston, New York. The world of the new race was peaceful, comfortable , lovely -- and completely static. Only Eric knew the. haunting loneliness that had carried the old race to the stars, and he couldn't communicate it, even if he had dared to! By Mara Wolf Illustrated by Rudolph Falais drical walls enclosed it, and a transparent plastic dome held it back from the sky and the stars. It waited, while night changed to day and back again, while tin seasons merged one into another , and the years, and the centuries. It lowered as gleaming and as uncorrodcd as it had when it uas first built, long ago, when nun had bustled about it and in it, their shouting and their laughter and the sound of their tools ringing against the metallic plates. Now few men ever came to it. And those who did come merely looked with quiet faces for a few minutes, and then went away again. The generations kalcidoscoped by. The Starship wailed. when he was lour vears old. They were out in the country, and he'd slipped away from his parents and started wading along the edge of a tiny stream, kicking at the water spiders. His feet were soaked, and his knees were streaked with mud where he'd knelt down to play. His father wouldn't like it later, but right now it didn't matter. It was fun to be off by himself, splashing along the stream, feeling the sun hot on his back and the water icy against his feet. A water spider scooted past him, heading for the tangled moss along the bank. He bent down, scooped his hand through the water to catch it. For a moment he had it, then it slipped over his fingers and darted away, out of his reach. As he stood up, disappointed, he saw them: two boys and a girl, not much older than he. They were standing at the edge of the trees, watching him. He'd seen children before, but he'd never met any of them. His parents kept him away from them -- and from all strangers. He stood still, watching them, Siting for them to say something. He felt excited and uncomfortable at the same time. They didn't say anything. They just watched him, very intently. He felt even more uncomfortable. The bigger boy laughed. He pointed at Eric and laughed again and looked over at his companions. They shook their heads. Eric waded up out of the water. He didn't know whether to go over to them or run away, back to his mother. He didn't understand the way they were looking at him. "Hello," he said. The big boy laughed again. "See?" he said, pointing at Eric. "He can't." "Can't what?" Eric said. The three looked at him, not saying anything. Then they all burst out laughing. They pointed at him, jumped up and down and clapped their hands together. "What's funny?" Eric said, backing away from them, wishing his mother would come, and yet afraid to turn around and run. "You," the girl said. "You're funny. Funny, funny, funny! You're stu-pid." The others took it up. "Stu-pid, stu-pid. You can't talk to us, you're too stu-pid... They skipped down the bank toward him, laughing and calling. They jumped up and down and pointed at him, crowded closer and closer. "Silly, silly. Can't talk. Silly, silly. Can't talk..." Eric backed away from them. He tried to run, but he couldn't. His knees shook too much. He could hardly move his legs at all. He began to cry. They crowded still closer around him. "Stu-pid." Their laughter was terrible. He couldn't get away from them. He cried louder. "Eric!" His mother's voice. He twisted around, saw her coming, running toward him along the bank. "Mama!" He could move again. He stumbled toward her. "He wants his mama," the big boy said. "Funny baby." His mother was looking past him, at the other children. They stopped laughing abruptly. They looked back at her for a moment, scuffing their feet in the dirt and not saying anything. Suddenly the big boy turned and ran, up over the bank and out of sight. The other boy followed him. The girl started to run, and then she looked at Eric's mother again and stopped. She looked back at Eric. "I'm sorry," she said sulkily, and then she turned and fled after the others. Eric's mother picked him up. "It's all right," she said. "Mother's here. It's all right." He clung to her, clutching her convulsively, his whole body shaking. "Why, Mama? Why?" "You're all right, dear." She was warm and her arms were tight around him. lie was home again, and safe. He relaxed, slowly. "Don't leave me, Mama." "I won't, dear." She crooned to him, softly, and he relaxed still more. His head drooped on her 'boulder and after a while he fell asleep. But it wasn't the same as it had been. It wouldn't ever be quite the same again. He knew he was different now. He was curled on his side, one chubby hand under his cheek, the other still holding his favorite animal, the wooly lamb his mother had given him for his birthday. He stirred in his sleep, threshing restlessly, and whimpered. His mother's face lifted mutely to her husband's. "Myron, the things those children said. It must have been terrible for him. I'm glad at least that he couldn't perceive what they were thinking." Myron sighed. He put his arm about her shoulders and drew her close against him. "Don't torture yourself, Gwin. You can't make it easier for him. There's no way."  "But we'll have to tell him something." He stroked her hair. The four years of their shared sorrow lay heavily between them as he looked down over her head at his son. "Poor devil. Let him keep his childhood while he can, Gwin. He'll know he's all alone soon enough." She nodded, burying her face against his chest. "I know..." Eric whimpered again, and his hands clenched into fists and came up to protect his face. Instinctively Gwin reached out to him, and then she drew back. She couldn't reach his emotions. There was no perception. There was no way she could enter his dreams and rearrange them and comfort him. "Poor devil," his father said again. "He's got his whole life to be lonely in." other winter and another summer. Eric spent more and more time by himself. He liked to sit on the glassed-in sunporch, bouncing his ball up and down and talking to it, aloud, pretending that it answered him back. He liked lo lie on his stomach close to the wall and look out at the garden with its riotous mass of flowers and the insects that flew among them. Some flew quickly, their wings moving so fast that they were just blurs. Others Hew slowly, swooping on outspread bright-colored wings from petal to petal. He liked these slow-flying ones the best. He could wiggle his shoulder blades in time with their wings and pretend that he was flying too. Sometimes other children came by on the outside of the wall. He could look cut at them without worrying, because they couldn't see him. The wall wasn't transparent from the outside. He liked it when three or four of them came by together, laughing and chasing each other through the garden. Usually, though, they didn't stay long. After they had played a few minutes his father or his mother went out and looked at them, and then they went away. Eric was playing "by himself when the old man came out to the sunporch doorway and stood there, saying nothing, making no effort to interrupt or to speak. He w r as so quiet that after a while Eric almost didn't mind his being there. The old man turned back to Myron and Gwin. "Of course the boy can learn. He's not stupid." Eric bounced the ball, flung it against the transparent glass, caught it, bounced it again. "But how, Walden?" Gwin shook her head. "You offer to teach him, but -- " Walden smiled. "Remember these?"... Walden's study. The familiar curtains drawn aside, and the shelves behind them. The rows of bright-backed, box-like objects, most of them old and spotted, quite unhygienic... Gwin shook her head at the perception, but Myron nodded. "Books. I didn't know there were any outside the museums." Walden smiled again. "Only mine. Books are fascinating things. All the knowledge of a race, gathered together on a few shelves..." "Knowledge?" Myron shrugged. "Imagine storing knowledge in those -- boxes. What are they? What's in them? Just words... The books faded as Walden sighed. "You'd be surprised what the old race did, with just those -- boxes." He looked across at Eric, who was now bouncing his ball and counting, out loud, up to three, and then going back and starting again. "The bov can learn what's in those books. Just as if he'd gone to school back in the old times." Myron and Gwin looked doubtfully at each other, and then over at the corner where Eric played unheeding. Perhaps Walden could help. Perhaps... "Eric," Gwin said aloud. "Yes, mother?" "We've decided you're going to go to school, the way you want to. Mr. Walden here is going to be your teacher. Isn't that nice?" Eric looked at her and then at the old man. Strangers didn't often come out on the sunporch. Strangers usually left him alone. He bounced the ball again without answering. "Say something, Eric," his mother commanded. Eric looked back at Walden. "He can't teach me to be like other children, can he?" "No," Walden said. "I can't." "Then I don't want to go to school." Eric threw the ball across the room as hard as he could. "But there once were other people like you," Walden said. "Lots of them. And you can learn about S them, if you want to." "Odier people like me? Where?" Myron and Gwin looked helplessly at each other and at the old man. Gwin began to cry and Myron cursed softly, on the perception level so that Eric wouldn't hear them. But Walden's face was gentle and understanding as he answered, so understanding that Eric couldn't help wanting desperately to believe him. "Everyone was like you once," Walden said. "A long time ago." day he would go over to Walden's and the two of them would pull back the curtains in the study and Walden would lift down some of the hooks. It was as if Walden was giving him the past, all of it, as fast as he could grasp it. "'in really like the old race, Walden?" "Yes, Eric. You'll sec just how. much like them... Identity. Here in the past, in the books he was learning to read, in the pictures, the pages and pages of scenes and portraits. Strange scenes, far removed from the gardens and the quiet houses and the wordless smile of friend to friend. Great buildings and small. The Parthenon in the moonlight, not too many pages beyond the cave, with its smoky fire and first crude wall drawings. Cities blight with a caves again the underground stations of the Moon colonics. All unreal. and yet -- They were his people, these men in the pictures. Strange men. violent men: the barbarian trampling his enemy to death beneath his horse's hooves, the knight in armor marching to the Crusade, the spaceman. And the quieter men: the farmer, the artisan, the poet -- they too were his people, and far easier to understand than the others. The skill of reading mastered, and the long, sweeping vistas of the past. Their histories. Their wars. "Whv did tlu-v fight. Walden?" # # And Walden's sigh. "I don't know, Eric, but thev did." # So much to learn. So much to understand. Their art and music and literature and religion. Patterns of life that ebbed and flowed and ebbed again, but never in quite the same way. "Why did they change so much, Walden?" And the answer, "You probably know that better than I, Eric... Perhaps he did. For he went on to the books that Walden, ignored. Their mathematics, their science. The apple's fall, and the orbits of planets. The sudden spiral of analysis, theory, technology. The machine s -- s t e a m s h i p s, airplanes, spaceships... And the searching loneliness that carried the old race from the caves of Earth to the stars. The searching, common to the violent man and the quiet man, to the doer and the dreaming jxiet. Why do wc hunger, who own the Moon and tram file the shifting dust of Mars? Why aren't wc content with the worlds we're won? Why don't wc rest, with the system ours? IFc hart cast off the planets like ouigrou n toys , and now zee want tlic stars... "Have you ever been to the stars, Walden?" Walden stared at him. Then he laughed. "Of course not. Eric. Nobody goes there now. None of our race has ever gone. Why should There was no explaining. Walden had never been lonely. And then one day, while he was reading some fiction from the middle period of the race, Eric found the fantasy. Speculation about the future, about their future... About the new race! He read on, his heart pounding, until the same old pattern came clear. They had foreseen conflict, struggle between old race and new, suspicion and hatred and tragedy. The happy ending was superficial. Everyone was motivated as they had been motivated. He shut the book and sat there, wanting to reach back across the years to the old race writers who had been so right and yet so terribly, blindly wrong. The writers who had seen in the new only a continuation of the old, of themselves, of their own fears and their own hungers. "Why did they die, Walden?" He didn't expect an answer. "Why does any race die, Eric?" His own people, forever removed from him, linked to him only through the books, the pictures, and his own backward-reaching emotions. "Walden, hasn't there ever been anyone else like me, since they died?" Silence. Then, slowly, Walden nodded. "I wondered how long it would be before you asked that. Yes, there have been others. Sometimes three or four in a generation." "Then, perhaps..." "No," Walden said. "There aren't any others now. We'd know it if there were." He turned away from Eric, to the plastic wall that looked out across the garden and the children playing and the long, level, flower-carpeted plain. "Sometimes, when there's more than one of them, they go out there away from us, out to the hills where it's wild. But they're found, of course. Found, and brought back." He sighed. "The last of them died when I was a boy." Others like him. Within Walden's lifetime, others, cut off from their own race, lonely and rootless in the midst of the new. Others like him, but not now, in his lifetime. For him there were only the books. The old race was gone, gone with all its conflicts, all its violence, its stupidity -- and its flaming rockets in the void and its Parthenon in the moonlight. V stopped. The room was filled with strangers. There were half a dozen men besides Walden, most of them fairly old, white-haired and studious looking. They all turned to look at him, watched him gravely without speaking. "Well, there he is." Walden looked from face to face. "Are you still worried? Do you still think that one small boy constitutes a threat to the race? What about you, Abbot?" "I don't know. I still think he should have been institutionalized in the beginning." "Why? So you could study the brain processes of the lower animals?" Walden's thoughts were as sarcastic as he could send them. "No, of course not. But don't you sec what you've done, by teaching him to read? You've started him thinking of the old race. Don't deny it." "I don't." The thin man, Drew, broke in angrily. "He's not full grown yet. Just fourteen, isn't he? How can you be sure what he'll he like later? He'll be a problem. They've always been problems." They were afraid. That was what was the matter with them. Walden sighed. "Tell them what you've been studying, Eric," he said aloud. For a minute Eric was too tongue-tied to answer. He stood motionless, waiting for them to laugh at him. "Ho on. Tell them." "I've been reading about the old race," Eric said. "All about the stars. About the people who went off in the starships and explored our whole galaxy." "What's a galaxy?" the thin man said. Walden could perceive that he really didn't know. Eric's fear lessened. These men weren't laughing at him. They weren't being just polite, either. They were interested. He smiled at them, shyly, and told them about the hooks and the wonderful, strange tales of the past that the books told. The men listened, nodding from time to time. Hut he knew that thev didn't understand. # The world of the books was his alone... "Well?" Walden looked at the others. Thev looked back. Their emotions were a welter of doubt, of indecision. "You've heard the boy," Walden said quietly, thrusting his own uneasiness down, out of his thoughts. "Yes." Abbot hesitated. "He seems bright enough -- quite different from what I'd expected. At least he's not like the ones who grew up wild in the hills. This boy isn't a savage." Walden shrugged. "Maybe they weren't savages either," lie suggested. "After all. it's been fifty years since the last of them died. And a lot of legends can spring up in fifty years." "Perhaps we have been worrying unnecessarily." Abbot got up to go, but his eyes still held Walden's. "But," lie added, "it's up to you to watch him. If he reverts, becomes dangerous in any way. he'll have to be locked up. That's final." The others nodded. "I'll watch him," Walden told them. "Just stop worrying." He stood at the door and waited until they were out of sight. Then and only then did he allow himself to sigh and taste the fear he'd kept hidden. The old men. the men with authority, were the dangerous ones. Walden snorted. Even with perception, men could be fools. sixteen Walden took him to the museum. The aircar made the trip in just a few hours -- but it was farther than Eric had ever traveled in his life, and farther than most people ever bothered traveling. The museum lay on an open plain where there weren't many houses. At first glance it was far from impressive. Just a few big buildings, housing the artifacts, and a few old ruins of ancient construetions, leveled now and half buried in the sands. "It's nothing." Eric looked down at it, disappointed. "Nothing at all." ' "What did you expect?" Walden set the aircar down between the two largest buildings. "You knew it wouldn't be like the pictures in the books. You knew that none of the old race's cities are left." "I know," Eric said. "But I expected more than this." He got out of the car and followed Walden around to the door of the first building. Another man, almost as old as Walden, came toward them smiling. The two men shook hands and stood happily perceiving each other. "This is Eric," Walden said aloud. "Eric, this is Prior, the caretaker here. He was one of my schoolmates." "It's been years since we've perceived short range," Prior said. "Years. But I suppose the boy wants to look around inside?" Eric nodded, although he didn't care too much. He was too disappointed to care. There was nothing here that he hadn't seen a hundred times before. They went inside, past some scale models of the old cities. The same models, though a bit bigger, that Eric had seen in the three-dimen. sional view-books. Then they went into another room, lined with thousands of books, some very old, many the tiny microfilmed ones from the middle periods of the old race. "How do you like it, Eric?" the caretaker said. "It's fine," he said flatly, not really meaning it. He was angry at himself for feeling disappointment. Walden had told him what to expect. And yet he'd kept thinking that he'd walk into one of the old cities and be able to imagine that it was ten thousand years ago and others were around him. Others like him... Ruins. Ruins covered by dirt, and no one of the present race would even bother about uncovering them. Prior and Walden looked at each other and smiled. "Did you tell him?" the caretaker telcpathed. "No. I thought we'd surprise him. I knewf all the rest would disappoint him." "Eric," the caretaker said aloud. "Come this way. There's another room I want to show you." He followed them downstairs, down a long winding ramp that spiraled underground so far that he lost track of the distance they had descended. He didn't much care anyway. Ahead of him, the other two were communicating, leaving him alone. "Through here," Prior said, stepping ofif the ramp. They entered a room that w r as like the bottom of a well, with smooth stone sides and far, far above them a glass roof, with clouds apparently drifting across its surface. But it wasn't a well. It was a vault, forever preserving the thing that had been the old race's masterpiece. It rested in the center of the room, its nose pointing up at the sky. It was like the pictures, and unlike them. It was big, far bigger than Eric had ever visualized it. It was tall and smooth and as new looking as if its builders had just stepped outside for a minute and would be back in another minute to blast off for the stars. "A starship," Walden said. "One of the last types." "There aren't many left," Prior said. "We're lucky to have this one in our museum." Eric wasn't listening. He was looking at the ship. The old race's ship. Ilis ship. "The old race built strange things," Prior said. "This is one of the strangest." He shook his head. "Imagine the time they put in on it... And for what?" Eric didn't try to answer him. He couldn't explain why the old ones had built it. But he knew. He would have built it himself, if he'd lived then. We have cast off the planets like outgrown toys, and now we want the stars... His people. His ship. His dream. T he old caretaker showed him around the museum and then left him alone to explore by himself. He had all the time he wanted. He studied. He worked hard all day long, scarcely ever leaving the museum grounds. He studied the subjects that now were the most fascinating to him of all the old race's knowledge -- the subjects that related to the starships. Astronomy, physics, navigation, and the complex charts of distant stars, distant planets, worlds he'd never heard of before. Worlds that to the new race were only pin-pricks of light in the night sky. All day long he studied. But in the evening he would go down the winding ramp to the ship. The well was lighted with a softer, more diffuse illumination than that of the houses. In the soft glow the walls and the glass-domed roof seemed to disappear and the ship looked free, pointing up at the stars. He didn't try to tell the caretaker what he thought. He just went back to his books and his studies. There was so much he had to learn. And now there was a reason for his learning. Someday, when he was fully grown and strong and had mastered all he needed from the books, he was going to fly the ship. He was going to look for his people, the ones who had left Earth before the new race came... He told no one. But Walden watched him, and sighed. "They'll never let you do it. Eric. It's a mad dream." "What are you talking about?" "The ship. You want to go to the stars, don't you?" Eric stared at him, more surprised than he'd been in years He had said nothing. There was no wav for Walden to know. Unless  he'd perceived it -- and Eric couldn't be perceived, any more than he could perceive other people... Walden shook his head. "It wasn't telepathy that told me. It was your eyes. The way you look at the ship. And besides, I've known you for years now'. And I've wondered how long it would be before you thought of this answer." "Well, why not?" Eric looked across at the ship, and his throat caught, choking him, the way it always did. "I'm lonely here. My people are gone. Why shouldn't I go?" "You'd be lonelier inside that ship, by yourself, away from Earth, away from everything, and with no assurance you'd ever find anyone at all, old race or new or alien... Eric didn't answer. He looked back at the ship, thinking of the books, trying to think of it as a prison, a weightless prison carrying him forever into the unknown, with no one to talk to, no one to see. Walden was right. He would be too much alone in the ship. He'd have to postpone his dream. He'd wait until he was old, and take the ship and die in it... Eric smiled at the thought. He was seventeen, old enough to know that his idea was adolescent and melodramatic. He knew, suddenly, that he'd never fly the ship. most of his time at the museum. He had his own aircar now', and sometimes he flew it home and visited with his parents. They liked to have him come. They liked it much better than having to travel all the way to the museum to visit him. Yet, though he wasn't dependent on other people any more, and could fly the aircar as he chose, he didn't do much exploring. He didn't have any desire to meet strangers. And there were always the books. "You're sure you're all right?" his mother said. "You don't need anything?" "No. I'm fine." He smiled, looking out through the sunporch wall into the garden. It seemed years and years since he'd pressed his nose to the glass, watching the butterflies. It had been a long time. "I've got to get going," he said. "I want to be back at the museum by dark." "Well, if you're sure you won't stay... They said goodbye and he went out and got into the aircar and started back. He flew slowly, close to the ground, because he really had plenty of time and he felt lazy. He skimmed along over a valley and heard laughter and dipped lower. A group of children was playing. Young ones -- they even talked aloud sometimes as they played. Children... There were so many children, always in groups, laughing... He flew on, quickly, until he was in a part of the country where he didn't see any houses. Just a stream and a grove of trees and bright flowers. He dropped lower, stopped, got out and walked down to the stream. It was by another stream that he'd met the children who had laughed at him, years ago. He smiled, sadly. He felt alone, but in a different sense from his usual isolation. He felt free, away from people, away even from the books and their unspoken insistence that their writers were dead and almost forgotten. He stood by the edge of the stream, watching water spiders scoot across the rippled surface. This was the same. This stream had probably been here when the old race was here, maybe even before the old race had even come into existence. Water spiders. 'Compared to man, their race was immortal... The sun was low when he turned away from the stream and walked back to where he had parked the aircar. He scarcely looked about him as he walked. He was sure he was alone, and he felt no caution, no need to watch and listen. But as he turned toward the car he saw the people. Two. Young, about his own age. A boy and a girl, smiling at each other, holding hands. They weren't a dozen feet in front of him. But they didn't notice him. They were conscious of no one but each other. As Eric watched, standing frozen, unwilling to draw attention to himself by even moving or backing up, the two leaned closer together. Their arms went around each other, tightly, and they kissed. They said nothing. They kissed, and then stood apart and went on looking at each other. Even without being able to perceive, Eric could feel their emotion. Then they turned, slowly, toward him. In a moment they would be aware of him. He didn't want them to think he was spying on them, so he went toward them, making no effort to be quiet, and as he moved they stepped still farther apart and looked at him, startled. They looked at each other as he passed, even more startled, and the girl's hand went up to her moudi in surprise. They know, Eric thought bitterly. They know I'm different. He didn't want to go back to the museum. He flew blindly, not looking down at the neat domed houses and the gardens and the people, but ahead, to the eastern sky and the upthrust scarp of the hills. The hills, where people like him had fled, for a little while. The occasional aircars disappeared. The gardens dropped away, and the ordered color, and there was grass and bare dirt and, ahead, the scraggly trees and outthrust rocks of the foothills. No people. Only the birds circling, crying to each other, curious about the car. Only the scurrying animals of the underbrush below. A little of the tension drained from him as he climbed. Perhaps in these very hills men like him had walked, not many generations ago. Perhaps they would walk there again, amid the disorder of tree and canyon and tumbled rock. Amid the wildness, the beauty that was neither that of the gardens nor that of the old race's cities, but older, more enduring than either. Below him were other streams, but these were swift-flowing, violent, sparkling like prismed sunlight as they cascaded over the rocks. Their wildness called to him, soothed him as the starship soothed him, as the gardens and the neat domed houses never could. He knew why his kind had fled to the hills, for whatever little time they had. He knew too that he would come again. Searching. Looking for his own kind. That was what he was doing. That was what he had always intended to do, ever since he had heard of the others like himself, the men who had come here before him. He realized his motive suddenly, and realized too the futility of it. But futile or not. he would come attain. For lie was of the old race. He shared their hungering. in his study when the council members arrived. They came with# out advance warning and filed in ceremoniously, responding rather coolly to his greeting. "YVe'rc here about the bov," # # Abbot began abiuptlv. "He's at the museum now, isn't he?" Walden nodded. "He's hern spending most of his time there lately." "Do you think it's wise, letting him wander aiound alone?" Trouble. Always trouble. Just because there was one young lxy, Eric, asking only to be let alone. And the old council members wouldn't rest until they had managed to find an excuse to put him in an institution somewhere, where his actions could be watched, where there wouldn't be any more uncertainty. "Eric's all right." "Is he? Prior tells me he leaves the museum every dav. He doesn't w  come here. lie doesn't visit his family." The thin man. Drew, broke in. "He goes to the hills. Just like the others did. Did you know that, Walden?" Walden's mouth tightened. It wouldn't do to let them read his hostility to their prying. It would be even worse to let them know that they worried him. "Besides," Drew added, "he's old enough to lie thinking about women now. There's always a chance he'll -- " "Are you crazy?" Walden shouted the words aloud. "Eric's not an animal." "Isn't he?" Abbot answered quietly. "Weren't all the old race just animals?" Walden turned away from them, closing his mind to their thoughts. He mustn't show anger. If he did, they'd probably decide lie was too emotional, not to be trusted. They'd take Eric away, to some institution. Cage him... "What do you want to do with the l?" Walden forced his thoughts to come quietly. "Do you want to put him in a zoo with the other animals?" The sarcasm hurt them. They wanted to be fair. Abbot especially prided himself on his fairness. "Of course not." They hesitated. They weren't going to do anything. Not this time They stood around and made a little polite conversation, about other things, and then Abbot turned toward the door. "We just wanted to be sure you knew what was going on." Abbot paused. "You'll keep an eye on the boy, won't you?" "Am I his keeper?" Walden asked Noftlv. They didn't answer biin. Their thoughts were confused and a bit irritated as tliev went out to the # aircar that had brought diem. But he knew they'd be back. And they would keep track of Eric. Prior, the caretaker, would help them. Prior was old too, and worried... Walden walked back into his study, slowly. His legs were trembling. He hadn't realized how upset he had been. He smiled at the intensity of his emotions, realizing something he'd always kept hidden, even from himself. He was as fond of Eric as if the boy had been his own son. impatiently. He didn't feel like studying. The equations were meaningless. He was tired of books, and history, and all the facts about the old race. He wanted to be outdoors, exploring, walking along the hillsides, looking for his own kind. But he had already explored the hills. He had flown for miles, and walked for miles, and searched dozens of caves in dozens of gorges. He had found no one. He was sure that if there had been anyone he  would have discovered some sign. He opened the book again, but he couldn't concentrate on it. Beyond those hills, across another valley, there were even higher mountains. He had often looked across at them, wondering what they held. They were probably as desolate as the ones he'd searched. Still, he would rather be out in them, looking, than sitting here, fretting, almost hating the old race because it had somehow bequeathed him a heritage of loneliness. He got up abruptly and went outside to the aircar. It was a long way to the second range of mountains. He flew there directly, skimming over the nearer hills, the ones he had spent weeks exploring. He dropped low over the intervening valley, passing over the houses and towns, looking down at the gardens. The new race filled all the valleys. He came into the foothills and swung the car upward, climbing over the steep mountainsides. Within a mile from the valley's edge he was in wild country. He'd thought the other hills were wild, but here the terrain was jagged and rock-strewn, with boulders flung about as if by some giant hand. There were a hundred narrow canyons, opening into each other, steep-sloped, overgrown with brambles and almost impenetrable, a maze with the hills rising around them and cutting off all view of the surrounding country. Eric dropped down into one of the larger canyons. Immediately he realized how easy it would be to get lost in these hills. There were no landmarks that were not like a hundred jutting others. Without the airear he would be lost in a few minutes. He w'ondencd suddenly if anyone, old race or new, had ever been here before him. He set the aircar down on the valley floor and got out and walked away from it, upstream, following the little creek that tumbled past him over the rocks. By the time he had gone a hundred paces the car was out of sight. It was quiet. Far away birds called to each other, and insects buzzed around him, but other than these sounds there was nothing but his own footsteps and the creek rapids. He relaxed, walking more slowly, looking about him idly, no longer searching for anything. He rounded another bend, climbed up over a rock that blocked his path and dropped down on the other side of it. Then he froze, staring. Not ten feet ahead of him lay the ashes of a campfire, still smoldering, still sending a thin wisp of smoke up into the air. moved. No tracks showed in the rocky ground. Except for the fire, the gorge looked as uninhabited as any of the others. Slowly Eric walked toward the campfire and knelt down and held his hand over the embers. Heat rose about him. The fire hadn't been out for very long. lie turned quickly, glancing about him, but there was no 'iidden motion anywhere, no indication that anyone was hiding nearby. Perhaps there was nobody near. Perhaps whoever had built the fire had left it some time before, and was miles a wav bv now...  # lie didn't think so. He had a feeling that eyes were watching him. It was a strange feeling, almost as if he could perceive. Wishful thinking, lie told himself. Unreal, untrue... But someone had been here. Someone had built the fire. And it was probably, almost certainly, someone without perception. Someone like himself. His knees were shaking. His hands trembled, and sweat broke out on the palms. Yet his thoughts seemed calm, icily calm. It was just a nervous reaction, lie knew that. A reaction to the sudden knowledge that people aric here, out in these hills where he had searched lor them hut never, deep down, expected to find them. They were probably watching him right now, hidden up among the trees somewhere. afraid to move because then he would see them and start out to capture them. If there were people here, they must think that he was one of the normal ones. That her could perceive. So they would keep quiet, because a person w'ith perception couldn't possibly perceive a person who lacked it. They would remain motionless, hoping to stay hidden, waiting for him to leave so that they could flee deeper into the hills. They couldn't know that he was one of them. He felt helpless, suddenly. So near, so near -- and yet he couldn't reach them, The people who lived here in the wild mountain gorges could elude him forever. No motion. No sound. Only the embers, smoking... "Listen." he called aloud. "Can you hear me?" The canyon walls caught his voice, sent it echoing back, fainter and fainter. "... can you hear me can you hear me can you..." No one answered. "I'm your friend," lu called. "I can't perceive. I'm one of you." Over and over it echoed. "... one of you one of you one of you..." "Answer me. I've run away from them too. Answer me!" Answer me answer me answer u me... The echoes died away and it was quiet, too quiet. No sound. Even if they heard him, they wouldn't answer. He couldn't track them. If they had homes that were easy to find they would have left them by now. He was helpless. The heat from the fire rose about him, and he tasted smoke and coughed. Nothing moved. Finally he stood up, turned away from the fire and walked on past it, up the stream. No one. No tracks. No sign. Only the feeling that other eyes watched him as he walked along, other ears listened for the sound of his passing. He turned back, retraced his steps to the fire. The embers had blackened. The wisp of smoke that curled upward was very thin now. Otherwise everything was the same as it had been. He couldn't give up and fly back to the museum. If he did he might never find them again. But even if he didn't, he might never find them. "Listen!" He screamed the word, so loudly that they could have heard it miles away. "I'm one of you. I can't perceive. Believe me! You've got to believe me!" "Believe me believe me believe me..." Nothing. The tension went out of him suddenly and he began to tremble again, and his throat choked up, wanting to cry. He stumbled away from the embers, back in the direction of die aircar. "Believe me..." This time the words were little more than a whisper, and there was no echo. "I believe you," a voice said quietly. to place it, and saw the woman. She stood at die edge of the trees, above the campfire, half hidden in the undergrowth. She looked down at him warily, a rock clenched in her hand. She wasn't an attractive sight. She looked old. with a leathery skin and gnarled arms and legs. Her grey-white hair was matted, pulled hack into a snarled bun behind her head. She wore a shapeless dress of some roughwoven material that hung limply from her shoulders, torn, dirty, ancient. He'd never seen an animal as dirty as she. "So you can't perceive," the woman cackled. "I believe it, boy. You don't have that look about you." "I didn't know," Eric said softly. "I never knew until today that there were any others." She laughed, a high-pitched laugh tliat broke of! into a choking cough. "There aren't many of us, hoy. Not many. Me and Nell -- but she's an old, old woman. And Lisa, of course...' She cackled again, nodding. "I always told Lisa to wait," she said firmlv. "I told her that there'd be another young one along." "Who are you?" Eric said. "Me? Call me Mag. Come on, boy. Come on. What are you waiting for?" She turned and started off up the hill, walking so fast that she was almost out of sight among the trees before Eric recovered enough to follow her. He stumbled after her, clawing his way up the steep slope, slipping and grabbing the branches with his hands and hauling himself up the rocks. "You're a slow one." The old woman paused and waited for him to catch up. "Where' vc you been all your life? You don't act like a mountain boy." "I'm not," Eric said. "I'm from the valley..." He stopped talking. He realized, suddenly, the futility of trying to explain bis life to her. If she had ever known the towns, it would have been years ago. She was too old, and tattered, and so dirty that her smell wasn't even a good clean animal smell. "Hurry up, hoy!" He felt unreal, as if this were a dream, as if he would awaken suddenly and be back at the museum. He almost wished that he would. He couldn't believe that he had found another like himself and was now following her, scrambling up a mountain as if lie were a goat. A goat. Smells. The dirty old woman in front of him. He wrinkled his nose in disgust and then was furious with himself, with his reactions, with the sudden knowledge that he had glamorized his kind and had hoped to find them This tattered old woman with her cackling laugh and leathery, toothless face and dirt encrusted clothing couldn't be like him. He couldn't accept it... Mag led him up the slope and then over some heaped boulders, and suddenly they were on level ground again. They had come out into a tiny canyon, a blind pocket recessed into the mountain, almost completely surrounded by walls that rose sharply upward. Back across the gorge, huddled against the face of the mountain, was a tiny hut. It was primitive, like those in the prehistoric sections of the old history hooks. It was made of branches lashed together, with sides that leaned crookedly against each other and a matted roof that looked as if it would slide off at any minute. It was like a twig house that a child might make with sticks and grass. "Our home," Mag said. Her voice was proud. He didn't answer. He followed her across toward it, past the mounds of refuse, the fruit rinds and bones and skins that were flung carelessly beside the trail. He smelled the scent of decay and rottenness and turned his head away, feeling sick. "Lisa! Lisa!" Mag shouted, the words echoing and re-echoing. A figure moved just inside the hut doorway. "She's not here," a voice called. "She's out hunting." "Well, come on out, Nell, and sec what I've found." Tile figure moved slowly out from the gloom of the hut, bending to get through the low door, half straightening up outside, and Eric saw that it was an old, old woman. She couldn't straighten very far. She was too old. bent and twisted and brittle, feebler looking than anyone Eric had ever seen before. She hobbled toward him slowly, teetering from side to side as she walked, her hands held out in front of her, her eyes on the ground. "What is it, Mag?" Her voice was as twisted as her body. "A boy. Valleyboy. Just the age for our Lisa, too." Eric felt his face redden and he opened his mouth to protest, to say something, anything, but Mag went right on talking, ignoring him. "The boy came in an aircar. I thought he was one of the normals -- but he's not. Hasn't their ways. Good looking boy, too." "Is he?" Nell had reached them. She stopped and looked up, right into Eric's face, and for the first time he realized that she was blind. Her eyes were milky white, without pupils, without irises. Against the brown leather of her skin they looked moist and dead. "Speak, boy," she croaked. "Let me hear your voice." "Hello," Eric said, feeling utterly foolish and utterly confused. "I'm Eric." "Eric..." Nell reached out, touched his arm with her hand, ran her fingers up over his shoulders, over his chest. "It's been a long time since I've heard a man's voice," she said. "Not since Mag here was a little girl." "Have you been -- here -- all that time?" Eric asked, looking around him at the hut, and the meat hanging to dry, covered with flies, and the leather water bags, and the mounds of refuse, the huge, heaped mounds that he couldn't stop smelling. "Yes," Nell said. "I've been here longer than I want to remember, boy. We came here from the other mountains when Mag was only a baby." hut, and as they neared it he smelled a new smell, that of stale smoke and stale sweat overlying the general odor of decay. "Let's talk out here," he said, not wanting to go inside. They sat down on the hard earth and the two women turned their faces toward him, Mag watching him intently, Nell listening, her head cocked to one side like an old crippled bird's. "I always thought I was the only one like me," Eric said. "The people don't know of any others. They don't know you exist. They wouldn't believe it." "That's the way we want it," Mag said. "That's the only way it can he." Nell nodded. "I was a girl in the other hills," she said, nodding toward the west, toward the museum. "There were several of us then. There had been families of us in my father's time, and in his father's time, and maybe before that even. But when I was a girl there was only my father and my mother and another wife of my father's, and a lot of children..." She paused, still looking toward the west, facing a horizon she could no longer see. "The normal ones came. We'd hidden from them before. But this time we had no chance to hide. I was hunting, with the boy who was my father's nephew. "They surrounded the hut. They didn't make any sound. They don't have to. I was in the forest when I heard my mother scream." "Did they kill her?" Eric cried out. "They wouldn't do that." "No. they didn't kill any of them. They dragged them off to the aircars, all o! them. My father, my mother and the other woman, the children. We watched from the trees and saw them dragged off, tied with ropes, like wild animals. The cars flew away. Our people never came back." She stopped, sunken in revery. Mag took up the story. Her voice was matter-of-fact, completely casual about those long ago events. "A bear killed my father. That was after we came back here. Nell was sick. I did the hunting. We almost starved, for a while, but there's lots of game in the hills. It's a good life here. But I've been sorry for Lisa. She's a woman now. She needs a man. I'm glad you came. I would have hated to send her out looking for a normal one." "But -- " Eric stopped, his head whirling. He didn't know what to say. Anything at all would sound wrong, cruel. "It's dangerous." Mag went on, "taking up with the normals. They think it's wrong. They think we're animals. One of us has to pick a man who's stupid -- a farmer, maybe -- and even then it's like being a pet. A beast." It took a moment for Eric to realize what she was saying, and when he did realize, the thought horrified him. "Lisa's father was stupid," Mag said. "He took me in when I came down from the hills. He didn't send for the others. Not then. He kept me and fed me and treated me kindly, and I thought I was safe. I thought our kind and theirs could live together." She laughed. Deep, bitter lines creased her mouth. "A week later the aircar came. They sneaked up to the garden where i was. He was with them. He was leading them." She laughed again. "Their kindness means nothing. Their love means nothing. To them, we're animals." The old woman, Nell, rocked back and forth, her face still in revery. Flies crawled over her bare arms, unheeded. "I got away," Mag said. "I saw them coining. They can't run fast, and I knew the hiding places. I never went back to the valleys. Nell would have starved without me. And there was Lisa to care for, later... The Hies settled on Eric's hands and he brushed them away, shivering. Mag smiled. The bitterness left her face. "I'm glad l don't have to send Lisa down to the valley." She got up before he could answer, before he could even think of anything to say or do. Grossing over to the pole where the dried meat hung, she pulled a piece of it loose and brought it back to where they sat. Some she gave to the old woman and some she kept for herself and the rest, most of it, she tossed to Eric. "You must be hungry, boy." It was filthy. Dirt clung to it -- dust and pollen and grime -- and the flies had flown off in clouds when she lifted it down. The old woman raised her piece and put the edge of it in her mouth and started to chew, slowly, eating her way up the strip. Mag tore hers with her teeth, reriding it and swallowing it quickly, watching Eric all the time. "Eat." It was unreal. He couldn't be here. These women couldn't exist. He lifted the meat, feeling his stomach knot with disgust, wanting to fling it from him and run, blindly, down the hill to the aircar. But he didn't. He had searched too long to flee now. Shuddering, he closed his mind to the flies and the smell and the filth and bit into the meat and chewed it and swallowed it. And all the time, Mag watched him. The sun passed overhead and began to dip toward the west. The shadows, which had shortened as they sat in front of the hut, lengthened again, until they themselves were half in the shadow of the trees lining the gorge. Still Lisa did not come. It was very quiet. The only sounds that broke the silence were their own voices and the buzzing of the flies. They talked, but communication was difficult between them. Eric tried to accept their ideas, their way of life, but he couldn't. The things they said were strange to him. Their whole pattern of life w'as strange to him. He could understand it at all only because he had studied the primitive peoples of the old race. But he couldn't imagine himself as one of them. He couldn't think of himself as having grown up among them, in the hills, living only to hunt and gather berries and store food for the wintertime. He couldn't think of himself hiding, creeping through the gorges like a hunted animal, flattening himself in the underbrush whenever an aircar passed by. He sat and listened to them talk, and his amazement grew. Their beliefs were so different. He listened to their superstitious accounts of the old race, and the way it had been "in the beginning." He listened to their legends of the old gods who flew through the air and were a mighty people, but who were destroyed by a new race of devils. He listened as they told him of their own ancestors, children of the gods, who had fled to the hills to await the gods' return. They had no conception at all of the thousands of years that had elapsed between the old race's passing and their own forefathers' flight into the hills. And when he tried to explain, they shook their heads and wouldn't believe him. He didn't hear Lisa come. One minute the far end of the clearing was empty and still and the next minute the girl was walking across it toward them, a bow in one hand and a pair of rabbits dangling from the other. the rabbits dropping from her hand. "Here's your young man, Lisa," Mag said. "Valley boy. His name's Eric." He stared back at her, more in curiosity than in surprise. She wasn't nearly as unattractive as he had thought she would be. She wouldn't be bad looking at all, he thought, if she were clean. She was fairly tall and lean, too skinny really, with thin muscular arms instead of the softly rounded arms the valley girls had. She was too brown, but her skin hadn't turned leathery yet, and there was still a little life in the lank brown hair that fell matted about her shoulders. "Hello. Lisa," he said. "Hello." Her eyes never left him. She stared at him, her lips trembling, her whole body tensed. She looked as if she were going to turn and run at any moment, as if only his quietness kept her from fleeing. With a sudden shock Eric realized that she too was afraid -- afraid of him. His own hesitation fell away and he smiled at her. Mag got up and went over to the girl and put her arm around Lisa's shoulders. "Don't be afraid of him, child," Mag said. "He's a nice boy. Not like one of them ." Lisa trembled. Eric watched her, pitying her. She was as helpless as he before tire calm assumption of the older women. More helpless, because she had probably never thought of defying them, of escaping the pattern of their lives. "Don't worry, Lisa," he said. "I won't hurt you." Slowly she walked toward him, poised, waiting for a hostile move. She came within a few feet of him and then sank to her haunches, still watching him, still poised. She was as savage as the others. A graceful, dirty savage. "You're really one of us?" she said. "You can't perceive?" "No," he said. "I can't perceive." "He's not like them," Mag said flatly. "If you'd ever been among them, you'd know their ways." "I've never seen a man before, up close," Lisa said. Her eyes pleaded with him, and suddenly he knew why he pitied her. It was because she felt helpless before him, and begged him not to harm her, and thought of him as something above her, more powerful than she, and dangerous. He looked across at her and felt protective, and it was a new feeling to him. absolutely new. Because always before, around the normals, even around his own parents and Walden, he had been the helpless one. He liked this new feeling, and wished it could last. But it couldn't. He couldn't do as the old women expected him to, leave the valley and his parents, leave the books and the museum and the ship, just to hide in the hills like a beast with them. He had come to find his people, but these three were not they. "You two go on off and talk," Mag said. "We're old. We don't matter now. You've got things to settle between you." She cackled again and got up and went into the hut and old Nell got up also and followed her. The girl shivered. She drew back a little, away from him. Her eyes never left his face. "Don't be afraid, Lisa," he said gently. "I won't hurt you. I won't even touch you. But I would like to talk to you." "All right," she said. They got up and walked to the end of the gorge, the girl keeping always a few feet from him. At the boulders she stopped and faced him, her back against a rock, her thin body still trembling. "Lisa," he said. "I want to be your friend." Her eyes widened. "How can you?" she said. "Men are friends. Women are friends. But you're a man and I'm a woman and it's different." He shook his head helplessly, trying to think of a way to explain things to her. He couldn't say that he found her dirty and unattractive and almost another species. He couldn't say that he'd searched the hills, often thinking of the relationship between man and woman, but that she wasn't the woman, that she never could be the woman for him. He couldn't .tell her that he pitied her in perhaps the same way that the normals pitied him. Still, he wanted to talk to her. He wanted to be her friend. Because he was sure now that he could search the mountains forever, and perhaps find other people, even if those he found were like her, and Mag and Nell. "Listen, Lisa," he said. "I can't live up here. I live in the valley. I came in an aircar, and it's down in the canyon below here. I have to go back -- soon. Before it gets completely dark." "Why?" "If I don't the normals will come looking for me. They'll find the aircar and then they'll find us. And you and your family will be taken away. Don't you understand?" "You're going?" Lisa said. "In a little while. I must." She looked at him, strangely. She looked at his clothes, at his face, at his body. Then she looked at her own hands and touched her own coarse dress, and she nodded. "You won't come back," she said. "You don't like me. I'm not what you were searching for." He couldn't answer. Her words hurt him. The very fact that she could recognize their difference from each other hurt him. He pitied her still more. "I'll come back," he said. "Of course I will. As often as I can. You're the only other people I've ever known who didn't perceive." She looked up into his face again. Her eyes were very large. They were the only beautiful thing about her. "Even if you do come back, you won't want me." There wasn't any answer at all. back to the museum. He landed the aircar and climbed out and walked across to the building, still feeling unreal, still not believing that the events of this day had actually happened. He nodded to Prior and the old caretaker nodded back and then stood staring at him, troubled and curious. Eric didn't notice the other's expression, nor the fact that Prior followed him to the top of the spiral ramp and remained there for a while, watching. Eric stood at the bottom of the well where he had so often stood before, staring across at the ship, then looking up, up, up its sleek length to w'here its nose pointed yearningly toward the night sky. But tonight he found no comfort in the sight, no sense of kinship with its builders. Tonight the ship was a dead and empty thing. "You won't want me -- " Her voice, her eyes, came between him and the stars. He had thought of finding his people and sharing with them their common heritage from the past, fhe knowledge of the old race and its thoughts and its science and its philosophy. He had thought of sharing with them the old desire for the stars, the old hunger, the old loneliness that the new race could never understand. He had been wrong. His people... He pushed the thought away. He looked up at the stars that were merely pin-pricks of light at the top of the well and wondered if anyone, old race or new or something different from cither, lived among them now. And he felt small, and even the ship was small, and his own problems and his own search were unimportant. He sat down and leaned back against the smooth wall and closed his eyes, blotting out the ship and the stars, and finally, even Lisa's face before him. The old caretaker found him sleeping riiere, and sighed, and went away again, still frowning. Eric slept on, unheeding. When he awoke it was late morning and the stars were gone and clouds drifted across the mouth of the well. There was no answer here. The starship would never fly. And Eric went back to the mountains. the councilmcn stood facing Walden across the great museum table. They had come together, Abbot and Drew and the others, and they faced him together, frowning. Their thoughts were hidden. Walden could catch only glimpses of what lay beneath their worry. "Every day." Abbot's eyes were hard, unyielding. "Why, Walden? Why does he go there every day?" "Docs it matter?" "Perhaps. Perhaps not. We can't tell -- yet." The ring of faces, of buried perceptions, of fear, anxiety, and a worry that could no longer be shrugged off. And Eric away, as he was every day now, somewhere in the distant hills. "The boy's all right." Walden checked his own rush of worry. "Is he?" The worry in the open now, the fear uncontaincd, and no more vacillation. Their thoughts hidden from Walden, their plans hidden, and nothing he could do, no way to warn Eric, yet. Abbot smiled, humorlcssly. "The boy had better be all right..." and made sure that the aircar was hidden under a ledge, with branches drawn about it so that no one could spot it from above. Then he turned and started for the slope, and as he reached it Lisa ran down to meet him. "You're late," she called. "Am I? Have you really been waiting for me?" "Of course." She came over to meet him, laughing, openly glad that he had come. He smiled back at her and walked along beside her, having to take long strides to match her skipping ones, and he too was glad that he'd come. Lately he felt like this every day. It was a feeling he couldn't analyze. Nothing had changed. The girl was still too thin and too brown and too dirty, although now she had begun to wash her dress and her body in the mountain stream and to comb the snarls from her hair. But it didn't make her attractive to him. It only made her less unattractive. "Will you always have to go away every night?" she asked guilelessly. "I suppose so." He looked down at her and smiled, wondering why he came. There was still an air of unreality about the whole situation. He felt numb. He had felt that way ever since the first day, and the feeling had grown, until now he moved and spoke and smiled and ate and it was as if lie were someone else and the person he had been was gone completely. He liked coming here. But there was no triumph in being with these people, no sense of having found his own kind, no purpose, nothing but a vague consearch any farther. "You're very quiet," Lisa said. "I know. I was thinking." She reached out and touched his arm, her fingers strong and muscular. He smiled at her but made no move toward her, and after a moment she sighed and took her hand away. "Why are you so different, Eric?" "Perhaps because I was raised by the others, the normal ones. Perhaps just because I've read so many books about the old race..." They came up to the boulders that blocked the entrance of the little gorge where the hut was. Lisa started toward them, then stopped abruptly. "Let's go on up the hill. I want to talk to you, without them." "All right." He followed her without speaking, concentrating all his effort on scrambling over the rougher spots in the trail. She didn't say anything more until they had come out on a high ledge that overlooked the whole canyon and she had sat down and motioned for him to sit down too. "Whew," he panted. "You're a mountain goat, Lisa." She didn't smile. "I've liked your coming to see us" she said. "I like to listen to you talk. I like the tales you tell of the old ones. But Mag and Nell are upset." He knew what was coming. His eyes met hers, and then he looked away and reddened and felt sorry for her and what he would have to tell her. This was a subject they had managed to avoid ever since that first day, although the older women brought it up whenever he saw them. "Mag says I must have a man," Lisa said. Her voice was tight. He couldn't tell if she was crying because he couldn't bear to look at her. He could only stare out over the canyon and listen and wait. "She says if it isn't you I'll have to find someone else, later on, but she says it ought to be you. Because they're dangerous, and besides, if it's you our children will be sure to be like us." "What?" He swung around, startled. "Do you mean that if one parent were normal the child might be too?" "Yes," she said. "It might. They say that's happened. Sometimes. No one knows why we're born. No one knows why some are one way and some another." "Lisa..." He stopped. "I know. You don't want me. I've known that all the time." "It isn't just that." He tried to find the words to express what he felt, but anything he might say would be cold and cruel and not quite true. He felt the contentment drain out of him, and he felt annoyed, because he didn't want to have to thipk about her problem, or about anything. "Why do they want you to have a child?" he said roughly. "Why do they want our kind to go on, living here like animals, or taken to the valleys and separated from each other and put into institutions until we die? Why don't they admit that we've lost, that the normals own the Earth? Why don't they stop breeding and let us die?" "Your parents were normal, Eric. If all of us died, others would be born, someday." He nodded and then he closed his eyes and fought against the despair that rose suddenly within him and blotted out the last of the contentment and the unreality. He fought against it and lost. And suddenly Lisa was very real, more real even than the books had ever been. And the dirty old women were suddenly people -- individuals, not savages. He tried to pity them, to retreat into his pity and his loneliness, but he couldn't even do that. The people he had looked for were imaginary. He would never find them, because Mag and Nell and Lisa w'ere his people. They were like him. and the only difference between him and them was one of luck. They were dirty and ignorant. They had been born in the mountains and hunted like beasts. He was more fortunate; he had been born in the valley. He was a snob. He had looked down on them, when all the time he was one of them. If he had been born among them, he would have been as they were. And, if Lisa had lived in another age, she too would have sought the stars. Eric sat very still and fought until a little of the turmoil quieted inside of him. Then he opened his eyes again and stared across the canyon, at the rock slides and the trees growing out from the slopes at twisting, precarious angles, and he saw everything in a new light. He saw the old race as it had been far earlier than the age of spacetravel, and he knew that it had conquered many environments on Earth before it had gained a chance to try for those of space. He felt humble, suddenly, and proud at the same time. Lisa sat beside him, not speaking, drawing away from him and letting him be by himself, as if she knew the conflicts within him and knew enough not to interrupt. He w-as grateful both for her presence there beside him and for her silence. Much later, when afternoon shadows had crept well out from the rocks, she turned to him. "Will you take me to the valley someday, Eric?" "Maybe. But no one must know about you. You know what would happen if any of them found out you even existed." "Yes," she said. "We'd have to be careful, all right. But you could take me for a ride in the aircar sometime and show me things." Before, he would have shrugged off her w'ords and forgotten them. Now he couldn't. Decision crystalized quickly in his mind. "Come on, Lisa," he said, getting to his feet and reaching down to help her up also. "I'll take you to the valley right now." She looked up at him, unable to speak, her eyes shining, and then she was running ahead of him, down the slope toward the aircar. from the valley floor, up between the canyon walls and above them, over the crest of the hills. He circled it for a moment, banking it over on its side so that she could look down at the gorge and the rocks and the cascading stream. "How do you like it, Lisa?" "I don't know." She smiled, rather weakly, her body braced against the seat. "It feels so strange." He smiled back and straightened the car, turning away from the mountains until the great, gardened valley stretched out before them, all the way to the foot of the western hills. "I'll show you the museum," he said. "I only wish I could take you inside." She moved away from him, nearer to the window, and looked down at the scattered houses that lay below them, at the people moving in the gardens, at the children. "I never dreamed it was like this," she said. "I never could picture it before." There was a longing in her face he'd never noticed before. He stared at her, and she was different suddenly, and her thin muscular body was different too. Pioneer -- that was the word he wanted. The girls of the new race could never be pioneers. "Look, Eric. Over there. Aircars." The words broke in on his thoughts and he looked away from her, following her gaze incuriously, not much interested. And then his fingers stiffened on the controls and the peacefulness fell away from him as if it had never been. "Lots of them," she said. Aircars. Eight or ten of them, more than he had ever seen at one time, spread out in a line and flying eastward, straight toward him. They mustn't see Lisa. They mustn't get close enough to realize who he was. He swung away from them, perpendicular to their course, angling so that he would be out of perception range, and then he circled, close to the ground, as they swept by, undeviating, purposeful, toward the mountains. Toward the mountains. Fear. Sudden, numbing fear and the realization of his own carelessness. "What's the matter, Eric?" He had swung about and now followed them, far behind them and ofF to one side, much too far away for them to try to perceive him. Perhaps, lie thought, perhaps they don't know. But all the time he remembered his own trips to the canyon, taken so openly. "Oh, Eric, they're not -- " He swung up over the last ridge and looked down, and her words choked ofT in her throat. Below them lay the canyon, and in it, the long line of aircars, landed now, cutting olT the gorge, the light reflecting oil them, bronze in the sunset. And the tiny figures of men were even now spreading out from the cars. "What'll wc do, Eric?" Panic. In her voice and in her eyes and in her fingers that bit into his arm, hurting him, steadying him against his own fear and the twisting realization of his betraying lack of caution. "Run. What clcse can wc do?" Down back over the ridge, out of sight of the aircars and into the foothills, and all the while knowing that there was nowhere to run to now. "No, Eric! We've got to go back. We've got to find Mag and Nell -- " Her voice rose in anguish, then broke, and she was crying. "We can't help them by going hack," he said harshly. "Maybe they got away. Maybe they didn't. But the others would catch us for sure if they got near us." Run. It was all they could do, now. Run to other hills and leave the aircar and hide, and live as Lisa had lived, as others of their kind had lived. "We've got to think of ourselves, Lisa. It's all we can do, now." Down through the foothills, toward the open valley, and the future, the long blind race to other mountains, and no choice left, no alternative, and the books lost and the starship left behind, forever... Lisa cried, and her fingers bit into his arm. Ahead of him, too close to flee or deceive, was another line of aircars, flying in from the valley, their formation breaking as they veered toward him. "Land, Eric. Land and run!" "We can't, Lisa. There's not enough time." Everything was lost now -- even the hills. Unless... one chance. The only chance, and it was nearly hopeless. "Get in the back, Lisa," he said. "Climb over the seat and hide in that storage compartment. And stay there." The two nearest cars had swung about now and paralleled his course, flanking him, drifting in nearer and nearer. "Why?" Lisa clung to him. "What are you going to do?" "They don't know you're with me. They probably don't even know I went back to the canyon. They think I'll land at the museum, not suspecting anything's wrong. So I'll do just what they expect me to. Go back, and pretend I don't know a thing." "You're mad." "It's our only chance, Lisa. If only they don't lock me up tonight... She clung to him for still another minute and then she climbed over the seat and he heard the luggage compartment panel slide open and, a moment later, shut. The nearest aircar drifted still closer to him, escorting him westward, toward the museum. Behind him, other cars closed in. waiting for him at the entrance of the main building, just as they had waited so often before. He greeted them casually, trying to act exactly as he usually did. but # # their greetings to him were far from casual. They stared at him oddly, Prior even drawing back a little as he approached. Walden looked at him for a long moment, very seriously, as if trying to tell him something, but what it was Eric didn't know. Both men were worried, their anxiety showing in their manner, and Eric wondered if he himself showed the fear that gripped him. They must know what had happened. By now probably every normal person within a hundred miles of the museum must know. At the entrance he glanced back idly and saw that one of the aircars that had followed him had landed and that the others were angling ofT again, leaving. It was too dark to see how many men got out of the car. but Walden and Prior were facing in that direction, communicating, and Eric knew that they knew. Everything. It was like a trap around him, with each of their minds a strand of the net, and he was unable to see which strands were about to entangle him, unable to see if there were any holes through which he might escape. All he could do was pretend that he didn't even know the net existed, and wait. Half a dozen men came up to Prior and Walden. One of them was Abbot. His face was very stern, and when he glanced over at where Eric stood in the building entrance his face grew even sterner. Eric watched them for a moment; then he went inside, the way he usually did when there were lots of people around. He wished he knew what they were saying. He wished he knew what was going to happen. He went on into the library and pulled out a book at random and sat down and started turning the pages. He couldn't read. He kept waiting for them to come in, for one of them to lay a hand on his shoulder and tell him to come along, that they knew he had found other people like himself and that he was a danger to their race and that they were going to lock him up somewhere. What would happen to Lisa? They'd find her, of course. She could never escape alone, on foot, to the hills. What had happened to Mag and Nell? No one came. He knew that their perceptions lay all around him, but he could sense no emotions, no thoughts but his own. He sat and waited, his eyes focused on the book but not seeing it. It seemed hours before anyone came. Then Prior and Abbot and Walden were in the archway, looking across at him. Prior's face was still worried, Abbot's stern, Walden's reassuring... Eric forced himself to smile at them and then torn another page and pretend to go on reading. After a moment he heard their footsteps retreating, and when he looked up again they were gone. He sat a while longer and then he got up and walked down the ramp and stood for a few minutes looking at the ship, because that too would be expected of him. He felt nothing. The ship was a world away now, mocking him, for his future no longer lay in the past, with the old race, but out in the hills. If he had a future at all... He went up the ramp again, toward his own room. No one else was in sight. They had all gone to bed, perhaps. They wouldn't expect him to try to run away now. He began to walk, as aimlessly as he could, in the direction of the aircar. He saw no one. Perhaps it wasn't even guarded. He circled around it, still seeing no one ; then, feeling more secure suddenly, he went directly toward it and reached up to open the panel and climb in. "Is that you, Eric?" Walden's voice. Quiet as always. And it came from inside the car. up at the ship, trying to see Walden's face and unable to find it in the darkness. He didn't answer -- couldn't answer. He listened, and heard nothing except Walden, there above him, moving on the seat. Where was Lisa? "I thought you'd come back here," Walden said. He climbed down out of the aircar and stood facing Eric, his body a dim shadow. "Why are you here?" Eric whispered. "I wanted to see you. Without the others knowing it. I was sure you'd come here tonight." Walden. Always Walden. First his teacher and then his friend, and now the one man who stood between him and freedom. For a second Eric felt his muscles tense and he stiffened, ready to leap upon the older man and knock him down and take the ship and run. Then he relaxed. It was a senseless impulse, primitive and useless. "The odiers don't know you have any idea what's happened, Eric. But I could tell. It was written all over you." "What did they find, Walden?" The old man sighed, and when he spoke his voice was very tired. "They found two women. They tried to capture them, but the women ran out on a ledge. The older one slipped and fell and the other tried to catch her and she fell too. They were dead when the men reached them." Eric listened, and slowly his tension relaxed, replaced by a dull ache of mourning. But he knew that he was glad to hear that they were dead and not captured, not dragged away from the hills to be bathed and well fed and imprisoned forever under the eyes of the new race. "The old one was blind," Walden said. "It may have been her blindness that caused her to fall." "It wasn't." "No, Eric, it probably wasn't " They were silent for a moment, and there was no sound at all except for their own breathing. Eric wondered if Lisa still hid in the aircar, if she was listening to them, afraid and hopeless and crying over the death of her people. "Whv did you come out here. Walden?" "To sec you. I came today, when I realized how suspicious the council had grown. I was going to warn you, to tell you to keep away from the hills, that they wanted an ex cusc to lock you up. I was too late." "I was careless, Walden." He felt guilt twist inside of him. "No. You didn't know the danger. I should have warned you sooner. But I never dreamed you would find anyone in the hills, Eric. I never dreamed there were any more without perception, this generation." Eric moved nearer the car and leaned against it, the cold plastic next to his body cooling him a little, steadying him against the feverish trembling that shook his legs and sent sweat down over him and made him too weak, suddenly, to want to struggle further. "Let me go. Walden. Let me take the car and go." Walden didn't move. He stood quietly, a tall thin shape in the darkness. "There are other people the searchers didn't find, aren't there? And you're going to them." Eric didn't answer. He looked past Walden, at the car, wishing he could somehow call to Lisa, wishing they could perceive so that he could reassure her and promise her that somehow he'd still take her to freedom. But it would be an empty promise... "I've warned vou too late. You've found your people, but it won't do you any good. They'll hunt you through the hills, and I won't be able to help you any more." Eric looked back at him, hearing the sadness in his voice. It was real sadness, real emotion. He thought of the years he had spent with Walden, learning, absorbing the old race knowledge, and he remembered that all through those years Walden had never once made him feel uncomfortable because of the difference between them. He looked at the old man for a long time, wishing that it was day so he could read the other's expression, wondering how he had managed to take this man for granted for so long. "Why?" he whispered. "Why are you helping me? Why aren't you like the others?" "I never had a son, Eric. Perhaps that's the reason." Eric thought of Myron and shook his head. "No, it isn't that. My father doesn't feel the way you do. He can't forget that I'm not normal. With him, I'm always aware of the difference." "And you're not with me?" "No," Eric said. "I'm not. Why?" And he wondered why he had never asked that question before. "The final question," Walden said softly. "I wondered how long it would be before you asked it. I wondered if you'd ever ask it. "Haven't you ever thought about why I never married. Eric? Haven't you ever asked yourself why I alone learned to read, and collected books, and studied the old race?" "No," Eric admitted. "I just accepted you." "Even though I can perceive and you can't." Walden paused and Eric waited, not knowing what was coming and yet sure that nothing could surprise him now. "My father was normal," Walden said slowly. "But I never saw him. My mother was like you. So was my brother. We lived in the hills and I was the only one who could perceive. I learned what it was to be different." Eric stared. He couldn't stop staring. And yet he should have realized, long ago, that Walden was different too, in his own way. face, shadowed in moonlight, as quiet and as understanding as ever. For a moment neither spoke, and there was only the faraway sound of crickets chirping and the rustling of the wind in the gardens. And then, from within the aircar, there was a different rustling, that of a person moving. "Lisa!" Eric pushed the compartment panel back. The soft light came on automatically, framing her where she curled against the far wall. "You heard us # " She nodded. Tears had dried on her cheeks. Her eyes were huge in her thin face. "We'd better go, Lisa." He reached in to help her out. They didn't see the aircar dropping in for a landing until it was almost upon them, until its lights arced down over the museum walls. "Hide, Eric. In here -- " Lisa pulled him forward. Behind them, Walden's voice, suddenly tired in the darkness. "It's too late. They know I'm here. And they're wondering why." The three of them stood frozen, watching each other, while the dark shape of the car settled to the ground some thirty yards away. "It's Abbot," Walden said. He paused, intent for a moment, and added, "He doesn't know about you. Get out of sight somewhere, both of you, away from here -- " "Come on, Lisa -- " Eric swung away from the car, toward the shelter of the building and whatever hiding place there might be. "Hurry!" They ran, and the museum rose in front of them, and the door was open. They were through it and into the dim corridor, and there was no one around; Walden's figure was lost in the night outside. Beyond the libraries the great ramp spiraled downward. "This wav, Lisa! They came out into the bottom of the well and there in front of them the starship rested. Still reaching upward. Still waiting, as it had waited for so many uncounted years. Their ship -- if only it could be their ship... "Oh, Eric!" Side by side they stood staring at it, and Eric wished that they could get into it and go, right now, while thev were still free and there was no one to stop them. But they couldn't. There was no food in the ship, no plant tanks, none of the many provisions the books listed. Besides, if they took off now they would destroy the museum and all the people in it. and probably kill themselves as well. "Eric! We know you're down there!" It wasn't Walden's voice. Lisa moved closer. Eric put his arm around her and held her while footsteps hurried toward them down the ramp. The council. Abbot and Drew and the others. Prior, shaking his head. Walden. "Let us go," Eric cried. "Why won't you let us go?" Walden turned to the others. His eyes pleaded with them. Ilis lips moved and his hands were expressive, gesturing. But the others stood without moving, without expression. Then Abbot pushed Walden aside and started forward, his face hard and determined and unchangeable. "You won't let us go," Eric said. "No. You're fools, both of you." There was one answer, only one answer, and with it, a hot violence in his blood as the old race pattern came into focus, as the fear and the futility fell away. It was only a few steps to the ship. Eric caught Lisa's arm and pulled her after him and ran toward it, reaching up to the door. In one motion he flung i.t open and lifted her through it, then he swung about to face the others. "Let us go!" he shouted. "Promise to let us go. or we'll take off anyway and if we die at least you'll die too!" Abbot stopped. He looked back at Walden, his face scornful. "You see?" he said aloud. "They're mad. And you let this happen." He turned away, dismissing Walden, and came toward the ship. The others followed him. Eric waited. He stood with his back to the door, waiting, as Abbot strode toward him. ahead of the other councilmen, alone and unprotected. "You're the fool!" Eric said. He laughed as he leaped forward. Abbot's eyes went wide suddenly; he tried to dodge, gave a little grunt, and went limp in Eric's grasp. Eric laughed again, swung Abbot into the ship and leaped in himself. The old race and its violence had never been nearer. He slammed the door shut, bolted it, and turned back to where the councilman was struggling to his feet. "Now will you let us go?" Eric said softly. "Or must we take olT now, with you -- for the stars?" For a long moment Abbot looked at him. and then his lips trembled and his whole body went slack in defeat. "The ship is yours," he whispered. "Just let me go." Outside the ship, Walden chuckled wryly. strange against Eric's body, as strange as the straps that bound him to the couch. He looked over at Lisa and she too was unrecognizable. a great bloated slug tied down beside him. Only her face, frightened behind the helmet, looked human. He reached for the controls, then paused, glancing down through the view screens at the ground, at the people two hundred feet below, tiny ants scurrying away from the ship, running to shelter but still looking up at him. He couldn't see his parents or Walden. His fingers closed about the control lever but still he stared down. Everything that had been familiar all his life stood out sharply now, because he was leaving and it would never be there again for him. And he had to remember what it was like... Then he looked up. The sky was blue and cloudless above him, and there were no stars at all. But he knew that beyond the sky the stars were shining. And perhaps, somewhere amid the stars, the old race waited. He turned to Lisa. "This may be goodbye, darling." "It may be. But it doesn't matter, really." They had each other. It was enough. Even though they could never be as close to each other as the new race was close. They were separate, with a gulf always between their inmost thoughts, but they could bridge that gulf, sometimes. He turned back to the controls and his fingers tightened. The last line of the poem shouted in his mind, and he laughed, for he knew finally what the poet had meant, what the old race had lived for. Wc have cast off the planets like outgrown toys, and now we want the stars... He pulled the lever back and the ship sprang free. A terrible weight pressed against him, crushing him, stifling him. But still he laughed, because he was one of the old race, and he was happy. And the meaning of his life lay in the search itself. ship until it was only a tiny speck in the sky, and then they looked away from it, at each other. A wave of perception swept among them, drawing them closer to each other in the face of something they couldn't understand. "Why did they go?" Abbot asked, in his mind. "Why did any of the old race go?" Walden answered. The sunlight flashed off the ship, and then it was gone. "It's not surprising that the old race died," Abbot said. "They were did such strange things. Their lives seemed so completely meaningless..." Walden didn't answer for a moment. His eyes searched the sky for a last glimpse of the ship, but there was nothing at all. He sighed, and he looked at Abbot, and then past him, at all the others. "I wonder," he said, "how long it will be before some other race says the same thing about us." No one answered. He turned and walked away from them, across the trampled flowers, toward the museum and the great empty vault where the starship had waited for so long. startl'd at the Ivy. which is a moving picture house in Cave Junction built like a big quonset. It's the only show in these pails. and most of us old-timers up here in die timber country of southwest  Oregon have got into the habit of going to see a picture on Saturday nights before we head for a tavern. But I don't think old Doc Yoris, who was there with Lew and Rusty The trees on Mars are few and stunted, says old Doc Yoris. There's plenty of iold, of course -- but trees  an be much more important! By Arthur Dekker Savage lllustrotcd by Philip Pur sops and me, had been to more than two or three shows in his life. Doc i' kind of sensitive about his appearance on acount of his small eyes and big nose and ears; and since gold mining gave way to logging and lumber mills, with Outsiders drifting into the country. Doc has taken to staying on his homestead away back up along Deer Creek, near the boundary of the Siskiyou National Forest. It's gotten so he'll come to Cave Junction only after dark, and even then he wears dark glasses so strangers won't notice him too much. I couldn't see' anything funny about the picture when Doc started laughing, but I figure it's a man's own business when he wants to laugh, so I didn't say anything. The show was one of these scientific things, and when Doc began to cackle it was showing some men getting out of a rocket ship on Mars and running over to look at some trees. Rusty, who's top choker setter in our logging outfit, was trying to see Doc's point. He can snare logs with a hunk of steel cable faster than anyone I know, but he's never had much schooling. He turned to Doc. "I don't get it, Doc," he said. "What's the deal?" Doc kept chuckling. "It's them trees," he said. "There's no trees like that on Mars." "Oh," said Rusty. I suppose it was just chance that Burt Holden was sitting behind us and heard the talk. Burt is one of the newcomers. He'd conic down from Grants Pass and started a big lumber mill and logging outfit, and was trying to freeze out the little operators. He growled something about keeping quiet. That got Rusty and Lew kind of mad, and Lew turned around and looked at Burt. Lew is even bigger than Burt, and things might have got interesting, but I wanted to see the rest of the picture. I nudged him and asked him if he had a chew. They won't let you smoke in the show, but it's okay to chew, and most of us were in the habit anyway, because there's too much danger of forest fire when you smoke on the job. Doc laughed every time the screen showed trees, and I could hear Burt humping around in his seat like he was irritated. XI drifted over to the Owl Tavern and took a table against the north wall, behind the pool tables and across from the bar. Doc had put his dark glasses back on, and he sat facing the wall. Not that many people apart from the Insiders knew Doc. He hadn't been very active since the young medical doctor had come to Cave Junction in #, although he never turned down anyone who came for help, and as far as I knew he'd never lost a patient unless he was already dead when Doc got there. We were kidding Lew because he was still wearing his tin hat and caulked boots from work. "You figuring on starting early in the morning?" I asked him. Rusty and Doc laughed. It was a good joke because we rode out to the job in my jeep, and so we'd naturally get there at the same time. Then Rusty sat up straightcr and looked over at the bar. "Hey," he said, "Pop's talking to Burt Holden." Pop Johnson owns our outfit. He's one of the small operators that guys like Burt are trying to squeeze out. "Hope he don't try to rook Pop into no deals," said Lew. Doc tipped up his bottle of beer. In Oregon they don't sell anything but beer in the taverns. "Times change," he said. "Bark in # all they wanted was gold. Now they're trying to take all the tires." "It's the big opeiators like Burt." I said "Little guvs like Pop can't cut 'em as fast as they grow. The companies don't have to reseed, either, except on National Forest land." "That Burt Holden was up to my place couple weeks ago," said Doc. "Darn near caught me skinning out a deer." "He better not vnp to the game warden." said Rusty. "Them laws is for sports and Outsiders, not us guys who need the meat." "He wanted to buv all mv tim# # ber." said Doc. "Offered me ten dollars a thousand board feet, on the stump." "Don't sell." I advised him. "If Butt oilers that much, almost anyone else will pay twelve." Doc looked at me. "I'd never sell my trees. Not at any price. I got a hundred and sixty acres of virgin stand, and that's the way it's gonna stav. I cut up the windfalls and snags for firewood, and that's all." "Here conies Pop." said Lew. Pop sat down with us and had a beer. He looked worried. We didn't ask him any questions, because we fig li t e a man will talk if he wants to. and if he doesn't it's his own business. He finally unlimbered. "Burt Holden wants to buv the mill." he said, wiping I I is mouth on the back of his hand. "Buy your mill?" said Lew. "Hell, his mill is five times as big. and he's even got a burner to take care ol slashings, so he don't have to shut down in the lire season." "He just wants the land." said Pop. "because it's near the highway. He wants to le.u down my setup and build a pulp mill." "A Jmlp mill!" If we could have seen Doc's eves through the glasses I imagine they'd have been popped open a full hall inch. "Why, then they'll be cutting down everything but the brush!" Pop nodded. "Yeah. Size of a log don't matter when you make paper -- just so it's wood." It seemed a though Doe was talking to himself. "They'll strip the land down bare," he mumbled. "And the hills will wash a wav. and thehemieals they use in the mill will kill the lish in the creeks and 'That's whv tliev won't let anyone stait a pulp mill near Giants Pa'S." said Pop. "Most of the town's money comes from sports who come up to the Rogue River to fish." Rusty set his jaw. "In the winter we need them fish." he 'aid. He was right, too. The woods elose down in tinwinter, on account of the snow, and if a man can't hunt and fish he's liable to get kind of hungrv. That rocking chair rnonev doesn't stretch verv far. "I ain't gonna sell," said Pop. "But that won't stop Burt Holden, and any place he builds the mill around here will drain into the Doc pushed hack his chair and stood up to his lull height of five foot four. "I'm gonna talk to Burt Holden." he said. Rusty stood up to his six foot three. "I'll bring him over here. Doc," he said. "We're handy to the cue rack here, and Lew and Simmons can keep them guys he's with off my back." I stood up and shoved Rusty back down. I'm no taller than he is, but I outweigh him about twenty pounds. I started working in the woods when we still felled trees with axes and misery whips -- crosscut saws to the Outsiders. "I'll go get him," I said. "You're still mad about the show, and you wouldn't be able to get him this far without mussing him up." "There won't be no trouble," said Doc. "I just want to make him an offer." Doc wanted to talk to him. The three guys with him followed us back to the table. Burt figured he knew what it was all about, and he just stood over Doc and looked down on him. "If it's about your timber, Yoris," he said, "I'll take it, but I can't pay you more than nine dollars now. Lumber's coming down, and I'm taking a chance even at that." He rocked back and forth on his heels and looked at Pop as though daring him to say different. "I still don't want to sell, Mr. Holden," said Doc. "But I've got place, and I'll give it to you if you won't put a pulp mill anywhere in We were all floored at that, but Burt recovered first. He gave a nasty laugh. "Not interested, Yoris. If you want to sell, look me up." "Wait!" said Doc. "A pulp mill will take every tree in the Valley. In a few years -- " "It'll make money, too," said Burt flatly. "Money ain't everything by a long shot. It won't buy trees and creeks and rain." "It'll buy trees to make lumber." Burt was getting mad. "I don't want any opposition from you, Yoris. I've had enough trouble from people who try to hold back progress. If you don't like the way we run things here, you can -- hell, you can go back to Mars!" It seemed to me that it was just about time to start in. I could have taken Burt easiest, but I knew Rusty would probably swing on him first and get in my way, so I planned to work on the two guys on Burt's right, leaving the one on his left for Lew. I didn't want Pop to get tangled up in it. I don't generally wait too long after I make up my mind, but then I noticed Rusty reaching out slowly for a cue stick, and I thought maybe I'd better take Burt first, while Rusty got set. I never did see a guy so one way about having something in his hands. But Doc didn't drop out. "There ain't nothing but a few scrub trees on Mars," he said to Burt, looking him square in the eye. "And no creeks and no rain." Burt curled his lip sarcastically. "The hell you say! Is that why you didn't like it there?" You could see he was just trying to egg Doc into saying he'd come from Mars, so he could give him the horse laugh. The guys he was with were getting set for a fracas, but they were waiting for Burt to lead off. Doc didn't get caught. "But there's gold," he said, like he hadn't heard Burt at all. "Tons of it -- laying all over the ground." I guess Burt decided to ride along. "Okay, Yoris," he said. "Tell you what I'll do. For only one ton of Martian gold I'll agree to drop all plans for a pulp mill, here or anywhere else. In fact, I II get out of business altogether." Doc moved in like a log falling out of the loading tongs. "That's a deal," he said. "You ready to go?" Burt started to look disgusted, then he smiled. "Sure. Mars must be quite a place if you came from there." "Okay," said Doc. "You just stand up against the wall, Mr. Holden." Burt's smile faded. He figured Doc was trying to maneuver him into a likely position for us. But Doc cleared that up quick. "You boys get up and stand aside," he ordered. "Get back a ways and give Mr. Holden plenty of room." We didn't like it, but we cleared out from around the table. A bunch from the bar and pool tables, sensing something was up, came drifting over to watch. I could feel tension building up. "Now." said Doc, pointing, "you just stand right over there, Mr. Holden, and fold your arms." Burt didn't like the audience, and I guess he figured his plans were backfiring when Doc didn't bluff. "You hill-happy old coot," he "It's probably ridiculous, but they appear to be some sort of parking meters " snarled. "You'd better go home and sleep it off!" I grabbed hold of Lew's arm and shook my head at Rusty. I wasn't going to interfere with Doc now. "You're not scared, are you, Mr. Holden?" said Doc quietly. "Just you stand against the wall and take it easy. It won't hurt a bit." tough for an Outsider, and a hard-headed businessman to boot, but he'd never run into a customer like Doc before. You could see him trying to make up his mind on how to handle this thing. He glanced around quick at the crowd, and I could tell he decided to play it out to where Doc would have to draw in his horns. He actually grinned, for the effect it would have on everybody watching. "All right, Yoris," he said. He backed against the wall and folded his arms. "But hadn't you better stand up here with me?" "I ain't going," said Doc. "I don't like Mars. But you won't have no trouble getting your gold. There's nuggets the size of your fist laying all over the dry river beds." "I hate to be nosey," said Burt, playing to the crowd, "but how are you going to get me there?" "With his head, o' course!" blurted Rusty before I could stop him. "Just like he cures you when you're sick!" Doc had pulled Rusty through two or three bad kid sicknesses -- and a lot of the rest of us. too. "Yep," said Doc. "A man don't need one of them rocket things to get between here and Mars. Fact is, I never seen one." Burt looked at the ceiling like he was a martyr, then back at Doc. "Well, Yoris," he said in a tone that meant he was just about through humoring him, "I'm waiting. Can you send me there or can't you?" The start of a nasty smile was beginning to show at the corners of his mouth. "Sure," said Doc. He slumped down in his chair and cupped his hands lightly around his dark glasses. I noticed his fingers trembling a little against his forehead. The lights dimmed, flickered and want out, and we waited for the bartender to put in a new fuse. The power around here doesn't go haywire except in the winter, when trees fall across the lines. A small fight started over in a corner. When the lights came back on, Doc and Pop started for the door, and Lew and Rusty and I followed. Burt's buddies were looking kind of puzzled, and a few old-timers were moving over to watch the fight. The rest were heading back to the bar. Rusty piled into the jeep with Doc and me. "When you going to bring him back, Doc?" he asked when we started moving. "Dunno," said Doc. He took off his glasses to watch me shift gears. He's been after me for a long time to teach him how to drive. "It only works on a man once."   Daylight sometimes hides secrets that darkness will reveal -- the Martian's glowing eyes, for instance. But darkness has other dangers... By James McKimmey, Jr. Illustrated by Paul Orban ly around the dinner table at the five men, hiding his examination by a thin screen of smoke Irom his cigar. He was a large man with thick blond-gray hair cut close to his head. In three more months he would be fiftv-two. hut his face and body had the vital look of a man fifteen years younger. He was the President of the Superior Council, and he had been in that post -- the highest post on the occupied planet of Mars -- four of the six years he had lived here. As his eyes flicked from one face to another his fingers unconsciously tapped the table, making a sound like a miniature drum roll. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Five top officials, selected, tested, screened on Earth to form the nucleus of governmental rule on Mars. Heidel's bright narrow eyes flicked, his fingers drummed. Which one? Who was the imposter, the ringer? Who was the Martian? Sadler's dry voice cut through the silence: "This is not just an ordinary meeting then, Mr. President?" Heidel's cigar came up and was clamped between his teeth. He stared into Sadler's eyes. "No, Sadler, it isn't. This is a very special meeting." He grinned around the cigar. "This is where we take the clothes off the sheep and find the wolf." Heidel watched the five faces. Sadler, Meehan, Locke, Forbes, Clarke. One of them. Which one? "I'm a little thick tonight," said Harry Locke. "I didn't follow what you meant." "No, no, of course not," Heidel said, still grinning. "I'll explain it." He could feel himself alive at that moment, every nerve singing, every muscle toned. His brain was quick and his tongue rolled the words out smoothly. This was the kind of situation Heidel handled best. A tense, dramatic situation, full of atmosphere and suspense. "Here it is," Heidel continued, "simply and briefly." He touched the cigar against an ash tray, watching with slitted shining eyes while the ashes spilled away from the glowing tip. He bent forward suddenly. "We have an imposter among us, gentlemen. A spy." He waited, holding himself tense against the table, letting the sting of his words have their effect. Then he leaned back, carefully. "And tonight I am going to expose this imposter. Right here, at this table." He searched the faces again, looking for a tell-tale twitch of a muscle, a movement of a hand, a shading in the look of an eye. There were only Sadler, Meehan, Locke, Forbes, Clarke, looking like themselves, quizzical, polite, respecting. "One of us, you say," Clarke said noncommittally, his phrase neither a question nor a positive statement. "That is true," said Heidel. "Bit of a situation at that," said Forbes, letting a faint smile touch his lips. "Understatement, Forbes," Heidel said. "Understatement." "Didn't mean to sound capricious," Forbes said, his smile gone. "Of course not," Heidel said. Edward Clarke cleared his throat. "May I ask, sir, how this was discovered and how it was narrowed down to the Superior Council?" "Surely," Heidel said crisply. "No need to go into the troubles we've been having. You know all about that. But how these troubles originated is the important thing. Do you remember the missionary affair?" "When we were going to convert the Eastern industrial section?" "That's right," Heidel said, remembering. "Horrible massacre." "Bloody," agreed John Meehan. "Sixty-seven missionaries lost," Heidcl said. "I remember the Martian note of apology," Forbes said. " 'We have worshipped our own God lor two-hundred thousand years. We  would prefer to continue. Thank you.' Blinking nerve, eh?" "Neither here nor there," Hcidel said abruptly. "The point is that no one knew those sixty-seven men were missionaries except myself and you five men." in front of him. "One case," he said. "Here's another. Do vou recall when we outlawed the free selection system?" "Another bloodv one," said Sadler. "Forty-eight victims in that case," Heidcl said. "Forty-eight honorable colonists, sanctioned by us to legally marry any couple on the planet, and sent out over the country to abolish the horrible f reclove situation." "Forty-eight justices of the peace dead as pickerels," Forbes said. "Do you happen to remember that note of apology?" Hcidel asked, a slight edge in his voice. He examined Forbes' eves. "Matter of fact, yes," said Forbes, returning Heidel's stare steadily. " 'You love vour wav. we'll love ours.' Terriblv caustic, what?" "Terribly," said Heidel. "Although that too is neither here nor there. The point again, no one except the six of us right here knew what those forty-eight men were sent out to do." Hcidel straightened in his chair. The slow grating voice of Forbes had taken some of the sharpness out of the situation. lie wanted to hold their attention minutely, so that when he was ready, the dramatics of his action would lie tense and telling. "There is no use," he said, "in going into the details of the other incidents. You remember them. When w-e tried to install a free press, the Sensible Art galleries, IAm-A-Martian Day, wrestling, and all the rest." "I remember the wrestling business awfully well," said Forbes. "Martians drove a wrestler through the street in a yellow jetmobile. Had flowers around his neck and a crown on his head. He was dead, of course. Stuffed, I think..." "All right," snapped Heidel. "Each one of our efforts to offer these people a chance to benefit from our culture was snapped oil' at the bud. And only a leak in the Superior Council could have caused it. It is a simple matter of deduction. There is one of us, here tonight, who is responsible. And I am going to expose him." HcidePs voice w'as a low' vibrant sound that echoed in the large dining room. 'Fhc five men waited. Forbes, his long arms crossed. Sadler, his eyes on his fingernails. Meehan, blinking placidly. Clarke, twirling his thumbs. Locke, examining his cigarette. "Kessit!" Heidel called. A gray-haired man in a black butler's coat appeared. "We'll have our wine now," Heidel said. There was a slight quirk in his mouth, so that his teeth showed between his lips. The butler moved methodically from place to place, pouring wine from a silver decanter. "Now then, Kessit," Heidel said, when the butler had finished, "would you be kind enough to fetch me that little pistol from the mantel over there?" He smiled outwardly this time. The situation was right again; he was handling things, inch by inch, without interruption. He took the gun from the old man's hands and said, "One thing more, Kessit. Would you please light the candles on the table and turn out the rest of the lights in the room. I've always been a romanticist," Heidel said, smiling around the table. "Candlelight with my wine." "Oh, excellent," said Locke soberly. "Quite," said Forbes.  Heidel nodded and waited while the butler lit the candles and snapped off the overhead lights. The yellow flames wavered on the table as the door closed gently behind the butler. "Now, then," Heidel said, feeling the tingling in his nerves. "This, gentlemen, is a replica of an antique of the twentieth century. A working replica, I might add. It was called a P-#, if my memory serves me." He held the pistol up so that the candlelight reflected against the glistening black handle and the blue barrel. There was a polite murmur as the five men stretched forward to look at the gun in Heidel's hands. "Crude," Sadler said. "But devilish looking," Forbes added. "My hobby," Heidel said. "I would like to add that not only do I collect these small arms, but I am very adept at using them. Something I will demonstrate to you very shortly," he added, grinning. "Say now," nodded Meehan. "That should be jolly," Forbes said, laughing courteously. "I believe it will at that," Heidel said. "Now if you will notice, gentlemen," he said touching the clip ejector of the pistol and watching the black magazine slip out into his other hand, "I have but five cartridges in the clip. Just five. You see?" They all bent forward, blinking. "Good," said Heidel, shoving the clip back into the grip of the gun. He couldn't keep his lips from curling in his excitement, but his hands were as steady as though his nerves had turned to ice. The five men leaned back in their chairs. "Now then, Meehan," he said to the man at the opposite end of the table. "Would you mind moving over to your left, so that the end of the table is clear?" "Oh?" said Meehan. "Yes, of course." He grinned at the others, and there was a ripple of amusement as Meehan slid his chair to the left. "Yes," said Heidel. "All pretty foolish-looking, perhaps. But it won't be in a few minutes when I discover the bastard of a Martian who's in this group, I'll tell you that!" His voice rose and rang in the room, and he brought the glistening pistol down with a crack against the table. Ileidel found his smile again. "All light, now I'll explain a hit further. Before Dr. Kingly, the head of our laboratory, died a few days ago, he made a vei peculiar discovery. As you know, then has been ' i mo evidence to indicate that the Martian is anv dilicrent. physically, from the Eartlmian. Not until I)r. Kinglv made hi.-, discovery, that is." Ileidel looked from face to face. "This is how it happened," he went on. "Dr Kinglv,..." He puu.-ed and glanced about in false surprise. "I beg you pardon, gentlemen. We might as well be enjoying our wine. Excellent port. Very old, I believe. Shall we?" he asked, raising his glass. f ive other glasses .shimmered in the candlelight. "Let us. all. toast success to the unveiling of the rotten Martian who sits among us, shall we?" Heidel's smile glinted and he drank a (piai ter of his glass. I lie live glasses tipped and were returned to the table. Again there was silence as tinmen waited. To !Zt back." Ileidel said, listening with excitement to liD own voice. "I)r. Kindly, in the process of an autopsy on a derelict Martian, made a rather startling discovcry... "I beg VO UI pardon." Forbes said. "Did  o I I sa #  airtop.-v ?" "Yes" said Ileidel. TVcVe done this frequently. Not according to base orders, von understand." He winked. "But a little infraction now and then is mves-ai v." "I see," said Forbes. "I just didn't know about that." "No, you didn't, did you?" said Ileidel, looking at Forbes closely. "A: any rate. Dr. Kingly had developed in his wul. a preserving solution which he used in such instances, thereby piolouging the line for examination of the cadaver, without experiencing deterioration of the tissues. This solution was merely injected into the blood stream, and..." "Sorry again, sir," Forbes said. "But you said blood stream?" "Yes." Ileidel nodded. "'Ellis had to be done before the cadaver was a  adaver. vou sec?" "I think so. ve." said Forbes, leaning back again. "Murdered the bastard for an autopsy, what?" IlcidcTs lingers closed around the pistol. "I don't like that, Forbes." "Terriblv sorry, sir." " lo get on." ileidel said finally, his voice a (titling sound. "Dr. Kingb had injected Iris solution and then... Well, at any rate, when lie returned to his laboratory, it was night I I is laboratory was black as pile!) I'm Irving to paint the picture for you. gentlemen and the cadaver was stretched out on a table, vou see. And before Dr. Kinglv switched on the lights, he saw the eyes ol this dead Martian  glowing in the dark like a pair of hot coals." "Wind." said Sadler, unblinking. "( ihoslly." said Clarke. "The important thing," Ileidel said curtly, "is that Dr. Kingly discovered the dillerencc. then, between the M.utian and the Enrthman. The dillerencc is the eves. The solution, vou see, had # # reacted chemically to the membranes of the eyeballs, so that as it i happened they lit up like electric lights. I won't go into what Dr. Kingly found further, when he dissected the eyeballs. Let it suffice to say, the Martian eyeball is a physical element entirely different from our own -- at least from those of five of us, I should say." His grin gleamed. He was working this precisely and carefully, and it was effective. "Now, however," he continued, "it is this sixth man who is at issue right now. The fly in the soup, shall we say. And in just a few seconds I am going to exterminate that fly." He picked up the pistol from the table. "As I told you, gentlemen, I am quite versatile with this weapon. I am a dead shot, in other words. And I am going to demonstrate it to you." He glanced from face to face. "You will notice that since Mr. Meehan has moved, I have a clear field across the table. I don't believe a little lead in the woodwork will mar the room too much, would you say, Forbes?" Forbes sat very still. "No, I shouldn't think so, sir." "Good. Because I am going to snuff out each of the four candles in the center of this table by shooting the wick away. You follow me, gentlemen? Locke? Meehan? Sadler?" Heads nodded. "Then perhaps you are already ahead of me. When the last candle is extinguished, we will have darkness, you see. And then I think we'll find our Martian rat. Because, as a matter of fact," Heidel lolled his words, "I have taken the privilege of adding to the wine we have been drinking Dr. Kingly's preserving solution. Non-tasteful, non-harmful. Except, that is, to one man in this room." Heidel motioned his gun. "And God rest the bastard's soul, because if you will remember, I have five bullets in the chamber of this pistol. Four for the candles and one for the brain of the sonofabitch whose eyes light up when the last candle goes out." silence while the flames of the candles licked at the still air. "I think, however," Heidel said, savoring the moment, "that we should have one final toast before we proceed." He lifted his glass. "May the receiver of the fifth bullet go straight to hell. I phrase that literally, gentlemen," he said, laughing. "Drink up!" The glasses were drained and placed again on the table. "Watch carefully," Heidel said and lifted the pistol. He aimed at the first candle. The trigger was taut against his finger, the explosion loud in the room. "One," said Heidel. He aimed again. The explosion. "Two," he said. "Rather good, eh?" "Oh, yes," Sadler said. "Quite," said Forbes. "Again," said Heidel. A third shot echoed. "Now," he said, pointing the muzzle at the last candle. "I would say this is it, wouldn't you, gentlemen? And as soon as this one goes. I'm afraid one of us is going to find a bullet right between his goddam sparkling eyes. Are you ready?" He squinted one eye and looked down the sights. He squeezed the trigger, the room echoed and there was blackness. I leidel held his pistol poised over the table. Silence. "Well," said Forbes finally. "There you have it. Surprise, what?" Hcidcl balanced the pistol, feeling his palm go suddenly moist against the black grip, and he looked around at the five pairs of glowing eyes. "Bit of a shock, I should imagine," Forbes said. "Discovering all of us, as it were." Heidel licked his lips. "How? How could you do this?" Forbes remained motionless. "Simple as one, you know. Put men on rockets going back to Earth in place ol returning colonists. Study. Observe. Learn. Shift a record here and there. Forge, change pictures, all that sort of thing. Poor contact between here and Earth, you know. Not too difficult.' "I'll get one of you," Heidel said, still balancing hi' pistol tightly. "Well, possibly," Forbes said. "But no more than one. You have three guns pointed at you. We can see you perfectly, you know, as though it were broad daylight. One shiver of that pistol, and you're dead." "Why have you done this?" Heidel said suddenly. " Why? Everything that was done was for the Martian. We tried to give you freedom and culture, the benefit of our knowledge..." "We didn't like your wrestlers," Forbes said. HeidtTs nostrils twitched, and suddenly he swung the pistol. There was a crashing explosion and then silence. "Good." said Forbes. "I don't think he got the last one fired." "You're all right then?" asked Meehan, putting his gun on the table. "Oh, quite! Rather dramatic altogether, ch?" "Nerve tingling," Locke agreed. Forbes tinned in his chair and called, "Oh Kcssit!" The butler opened the door to the darkened room, hesitated, and reached for the light switch. "No, no," Forbes said, smiling. "Never mind that. Gome over here, will you please?" The butler crossed the room slowly. "It's all right," Forbes said. "The president will notice nothing whatever, Kcssit. Would you mind pouring us all another glass of wine? I'm frightfully crazy about that port, eh?" There was a murmur of agreeing voices. Tin butler lifted the silver decanter and filled glasses, moving easily and surelv in the darkness. "Cheers," said Forbes. "Cheers." said the others, over the clink of glasses. Personalities in Science He Analyzes the Sunshine and Fights Darkness known, among his colleagues, as the man "who discovered what makes the sun shine," and he was a key figure in the development of the atomic bomb. Yet he deplores the usual "overemphasis" on complicated nuclei and on fission, which "is, after all, only a very special phenomenon in nuclear physics" -- so much so that he completely omitted any mention of it in a # lecture course he gave at the General Electric Laboratories. Obviously, Prof. Bethe has thought long and deeply on the implications of his work, and helps greatly to discredit the common description of research scientists as "cold-blooded." After the last war, he became a member of the nineman Emergency Committee of Atomic Scientists, headed by Albert Einstein, to educate the public to the essential facts in this field. When the possibility of the hydrogen bomb became public in #, he served as spokesman for a group of scientists who called themselves "worried citizens" and urged the United States to resolve never to use the H-bomb first. His views are perhaps best summed up by a quotation from an article of his which appeared in the April # issue of Scientific American : "The situation in atomic energy has changed, both because of the Soviet development of the A-bomb and because of our decision on the H-bomb. To leave atomic weapons uncontrolled would be against the best interests of both countries. If we can negotiate seriously with the U.S.S.R., the scale of the negotiations should probably be as broad as possible. But the situation would be greatly eased if we could agree only to eliminate the greatest menace to civilization, the hydrogen bomb." It may appear slightly ironic to some that the man who wrote those words has been called, by Time # # magazine, "one of Nazi Germany's greatest gifts to the United States." If anything, this is a modest statement, for the Bethe carbon cycle, a scries of six linked transformations, was the first and only explanation of solar and stellar energy which met all the known facts. Hans Bethe was bom in Strasbourg, Alsace-Lorraine, on July #, #. He was an only child. There had been university professors in his family for generations; his father, Albrecht Theodore Bethe, was properly styled Doktor Doktor Professor Bethe, having both his M.D. and Ph. D. degrees. Hans received his own Ph.D. in # at the University of Munich. For his doctor's thesis, he used the new system of quantum mechanics to explain the effect of diffraction and refraction in crystals. This tended to set the scientific world on its collective ear, since the system had only been presented by its discoverers. Schrodinger and Heisenberg, in #, and very few people so much as claimed to understand it at the time. With this accomplishment behind him, Bethe went to Frankfurt as an instructor of physics, and took a similar post at Stuttgart in #. From # to # lie was a lecturer at the University of Munich. During this time he worked under Sir Ernest Rutherford at Cambridge and Enrico Fermi in Rome, on a fellowship from the Rockefeller International Education Board. With Fermi, he wrote "Reciprocal Action of Two Electrons", which was published in #. This brought him into contact with Niels Bohr, "the founder of modern atomic theory". When Hitler came to power, Bethe was assistant prolessor at the University of Tubingen, in addition to lecturing at Munich. Since his mother was Jewish, he left Germany and went to England. In #-#, he was at the University of Manchester; in #-# at Bristol as a fellow. States in #, to be an assistant professor at Cornell. (He has, incidentally, been a full professor since #.) Shortly after his arrival, Bethe was chosen as one of the assistant editors of the American Physical Society's journal, to serve a threeyear term. What amounted to "a #-page textbook of nuclear physics" -- three issues of Reviews of Modern Physics devoted almost exclusively to his writings -- has been reprinted numerous times. Impressive as his work is, a list of Bethe's major professional interests is perhaps even more so. To quote the Professor himself, they arc "quantum theory of atoms, theory of metals, quantum theory of collisions, theory of atomic nuclei, energy production in stars, quantum electrodynamics, shock wave theory and microwaves." One of his most important treatises is "Energy Production in Stars," the first two sections of which were published in # and won the New York Academy of Science's A. Cressy Morrison Prize. (The third section appeared four years later.) Bethe first learned of the importance of thermo-nuclear reactions in the sun's energy at the # Washington Conference on Theoretical Physics. As propounded then, the problem was: knowing the proportion (#) of hydrogen in the sun, to determine the other elements which would react to account for its radiation, size and other known characteristics. Bethe started considering the problem as soon as his train left for the return trip to Ithaca and, according to his friend George Gamow, "had the answer at the very moment when the passing dining car steward announced the first call for dinner". His solution, of course, was the six-step reaction cycle in which carbon and nitrogen act as catalysts transforming the hydrogen protons into one alpha particle. The atomic weight lost in this process becomes energy in accordance with Einstein's formula. Bethe was able to show that the energy liberation of his reaction chain at # degrees centigrade coincides exactly with the amount of energy radiated by the sun. And speaking of that energy, he remarked, "At the rate of one cent per kilowatt hour, we dollars to keep the sun going for a single second." These results were reported in the spring of #, and not satisfied with this bit of progress, Bethe also made headlines in January of that year with the first mathematical confirmation that the newly discovered meson holds matter together! During the war, Bethe devoted himself to work that is still largely secret. He had become a naturalized citizen in #, and in # top secret Radiation Laboratory. After that, he became chief of the theoretical physics division at Los Alamos, a post he held until #. It was his responsibility to decide the critical size of the fissionable mass, and what the chances were of a chain reaction destroying the world. After the war, he became a public figure, as already noted. His work went on, however. He won his second Morrison Prize in #, the same year he again became a member of the American Physical Society's board of editors. In June # he became a visiting professor at Columbia. He remains one of the Atomic Energy Commission's most valued consultants. Personally, his friends describe him as a modest man with a famous appetite. The tradition of his university professor's lineage has held true in his immediate family. His wife, the former Rose Ewald, whom he married in #, is a professor of physics at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, and the daughter of a Nazi-exiled German physicist. The Bcthes have two children. Hans Bethe lists skiing, economics, and riding on trains as his primary diversions, but nothing can hold him the way his work does. And the difficulty and value of that work is not lessened by the fact that he does much of it while sitting in an easy chair in his living room -- thinking! The entities were utterly , ambitiously evil; their line of defense, apparently, was absolutely impregnable. Ill Kill You Tomorrow By Helen Huber Illustrated by Kelly Freas No silence is sinister until it acquires a background of understandable menace. Here there was only the night quiet of Maternity, the silence of noiseless rubber heels on the hospital corridor floor, the faint brush of starched white skirts brushing through doorways I r E into darkened and semi-darkened rooms. But there was something wrong with the silence in the "basket room" of Maternity, the glasswalled room containing row on row, the tiny hopes of tomorrow. The curtain was drawn across the window through which, during visiting hours, peered the proud fathers who did the hoping. The nightlight was dim. The silence should not have been there. Lorry Kane, standing in the doorway, looked out over the rows of silent baskets and felt her blonde hair tighten at the roots. The tightening came from instinct, even before her brain had a chance to function, from the instincts and training of a registered nurse. Thirty odd babies grouped in one room and -- complete silence. Not a single whimper. Not one tiny cry of protest against the annoying phenomenon of birth. Thirty babies -- dead? That was the thought that flashed, unbidden, into Lorry's pretty head. The absurdity of it followed swiftly, and Lorry moved on rubber soles between a line of baskets. She bent down and explored with practiced fingers. A warm, living bundle in a white basket. The feeling of relief was genuine. Relief, even from an absurdity, is a welcome thing. Lorry smiled and bent closer. Staring up at Lorry from the basket were two clear blue eyes. Two eyes, steady and fixed in a round baby face. An immobile, pink baby face housing two blue eyes that stared up into Lorry's with a quiet concentration that Lorry said, "What's the matter with you?" She spoke in a whisper and was addressing herself. She'd gone short on sleep lately -- the only way, really, to get a few hours with Pete. Pete was an interne at General Hospital, and the kind of a homely grinning carrot-top a girl like Lorry could put into dreams as the center of a satisfactory future. But all this didn't justify a case of jitters in the "basket room." Lorry said, "Hi, short stuff," and lifted Baby Newcomb -- Male, out of his crib for a cuddling. Baby Newcomb didn't object. The blue eyes came closer. The week-old eyes with the hundredyear-old look. Lorry laid the bundle over her shoulder and smiled into the dimness. "You want to be president, Shorty?" Lorry felt the warmth of a new life, felt the little body wriggle in snug contentment. "I wouldn't advise it. Tough job." Babv Newcomb twisted in his blan# ket. Lorry stiffened. Snug contentment? Lorry felt two tiny hands clutch and dig into her throat. Not just pawing baby hands. Little fingers that reached and explored for the windpipe. She uncuddlcd the soft bundle, held it out. There were the eyes. She chilled. No imagination here. No spectre from lack of sleep. Ancient murder-hatred glowing in new-born eves. drop this body." A tnin piping voice. A shrill symphony in malevolence. Fear weakened Lorry. She found a chair and sat down. She held the boy baby in her hands. Training would not allow her to drop Baby Newcomb. Even if she had fainted, she would not have let go. T HE shrill voice: '"It was stupid of me. Very stupid." Lorry was cold. sick. mute. "Very stupid. These hands are too fragile. There are no muscles in the arms. I couldn't have killed you." "Please -- I..." "Dreaming? No. I'm surprised at -- well, at your surprise. You have a trained mind. You should have learned, long ago. to trust your senses." "I don't -- understand." "Don't look at the doorwav. Nobody's coming in. Look at me. Give me a little attention and I'll explain." "Explain?" Lorry pulled her eyes down to the cherubic little face as she parroted dully. "I'll begin by reminding you that there are more things in existence than your obscene medical books tell you about." "Who are you? What arc you?" "One of those things." "You're not a baby!" "Of course not. I'm..." The beastly, brittle voice drifted into silence as though halted by an intruding thought. Then the thought voiced -- voiced with a yearning at once pathetic and terrible: "It would be nice to kill you. Someday I will. Someday I'll kill you if I can find you. I ' "Why? Why?" Insane words in an insane world. But life had not stopped even though madness had taken over. "Why?" The voice was matter-of-fact again. No more time for pleasant daydreams. "I'm something your books didn't tell you about. Naturally you're bewildered. Did you ever hear of a bodvless entity?" Lorrv shuddered in silence. "You've heard of bodyless entities, of course -- but you denied their existence in your smug world of precise tidy detail. I'm a bodyless entity. I'm one of a swarm. We corne from a dimension your mind wouldn't accept even if I explained it, so I'll save words. We of the swarm seek unfoldmcnt -- fulfillment -- even as you in your stupid, blind world Do you want to hear more?" cc f K   a "You're a fool, but I enjoy practicing with these new vocal chords, just as I enjoyed flexing the fingers and muscles. That's why I revealed myself. We are, basically of #  course, parasites. In the dimension where we exist in profusion, evolution has provided for us. There, vve seek out and move into a dimensional entity far more intelligent than yourself. We destroy it in a way you wouldn't understand, and it is not important that you should. In fact, I can t see what importance there is in vour existing at all." "You plan to -- kill all these babies?" "Let me congratulate you. You've finally managed to voice an intelligent question. The answer is, no. We aren't strong enough to kill them. We dwelt in a far more delicate dimension than this one and all was in proportion. That was our difficulty when wc came here. Wc could find no entities weak enough to take possession of until wc came upon this roomful of infants." "Then, if you're helpless..." "What do we plan to do? That's quite simple. These material entities will grow. We will remain attached -- ingrained, so to speak. When the bodies enlarge sufficiently..." "Thirty potential assassins..." Lorry spoke again to herself, then hurled the words back into her own mind as her sickness deepened. The shrill chirping: "What do you mean, potential? The word expresses a doubt. Here there is none." The entity's chuckle sounded like a baby, content over a full bottle. "Thirty certain assas f  sms. "But why must you kill?" Lorry was sure the tiny shoulders shrugged. "Why? I don't know'. I never thought to wonder. Why must you join with a man and propagate some day? Why do you feel sorry for what you term an unfortunate? Explain your instincts and I'll explain mine." Lorry felt herself rising. Stiffly, she put Baby Newcomb back into his basket. As she did so, a ripple of shrill, jerky laughter crackled through the room. Lorry put her hands to her ears. "You know I can't say anything. You'd keep quiet. They'd call me mad." "Precisely." Malicious laughter, like driven sleet, cut into her ears as she fled from the room. was smoking a quick cigarette by an open fire-escape door on the third floor. He turned as Lorry came down the corridor, flipped his cigarette down into the alley and grinned. "W'omen shouldn't float on rubber heels," he said. "A man should have Warning." Lorry came close. "Kiss me. Kiss me -- hard." Pete kissed her, then held her away. "You're trembling. Anticipation, Pet?" He looked into her face and the grin faded. "Lorry, what is it?" "Pete -- Pete. I'm crazy. I've gone mad. Hold me." He could have laughed, but he had looked closely into her eyes and he was adoctor. He didn't laugh. "Tell me. Just stand here. I'll hang onto you and you tell me." "The babies -- they've gone mad." She clung to him. "Not exactly that. Something's taken them over. Something terrible. Oh, Pete! Nobodv would believe me." "I believe the end result," he said, quietly. "That's what I'm for, angel. When you shake like this I'll always believe. But I'll have to know more. And I'll hunt for an answer." "There isn't any answer, Pete. I know." "We'll still look. Tell me more, first." "There isn't any more." Her eyes widened as she stared into his with the shock of a new thought. "Oh, Lord! One of them talked to me, but maybe he -- or it -- won't talk to you. Then you'll never know for sure! You'll think I t )l m    "Stop it. Quit predicting what I'll do. Let's go to the nursery." They went to the nursery and stayed there for three-quarters of an hour. Thev loft with the tinnv J # the last words of the monstrous entity. "We'll sav no more, of course. Perhaps even this incident has been indiscreet. But it's in the form of a celebration. Never Ix-fore has a whole swarm gotten through. Only a single entity on rare occasions." Pete leaned against the corridor wall and wiped his face with the sleeve of his jacket. "We're the only ones who know." he said. "Or ever will know." Lorry pushed hack a lock of his curly hair. She wanted to kiss him, but this didn't seem to he the place or the time. "We can never tell anyone." "We'd look foolish." "We've got a horror on our hands and we can't pass it on." "What are we going to do?" Lorry asked. "I don't know. Let's recap a little. Got a cigarette?" They went to the fire door and dragged long and deep on two from Lorry's pack. "They'll be quiet from now on. No more talking -- just baby squalls." "And thirty little assassins will go into thirty homes," Lorry said. "All dressed in soft pink and blue, all filled with hatred. Waiting, biding their time, growing more clever." She shuddered. "The electric chair will get them all, eventually." # "But how many will they get in the meantime?" Pete put his arms around her and drew her close and whispered into her ear. "There's nothing we can do -- nothing." "We've got to do something." Lorn,heard again the thin, brittle laughter following her, taunting her. "It was a bad dream. It didn't happen. We'll just have to sleep it off." She put her check against his. The rising stubble of his heard scratched her face. She was grateful for the rough touch of solid reality. Pete said. "The shock will wear out of our minds. Time will pass. After a while, we won't believe it ourselves." "That's what I'm afraid of." "It's got to be that way." "We've got to do something." Pete lowered his arm wearily. "Yeah -- we've got to do something. Where there's nothing that can be done. What are wc -- miracle workers?" "We've got to do something." "Sure -- finish out the watch and then get some sleep." L orry awoke with the lowering sun in her window. It was a blood red sun. She picked up the phone by her bedside. "Room # Resident's extension." Pete answered drowsily. Lorry said. "Tell me -- did I dream, or did it really happen." "I was going to ask you the same thing. I guess it happened. What are you doing?" "Lying in bed." "So am I. But two different beds. Things are done all wrong." "Want to take a chance and sneak over? I've got an illegal coffee pot." "Leave the door unlocked." Lorry put on the coffee. She showered and got into her slip. She was brushing her hair when Pete came in. He looked at her and extended beckoning, clutching fingers. "The hell with phantoms. Come here." After a couple of minutes. Lorry pulled away and poured the coffee. She reached for her uniform. Pete said, "Don't put it on yet." "Too dangerous -- leaving it off." He eyed her dreamily. "I'll dredge up will power. I'll also get scads of fat rich clients. Then we'll get married so I can assault you legally." Lorry studied him. ' You're not even listening to yourself. What is it, Pete? What have you dreamed up?" "Okay. I've got an idea. You said something would have to be done." "What?" "A drastic cure for a drastic case. With maybe disaster as the end product." "Tell me." "I'll tell you a little, but not too much." "Why not all?" "Because if we ever land in court, I want you to be able to say under oath, 'He didn't tell me what he planned to do'." "I don't like that." "I don't care if you like it or not. Tell me, what's the one basic thing that stands out in your mind about these -- entities?" "That they're... " "Fragile?" "Yes -- fragile." "Give me some more coffee." was in Pete's mind. All she got was kissed, and she did not see Pete again until eleven o'clock that night. He found her in the corridor in Maternity and motioned her toward the nursery. He carried a tray under a white towel. He said, "You watch the door. I'm going inside. I'll be about a half an hour." "What are you going to do?" "You stay out here and mind your business. Your business will be to steer any nosey party away. If you can't, make noise coming in." Doc Pete turned away and entered the nursery. Lorry stood at the doorway, in the silence, under the brooding night-light, and prayed. Twenty-five minutes later, Pete came out. Ilis face was white and drawn. He looked like a man who had lately had a preview of Hell's inverted pleasures. His hands trembled. The towel still covered the tray. He said, "Watch them close. Don't move ten steps from here." He started away -- turned back. "All hell is scheduled to break loose in this hospital shortly. Let's hope God remains in charge." Lorrv saw the sick dread of his heart underneath his words. scandal. An epidemic of measles on the maternity floor of a modern hospital indicates the unforgivable medical sin -- carelessness. It was hushed up as much as possible, pending the time when the top people could shake off the shock and recover their wits. The ultimate recovery of thirty babies was a tribute to everyone concerned. Wan, done-in. Doc Pete drank coffee in Lorry's room. Lorry gave him three lumps of sugar and said, "But are you sure the sickness killed the entities?" "Quite sure. Somehow they knew when I made the injections. They screamed. They knew they were done for." "It took courage. Tell me: why arc you so strong, so brave? Why are you so wonderful?" "Cut it out I was scared stiff. If one baby had died, I'd have gone through life weighing the cure against the end. It isn't easy to risk doing murder -- however urgent the need." She leaned across and kissed him. "And you were all alone. You wouldn't let me help. Was that fair?" He grinned, then sobered. "But I can't help remembering what that -- that invisible monster said : 'Never before has a whole swarm gotten through. Only a single entity on rare occasions' "I can't help wondering what happens to those single entities. I think of the newspaper headlines I've seen: Child Kills Parents in Sleep. Youth Slays Father. I'll probably always wonder -- and I'll always remember..." Lorry got up and crossed to him and put her arms around him. "Not always." she whispered. "There will be times when I'll make you forget. For a little while, anyhow." of science fiction's brightest young writers, does a beautiful satire on a phase of modern life with which we're all familiar and shows in careful, frightening and exciting detail what may happen if it continues into the future. The title is Malice in Wonderland, and it's another sparkling example of IF's policy of bringing you the finest, most original, thought-provoking stories in the field of science fiction. But this is just the beginning of an issue packed with exceptionally good stories, including Anachron by Damon Knight, A Word for Freedom by James E. Gunn. Letter of the Laic by Alan E. Noursc, and many others. Also in the January issue is an exciting new feature designed to bring IF readers into closer contact with the remarkable facts of science as well as fiction. Don't miss the January IF -- at your local newsstand on November #th!  Here's the behind-the-scenes lowdown on Luna City life and a promoter of Martian dancing girls , vaudeville , and -- other things. But remember : stop us if you've heard this one! By Boyd Ellanby Illustrated by Mel Hunter J Kotha's bar was deserted when I dropped in shordy after midnight. The ship from Earth was still two days away, and the Martian flagship would get in next morning, with seven Itundred passengers for earth on it. Dworken must have been waiting in Luna City a whole week -- at six thousand credits a day. That's as steep to me as it is to you, but money never seemed to worry Dworken. He raised the heavy green lids from his protruding brown eyes as I came in. He waved his tail. "Sit down and join me," he invited, in his gutteral voice. "It is not good for a man to drink alone. But I haf no combany in dis by-degods-deserted hole. A man must somet'ing be doing, what?" I sat down in the booth across from my Venusian friend, and stared at him while he punched a new order into the drinkboard. "For me, another shchikh " he announced. "And for you? De same?" Against my better judgment, for I knew I'd have plenty to do handling that mob of tourists -- the first crowd of the season is always the roughest -- tomorrow, I consented. Dworken had already consumed six of the explosive tilings, as the empty glasses on the table showed, but he exhibited no effects. I made a mental note, as I'd so often done before, that this time I would not exceed the safe terrestrial limit of two. "You must be in the money again, drinking imported shchikh " I remarked. "What are you doing in Luna City this time?" He merely lifted his heavy eyelids and stared at me without expression. "Na, in dc money I am not. Dere are too xnanv chiselers in business. Just when I t'ink I haf a goot t'ing, I am shwindelcd. It is too bad." He snorted through his ugly snout, making the Venusian equivalent of a sigh. I knew there was a story waiting behind that warty skin, but I was not sure I wanted to hear it. For die next round of drinks would be on me, and shchikh was a hundred and fifty credits a shot. Still, a man on a Moon assignment has to amuse himself somehow. So I said, "What's the latest episode in the Dworken soap opera? What is the merchandise this time? Gems? Pet Mercurian fire-insects? A new supply of danghaana ?" "I do not smuggle drugs, dat is a base lie," replied my friend stolidly. He knew, of course, that I still suspected him to be the source of the last load of that potent narcotic, although I had no more proof than did the Planetary Bureau of Investigation. He took a long pull at his drink before he spoke again. "But Dworken is never down for long. Dis time it is show business. You remember, how I haf always been by de t'eater so fascinated? Well, I decided to open a show here in Luna City. Tink of all the travelers, bored stiff by space and de emptiness thereof, who pass through here during the season. Even if only half of them go to my show, it cannot fail." I waited for some mention of free tickets, but none was made. I was about as anxious to see Dworken's show as I was to walk barefoot across the Mare Imbrium, but I asked with what enthusiasm I could force, "What sort of act are you putting on? Girls?" I shuddered as I recalled the pathetic shop-worn chorus girls that Sam Low had tried to pass off last year on the gullible tourists of the spaceways. That show had lasted ten nights -- nine more than it deserved to. There are limits, even to the gullibility of Earth-lubbers. "Yes, girls," replied Dworken. "But not what you are perhaps thinking. Martian girls." Even if the girls were now a little too old for the stage in the Martian capital, they would still get loud cheers on the Moon. I knew. I started to say so, but Dworken interrupted. "And not de miserable girls dey buy from de slave traders in Behastin. Dese girls I collected myself, from de country along de Upper Canal." I repressed my impulse to show my curiosity. It could all be perfectly true -- and if it were not the opening night would tell. But it sounded a lot like one of Dworken's taller tales. I had never been able to disprove any one of them, but I found it a little hard to believe that so many improbable things had ever happened to one man. However, I like being entertained, if it doesn't cost me too much, so finally I said, "I suppose you are going to tell me you ventured out into the interior of Mars, carrying a six weeks' supply of water and oxygen on your back, and visited the Xo theaters on the spot?" "How did you know? Dat is just what I did," solemnly affirmed my companion. He snorted again, and looked at his glass. It was empty, but he tilted it into his face again in an eloquent gesture. No words were needed : I punched the symbols for shchikh into the drinkboard on my side of the table. Then, after hesitating, I punched the "two in" signal. I must remember, though, that this was my second and last. His eighth shchikh seemed to instill some animation into Dworken. "I know you feel skepticalitv -- I mean skepticism -- after my exploits. You will see tomorrow night dat I speak true." "Amazing!" I said. "Especially as I just happen to reinember that three different expeditions from Earth tried to penetrate more than a hundred kilometers from Bchastin, but cither they couldn't carry die water and oxygen that far, or they resorted to breathing Mars air, and never came back. And they were earthmen, not Vcnusians who are accustomed to two atmosphers of carbon dioxide." "My vriend, you must not reason: it was so, it always will be so. The brinciple of induction is long exblodcd. I did indeed breathe Mars air. Vait! I tell you how." He took another long swig of shchikh. "Vat your Eart'men did not realize was dat dey cannot acclimate themselves as do we Venusians. You know de character of our planet made adaptibility a condition of survival. It is true dat our atmosphere is heavy, but on top of our so-high mountains de air is t'in. We must live everywhere, de space is so few. I first adapted myself on Eart' to live. I was derc a whole year, you vill recollect. Den I go further. Your engineers construct air tanks dat make like de air of mountains, t in. So, I learn to live in dose tanks. Each day I haf spent one, two, three hours in dem. I get so I can breathe air at one-third the pressure of your already t'in atmosphere. And at one-sixt' the tension of oxygen. No, my vriend, you could not do this. Your lungs burst. But old Dworken, he has done it. "I take wit' me only some water, for I know de Martians dey not give water. To trade, some miniature kerosene lamps. You know dey got no fuel oil now, only atomics, but dese little lamps dey like for antiques, for sentiment, because their great-grandfathers used deni. "Well, I walk through Vlahas, and not stop. Too close by the capital. Too much contact with men of odder planets. I walk also through Bhur and Zarnat. I come to a small place where dey never see foreigner. Name Tasaaha. Oh, I tell you, zc men of ze odder planets do not know Mars. How delightful, how unsboiled, arc ze Martians, once you get away from de people by tourists so sboiled! How wonderful, across the sands to go, free as birds! The so friendly greetings of de Martian men. And de Martian women! Ah! "Well, in Tasaaha I go to t'eater. Such lovely girls! You shall see. But I saw somet'ing else. That, my friend, you hardly believe!" Dworken looked down at his empty glass and snorted gently. I took the hint, although for myself I ordered the less lethal Martian azdzani. I was already having difficulty believing parts of his narrative; it would be interesting to see if die rest were any harder. My companion continued. "They not only have de chorus, which you haf seen on Earth, imported from Mars -- and such a chorus! Such girls! But they had somet'ing else." "You recall your terrestrial history? Once your ancestors had performers on the stage who did funny motions and said amusing remarks, de spectators to make laugh. I t'ink you called it 'vaudeville.' Well, on Mars they have also vaudeville!" He paused, and looked at me from under half-shut eyelids, and grinned widely to show his reptilian teeth. I wondered if he'd really found something new. I would even be tian vaudeville. I wondered if my Martian was too rusty for me to understand jokes in the spoken lingo. "They haf not only men and women telling jokes. They haf trained animals acting funny!" Dworken went on. This was too much. "I suppose the animals talked, too?" I said sarcastically. "Do they speak Earth or Martian?" He regarded me approvingly. "My friend, you catch on quick," He raised a paw. "Now, don't at conclusions jump. Let me exblain. At first, I did not believe it either. "Dev sprang it with no warning. Onto de stage came a tlooll (you know him, I t'ink), and a shiyooch'iid. The shiyooch'iid was riding a bicycle -- I mean a monocle. One wheel. The tllooll moved just as awkward as he always does, and tried to ride a tandem fourwheeled vehicle which had been especially for him made." In spite of my resolve, I chuckled. The picture of a tllooll trying to ride a four-wheeled bicycle, pumping each of his eight threejointed legs up and down in turn, while maintaining his usual supercilious and indifferent facial expression, was irresistibly funny. "Wait!" said my friend, and again raised a paw. "You have as yet not'ing heard. They make jokes at same time. De sliiyooch'iid asks de tllooll, 'Who was dat tloolla I saw you wit' up the Canal?' and the tllooll replies, 'Dat was no tlloolla, dat was mv shicai.' " I doubled up, laughing. Unless you have visited Mars this may not strike you as funny, but I collapsed into a heap. I put my head on the table and wept with mirth. It seemed like five minutes before I was able to speak. "Oh, no!" "Yes, yes, I tell you. Yes!" insisted my friend. He even smiled himself. system of the Martians there is no point in my trying to explain why the idea of a tllooll' s being out with that neuter of neuters, a shicai, is so devastatingly funny. But that, suddenly, was not quite the point. Did it happen ? I had large doubts. Nobody had ever heard a tllooll make any sort of a sound, and it was generally supposed that they had no vocal chords. And no shiyooch'iid (they somewhat resemble a big groundhog, and live in burrows along the canals of Mars) had ever been heard to make any noise except a high-pitched whistle when frightened "Now, just a minute, Dworken," I said. "I know, my vriend. I know. You t'ink it is impossible. You t'ink the . talking is faked. So I t'ought too. But vait." It seems Dworken had inquired among the audience as to who owned the performing animals. The local Martians were not as impressed as he was with the performance, but they guided him to the proprietor of the trained animal act. He was a young Martian, hawk-nosed, with flashing black eyes, dusky skin, and curly hair. "So I say to him, dis Martian," Dworken continued, " 'If your act on the level is, I buy.' I had three small diamonds with," he explained. "But de Martian was hard to deal wit'. First, he said he vould not sell his so-valuable and so-beloved ani; mals. De only .talking animals on Mars, he said -- de liar! At long last I get him to make a price. But, on condition dat he bring ze animals around to my inn in the morning, for a private audition." "I suppose," I interrupted, "you were beginning to have some doubts as to the Martian's good faith? After all, a talking tllooll and a talking shiyoocli'iid all at one time is quite a lot to ask. I would have -- " "Blease, vriend, bicase!" interrupted my companion. "Do you not t'ink old Dworken knows dese things? Of course he does! I t'ink. De owner, he is pulling a fake, I guess. I know dat animals do not really talk. "Next morning, I t'ink he no show up. But no, I am mistaken. Bromptlv at nine o'clock he come to my inn with a little dogcart, wit' de animals. He puts dem on de stage in de bar of de inn. They act like before." "But they didn't talk, of course?" "Oh my vriend, dat's where you are wrong. Dey talk like nobotty's business. Dc jokes are funnier than ever. Even dirtier, maybe. But Dworken is not fooled. He t'ink. 'Aha!' I say to de Martian. 'You fake this, what? De animals not talk. Suppose you have them do de act while you outside stay, what?' Then I t'ink I have him. i "Ze Martian tear his curly hair, flash his black eyes. He takes insult that I t'ink he is fake. 'Name of de Martian gods!' he cry. But at last he agree to go away, and tell animals to go ahead." "Dworken, you were a sap to string along with 'him even that far," I said wearily. "I hope you hadn't paid the guv any money." He shook his head. "No, my old and best," he said. "Dworken no fool is, even on Mars. No. no money. But wait! De animals go on without the owner. Same stage business, same talk, same jokes, and even funnier yedt. What?" I started at Dworken. He did npt smile, but finished ofT the eleventh shichikh -- the fifth I had bought him. "Listen," I said. "Are you sitting there telling me you have a tllooll and a shiyooc-h'iid that can really talk?" "You listen, mv vriend. Like you, I t'ink something is wrong. I say to Martian owner, 'My vriend, maybe I buy your act, if you tell me how it is done. But you know' as well as I do dat it is impossible to dese animals to talk. Tell me what is de trick?' " Dworken lifted his glass and shook it, as though he could not believe it was empty, then looked at me quest ioningly. I shook my head. He snorted, looked melancholy, writhed up from his chair and reached for his fur cape. "Veil, thanks for de drinks," he said. A dark suspicion crept into my mind, but I could not restrain myself. "Wait, Dworken!" I shouted. "You can't just leave me up in the air like that! What happened then?" Dw'orken snorted into his green handkerchief. "De Martian admitted it was a fake, after all," he said mournfully. "Can you imachine it? What a chiseler! " 'De shiyooch'iid he said, 'can't really talk; de tllooll just t'rows his voice!' " it is to be found externalized and purified in the thousands of semi-robots we are using and will use in the coming century. Our  atomic knowledge destroys cancer or men. Our airplanes carry  passengers or jellied gasoline bombs. The hairline, the human, choice is there. Before us todav we see the aluminum and steel and uranium chess pieces which the interested science-fiction writer can hope to move about, trying to guess how man will play out the game. -- Ray Bradbury in The Nation The man is rare who will give his life for what is merely the lesser of two evils. Merrick's decision was even tougher: to save human beings at the expense of humanity , or vice versa? By Alfred Coppel Illustrated by Philip Parsons Anno Domini #. A great, milesquare blind cube topping a ragged mountain; bare escarpments falling away to a turbulent sea. For five centuries the Creche had stood so, and the Androids had come forth in an unending stream to labor for Man, the Master... -- Quintus Bland, The Romance of Genus Homo. the floor nervously. His thin, almost ascetic face was pale and drawn. "We can't allow it, Virginia," he said, "Prying of .this sort can only precipitate a pogrom or worse. Erikson is a bigot of the worst kind. The danger -- " He broke off helplessly. His wife shook her head slowly. "It cannot be prevented, Han. Someone was bound to start asking questions sooner or later. History should have taught us that. And five hundred years of secrecy was more than anyone had a right to expect. Nothing lasts forever." The trouble is, Merrick told himself, simply that I am the wrong man for this job. I should never have taken it. There's awrongness in what we are doing here that colors my every reaction and makes me incapable of acting on my own. Always the doubts and secret questioning. If the social structure of our world weren't moribund, I wouldn't be here at all... "History, Virginia," he said, "can't explain what there is no precedent for. The Creche is unique in human experience." "The Creche may be, Han, but Sweyn Erikson is not. Consider his background and tell me if there hasn't been an Erikson in every years ago it would have been differera of recorded history. He is mereent. The custodians of the Creche ly another obstacle in the path of would have gladly died to preserve progress that must be overcome. their trust in those times... The job is yours, Han." What irony, Merrick thought, "A pleasant prospect," Merrick that it should come like this. He replied bleakly. "I am an organizer, knew what the projectors did to not a psychotechnician. How am I men. He also knew what they did supposed to protect the Creche to robots. from the likes of Erikson? What "If they dare to use their weapinsanity bore this fruit, Virginia? ons on as it will wipe out every The Prophet, the number one Favestige of control work done here natic, coming here as an investigasince the beginning," he said softly. tor in the name of the Council of "They have no way of knowing Ten! I realize the Council turns that." pale at the thought of the vote the "Nor would they believe it if we Fanatics control, but surely some told them." thing could have been done! Have "And that brings us right back those idiots forgotten what we do to where we started. You can't here? Is that possible?" keep Erikson out, and the Council Virginia Merrick shook her head, of Ten has left us on our own. They "The stone got too hot for them to don't dare oppose the Fanatics. But handle, so they've thrown it to there's an old political maxim you you." w'ould do well to consider very "But Erikson, himself! The very carefully since it's our only hope, man who organized the Human Han," Virginia Merrick said, " 'If Supremacy Party and the Antirobot you can't beat someone -- join League! If he sets foot within the him.'" Creche it will mean an end to everything!" inhaled deeply. "We can't keep him O cigarette, blue smoke curling out and you know it. There's an from her gold-tinted lips. "This has army of Fanatics gathering out been coming on for ten years. I there in the hills this very minute. tried to warn you then, but you Armed with cortical-stimulant prowouldn't listen. Remember?" jectors, Han. That isn't a pleasant How like a woman, Merrick way to die -- " thought bitterly, to be saying I told Merrick studied his wife careyou so. fully. There was fear under her iron "What would you have me do, control. She was thinking of the Virginia?" he asked, "Help the shattering pain of death under bigot peddle his robot-hate? That the projectors. Nothing else, really, can't be the way. Don't you feel The Creche didn't matter to her. anything at all when the reports The Creche didn't really matter to of pogroms come in?" any of the staff. Three hundred Virginia Merrick shrugged. "Better they than we, Han." "Has it occurred to you that our whole culture might collapse if Erikson has his way?" "Antirobotism is natural to human beings. Compromise is the only answer. Precautions have to be taken -- " " Precautions !" exploded Merrick. "What sort of precautions can be taken against pure idiocy?" "The founding board of Psychotechnicians -- " "No help from that source. You know that I've always felt the whole premise was questionable. On the grounds of common fairness, if nothing else." "Really, Han," Virginia snapped, "It was the only thing to do and you know it. The Creche is the only safeguard the race has." "Now you sound like the Prophet. In reverse." "We needn't argue the point." "No, I suppose not," the Director muttered. "Then what arc you going to do when he gets here?" She ground out her cigarette anxiously. "The procession is in the ravine now. You had better decide quickly." "I don't know, Virginia. I just don't know." Merrick sank down behind his desk, hands toying with the telescreen controls. "I was never intended to make this sort of decisions. I feel helpless. Look here -- " The image of the ravine glowed The densely timbered slopes were spotted with tiny purposeful figures in the grey robes that all Fanatics affected. Here and there the morning sun caught a glint of metal as the Fanatics labored to set up their projectors. Along the floor of the ravine that was the only land approach to the Creche moved the twisting, writhing snake of the procession. The enraptured Fanatics were chanting their hate-songs as they came. In the first rank walked the leonine Erikson, his long hair whipping in the moisture-laden wind from the sea. With a muttered curse, Merrick flipped a toggle and the scene dimmed. The face of a secretary appeared superimposed on it. It was the expressionless face of an android, a fine example of the Creche's production line. "Get Graves up here," he ordered, "You may find him at Hypno-Ccntral or in Semantic Evaluation." "Very good, sir," intoned the android, fading from the screen. Merrick looked at his wife. "Mavbe Graves and I can think of something." "Don't plan anything rash, Han." Merrick shrugged and turned back to watch the steady approach of the procession of grey-f rocked zealots in the ravine. Graves appeared as the doorway dilated. He looked fearful and pale. "You wanted to see me, Han?" "Come in, Jon. Sit down." "Have you seen the projectors those crackpots have set up in the hills?" Graves demanded. "I have, Jon. That's what I wanted to talk to you about." "My God, Han! Do you have any idea of what it must feel like to die from cortical stimulation?" Graves' voice was tense and strained. "Can't we get out of here by 'copter?" no "No. The 'copters are both in Francisco picking up supplies. I ordered them out yesterday. Besides, that wouldn't settle anything. There are almost a' thousand androids in tiie Creche as of this morning. What about them?" Graves made a gesture of impatience. "It's the humans I'm thinking about." Merrick forced down the bitter taste of disgust that welled into his throat and forced himself to go on. "We have to take some sort of action to protect the Creche, Jon. I've held of! until the last moment, thinking the Council would never allow a Fanatic to investigate the Creche, but the Ten are more vote than they are of letting a thousand androids be slaughtered. But we can't leave it at that. If we don't prevent it, Erikson will precipitate a pogrom that will make the Canalopolis massacre look like a tea-party." For some reason he held back the information about the effect of the Fanatic weapon on robot tissue. The vague notion that knowing, Jon Graves might cast his lot with Erikson, restrained him. "Of course, Erikson will come in wearing an energy shield," Graves said. "He will. And we have none," Virginia Merrick said softly. "Can we compromise with him?" Graves asked. There it was again, Merrick thought, the weasel-word 'compromise.' There was a moral decay setting in everywhere -- the founders of the Creche would never have spoken so. "No," he said flatly, "We cannot. Erikson has conceived a robot-menace. All the old hatepatterns are being dusted off and used on the rabble. People are actually asking one another if they would like their daughters to marry robots. That sort of thing, as old as homo sapiens. And one cannot compromise with prejudice. It seduces the emotions and dulls the mind. No, there will be no appeasing of Swcyn Erikson or his grey-shirted nightriders!" "You're talking like a starry-eyed fool, Han," Virginia Merrick said sharply. "Can't we take him in and give him the works?" Graves asked hopefully. "Primary Conditioning could handle the job. Give him a fill-in with false memory?" Merrick shook his head. "We can't risk narcosynthcsis and that's essential. He'll surely be tested for blood purity w'hen he leaves, and scopolamine traces would be a dead give-away that we had been trying to hide something here." "Then it looks as though compromise is the only way, Han. They've got us up against the wall. See here, Han, I know you don't agree, but what else is there? After all, we all believe in human supremacy. Erikson calls it a robot-menace, we look at it from another angle, but our common goal is the betterment of the human culture we've established. People are on an emotional jag now. There has been no war for five centuries. No emotional release. And there have been regulations and conventions set up since the Atom War that only a very few officials have been allowed to understand. Erikson is no savage, Han, after all. True he's set off a rash of robot-baiting, but he can be dealt with on an intelligent plane, I'm sure." "He is a man of ability, you know," Virginia Merrick said. "Ability," Merrick said bitterly. "Rabble rouser and bigot! Look at his record. Organizer of the riots in Low Chicago. Leader in the Antirobot Labor League -- the same outfit that slaughtered fifty robots in the Tycho dock strike. Think, you two! To tell such a man what the Creche is would be to tie a rope around the neck of every android alive. Lynch law! The rope and the whip lor every one of them. And then suppose the worm turns? It can, you know! Our methods here are far from perfect. What then?" "I still say we must compromise," Graves said. "They will kill us if we don't -- " "He's no troglodyte, Han, I'm certain -- " Merrick's wife said plaintively. The Director felt resistance flowing out of him. They were right, of course. There was nothing else he could do. "All right," Merrick's voice was low and tired. He felt the weight of his years settling down on him. "I'll do as you suggest. I'll try to lead him off the trail first -- " that was his compromise with himself, he knew, and he hated himself for it -- "and if I fail I'll tell him the whole truth." He flipped the telescreen toggle in time to see Sweyn Erikson detach himself from his followers and disappear through the dilated outer gate in the side of the Creche. A faint, almost futile stirring of defiance shook him. He found himself in the anomalous position of wanting to defend something that he had long felt was wrong in concept from the beginning -- and not being able to take an effective course of action. He reached into his desk drawer and took out an ancient automatic. It was a family heirloom, heavy, black and deadly. He pulled back the slide and watched one of the still-bright brass cartridges snap up into the breech. He handled the weapon awkwardly, but as he slipped it into his jumper pocket some of the weariness slipped from him and a cold anger took its place. He looked calmly from his wife to Graves. "I'll tel! him the whole truth," he said, "And if he fails to react as you two think he will, I shall kill him." wAtom War culture, might have been a dictator. But the devastation of the war had at long last resulted in a peaceful world-state, and where no nations exist, politics becomes a sterile business of direction and supervision. It is war or the threat of war that gives a politician his power. Sweyn Erikson wanted power above all else. And so he founded a religion. He became the Prophet of the Fanatics. And since a cult must have an object of group hate as a raison-d'etre, he chose the androids. With efficiency and calculated sincerity, he beat the drums of prejudice until his organization had spread its influence into the world's high places and his word became the law of the land. People who beheld his feral magnificence, and listened to the spellbinding magic of his oratory -- followed. His power sprang from the masses -- unthinking, emotional. He gave the mob a voice and a purpose. He was like a Hitler or a Torquemada. Like a Long or a John Brown. He was savage and rapacious, courageous and bitter. He was Man. There were four cardinal precepts by which the membership of the Human Supremacy Party lived. First, Man was God. Second, no race could share the plenum with Man. Had separate races still remained after the Atom War, the specific, but since there remained only humanity en masse, all human beings shared the godhead. Third, the artificial persons that streamed from the Creche were blasphemy. Fourth, they must be destroyed. Like other generations before them, the humans of this age rallied to the banner of the whip and the rope. Not since the War had blood been spilled, but the destructive madness of homo sapiens found joy in the word of the Prophet, and though the blood was only the red sap of androids, the thrill was there. Thus had Sweyn Erikson, riding the intolerant wave of antirobotism, come to the Creche. Fie stood now, in the long bare foyer, waiting. Behind him lay the Party and the League. The Council of Ten was in hand and helpless. Upon his report to the world, the future of an entire robot-human culture pattern rested. This, he told himself, was the high point of his life. Naked power to use as he chose rested in his hands. The whole structure of world society was tottering. The choice was his and his alone. He could shore it up or shatter it and trample on the fragments... The Prophet savored the moment. He watched with interest as the door before him dilated. The Creche Director stood eyeing him half-fearfully, half-defiantly, flanked by his wife and his assistant. They were all three afraid for their lives, Erikson thought with satisfaction. "We welcome you to the Creche," Han Merrick said formally"Let there be no ceremony," Erikson said, "I am a simple man." Merrick's lips tightened. "You haven't come here for ceremony. There will be none." "I came for truth " the Prophet said sonorously. "The people of the world are waiting for my words. The mask of secrecy must be ripped from this place and truth and knowledge allowed to wash it clean." Merrick almost winced. The statement was redundant with the propaganda that Erikson's nightriders peddled on every street corner. It betokened an intellectual bankruptcy among men that was frightening. "I shall do my best to allay your fears," he said thickly. Erikson's eyes glittered with suspicion. "I need only a guide. The decisions I shall make for myself. And mind that I am shown every concealed place. The roots of this place must be laid bare. 'For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing; whether it be good or whether it be evil.' The Scriptures command it in the name of Man, the True God." Twisted, pious, hypocrite! thought Merrick. "I am sure, sir," Graves was saying placatingly, "that when we have shown you the Creche you will see that there is no menace." Erikson scowled at Graves deliberately. "There is menace enough in the blasphemy of android life, my son. Everywhere there are signs of unrest among the things you have built here. On Mars, human beings have died at their hands!" Merrick's face showed his disgust. "Frankly, I don't believe that. Androids don't kill." "We shall see, my son," Erikson said settling the belt of his energy screen more comfortably about his hips. "We shall see." Merrick studied Erikson's face. There was a tiny scar under his chin. That would be where the transmitter was planted. He had no doubt that every word of this conversation was heing monitored by the Fanatics outside the Creche. The turning point was coming inexorably nearer. He only hoped that he had the physical and moral courage to face it when it arrived. "Very well, Svveyn Erikson," he said finally. "Please come with me." in Merrick's office. The preliminary stage of his plan had failed, just as he had known it would. He was almost glad. It had been a vacillating expediency, an attempt to hide the facts and avoid the necessity of facing the challenge squarely. Stage two was about to begin, and this time there would be no temporizing. The Prophet glared angrily across the desk-top. "Do you take me for a child? You have shown me nothing. Where are the protoplasm vats? The brain machines? Where are the bodies assembled? I warned you against trickery, Han Merrick!" Merrick glanced across the room at his wife. She sat rigid in her chair, her face a pale mask. He would get no help from her. "You must realize, Erikson," he said, "That you are forcing me to jeopardize five centuries of work for the chimera of Human Supremacy. Let me warn you now that your life is of no importance to me when balanced against that. When the Board of Psychotechnicians appointed my family custodians of the Creche centuries ago, they did so because they knew we would keep faith -- " "The last member of the founding Board died more than two hundred years ago," snapped the Prophet. "But the Creche is here, and I am here to guard it as my forefathers did," Merrick said. Once again he was conscious of a strange ambivalence in his attitude. He must guard something he considered wrong against the intrusion of a danger even more wrong. His hand sought the scored grip of the old automatic in his pocket. Could he actually kill? "You speak of Human Supremacy as a chimera," Sweyn Erikson said, "It is no such thing. It is the only vital force left in the world. Robotism is a menace more deadly, a blasphemy more foul than any Black Mass of history. You are making Man into an atiachronism on the face of his own planet. This cannot he! I will not let it be..." Merrick stared. Gould it le that the man actually believed that the poison he peddled was the lood of the gods? "I will try one last attempt at reason, Erikson," Merrick said deliberately. ' Look back with an unprejudiced mind, if you can. over the centuries since the Atom War. What do you see?" "I see Man emasculated by the robot!" "No! You see atomic power harnessed and in use for the first time after almost a millenium of muddling. You see Man standing on the Moon and the habitable planets -- and soon to reach out for the stars! A new Golden Age is dawning, Prophet! And why? Whence have come the techniques?" Even as he spoke, Merrick knew he was ignoring the obvious, the all-too-apparent cracks in the social structure that no scientific miracles could cure. But were those cracks the fault of robotism or were thev in fact a failing inherent in Man him' self? He was not prepared to answer that. "From where are die techniques drawn?" he asked again. Erikson met his glance squarely. "Not from the mindless horrors you spawn here!" "Emotionless, Prophet," corrected Merrick pointedly, "Not mindless." "Soulless! Soulless and mindless, too. Never have these zombies been able to think as men!" "They are not men." "Nor are they the architects of the future!" "I think you arc wrong, Prophet," Merrick said softly. "Man is the ultimate," Erikson said. "You talk like a fool," snapped Merrick. " Han !" There was naked terror in his wife's voice, but he rushed on, ignoring it. "How dare you say that Man is the ultimate? What right have you to assume that nature has stopped experimenting?" Swcvn Erikson's lip curled scornfully. "Can you be implying that the robots -- " Merrick leaned across the desk to shout full in the Prophet's face: "You fool! They're not robots !" The robed man was suddenly on his feet, face livid. "Han!" cried Virginia Merrick, "Not that way!" "This is my afTair now, Virginia. I'll handle it in my own way!" the Director said. "Remember the mob outside!" Merrick turned agate-hard eyes on his wife. Presently he looked # away and said to the Prophet. "Now I will show you the real Creche!" where -- blank-eyed, like sleep walkers. They reacted to commands. Thev moved and breathed and fed themselves. Under rigid control they performed miracles of intuitive calculation. But artificiality was stamped upon them like a brand. They were not human. In the lowest vaults of the Creche, Merrick showed the Prophet the infants. He withheld nothing. He showed him the growing creatures. He explained to him the tests and signs that were looked for in the hospitals maintained by the World State and the Council of Ten. He let him watch the young ones taking their Primary Conditioning. Courses of hypnotic instruction. Rest, narcosvn thesis. Seman tics. Drugs and words and more words pounding on young brains like sledgehammer blows, shaping them into something acceptable in a sapient world. In other chambers, other age groups. Emotion and memory being moulded into something else by hypnopedia. Faces becoming blank and expressionless. "Their minds are conditioned -- enslaved," Merrick said bitterly. "Then they are primed with scientific facts. Those techniques we discussed. This is where they come from. Prophet. From the minds of your despised androids. Only will is suppressed, and emotion. They are shaped for the sociography of a sapient culture. They mature very slowly. We keep them here for from ten to fifteen years. No human brain could stand it -- but theirs can." Truth dangled before his eyes, but Erikson's mind savagely rejected it. The pillars upon which he had built his life were crumbling... The two men stood in a vast hall filled with an insidious, whispering voice. On low pallets, fully a score of physically mature androids lay staring vacuously at a spinning crystal high in the apex of the domed ceiling. " -- you had no life before you where created here to serve Man the master vou had no life before you were created here to serve Man the master you had -- " the voice whispered into the hypnotized brains. "Don't look up," Merrick warned. "The crystal can catch a human being faster than it can them. This is hypnotic engineering. The rhythm of the syllables and their proportion to the length of word and sentence arc computed to correspond to typed enccphalographic curves. Nothing is left to chance. When they have reached this stage of conditioning they are almost ready for release and purchase by human beings. Only a severe stimulation of the brain can break down the walls we have built in their minds." Erikson made a gesture as though darkness were streaking his vision. He was shaken badly. "But where do they -- where do they come from?" "The State maternity hospitals, of course," Merrick said, "Where else? The parents arc then sterilized by the Health and Welfare Authority as an added safeguard. Births occur at a ratio of about one for smiled mirthlessly at the Prophet of Human Supremacy. "Well? Little man, what now?" Honest realization still refused to come. It needed to be put into words, and Sweyn Erikson had no such words. "I see only that you are taking children of men and disfiguring -- " "For the last time," gritted Merrick, "These are not human beings. Genus homo, yes. Homo chaos, if you choose. But not homo sapiens. I think of them," he said with sudden calm, "As Homo Supremus. The next step on the evolutionary ladder... At last the words had been spoken and the flood gates were down in the tortured brain of the Prophet. Like a sudden conflagration, realization came -- and with it, blind terror. "No! Nonono! You cannot continue this devil's work! Think what it would mean if these things should ever be loosed on the world of Man!" the Prophet's voice was a steadily rising shrill of fear. Han Merrick looked out across the rows of pallets, each with its burden of a superman, bound like Prometheus to the rock, helpless in hypnotic chains. It struck him again that his life had not been well spent. He looked from his charges to the ranting fear-crazed rabble-rouser. The contrast was too shocking, too complete. For thp "androids" were, in fact, worthy of a dignity even in slavery that homo sapiens had never attained in overlordship. Merrick knew at last what he must do. Racial loyalty stirred, but was quickly smothered in the humiliation of man's omnipresent thievery. For it was thievery, Merrick thought. Man was keeping for himself the heritage that was the rightful property of a newer, better race. He took the automatic from his jumper and leveled it at Erikson's chest. He felt very sure and right. Though he knew that he was sealing the death warrant of his wife and his friends, the memory of their vacillations anesthetized him against any feeling of loss. He waited until Erikson screamed one word into the transmitter imbedded in his flesh -- The word was: "Attack!" -- and in the next instant, Han Merrick shot him dead. I heard the Prophet's command and sprang to comply. Energy swept out of the grids, through the coils of the projectors and out over the blind cube of the Creche. Han Merrick felt the first radiations. He felt the beginnings of cortical hypertrophy and screamed. Every synapse sagged under the increasing load of sensitivity. The pressure of the air became an unbearable burden, the faintest sound became a shattering roar. Every microscopic pain, every cellular process became a rending, tearing agony. He screamed and the sound was a cataclysmic, planet-smashing hell of noise within his skull. He sagged to the floor and thinking stopped. He contracted himself, pulling legs and arms inward in a massive convulsion until at last he had assumed the foetal position. After a long while, he died. Every human being within the Creche died so, but there was still life. The energy that killed the lesser creature freed the greater -- just as Merrick had known it would. Unhuman matter pulsed under the caressing rain. A thousand beings shuddered at the sudden release of their chains. The speakers ranted tain; bare escarpments falling away unheard. The crystals turned unto a turbulent sea. For ten centuries watched. The bonds forged by the Creche has stood so, and the homo sapiens snapped and there Androids still come forth, now to came -- lift their starships to the Magellanic Maturity. Clouds and beyond. A Golden Age has come. But, of course, Man is no Domini #. A great mile-square -- Quintus Bland, The Romance of blind cube topping a ragged mounGenus Homo. edited by Donald A. Wollheim. McBride, New York, #, # pp. (#). Another in a long line of anthologies, this volume's gimmick is its inclusion of the selections of the Jules Verne Prize Committee for #. In other words, it's a presentation of the year's # "most distinguished" science fiction stories as chosen by Donald A. Wollheim, Otto v. St. Whitelock, and Forrest J. Ackerman. These gentlemen are among the top experts in the field, and their choices should be worthy of attention, no matter what the purpose or restrictions. Three of the # stories published, as it happens, are from IF. Four other magazines score two each, and the final contender has one story to its credit. The stories that originally appeared in this magazinc are Mcllvaine's Star by August Derleth, The Beautiful Woman by Charles Beaumont, and The Peacemaker by Alfred Coppel. Other authors included are Arthur C. Clarke, Robert Donald Locke, Martin Pearson and Cecil Corwin, C. M. Kornbluth, Leigh Brackett, Gordon R. Dickson, Mark Clifton, Eric Frank Russell and Walter M. Miller, Jr. It would be difficult to pick favorites, even if the reviewer were completely unbiased. Naturally, your editors stand behind the stories from IF as among the best available anywhere. Kornbluth's The Altar at Midnight and Clifton's Star, Bright also seem worthy of special rpention, though. It's a small volume, as anthologies go, but a well-designed, well-made book which aims for and achieves quality rather than quantity. Weather Man's Holiday the weather" is an old saw, but when weather men themselves talk, they put new teeth in it. Their discussions are considerably more involved than "Hot enough for you?" -- and of considerably more interest to science fiction readers. This year's meeting of the American Meteorological Society in New York City, for instance, heard talks on the weather on Mars and Jupiter, sun spot cycles, and # milean-hour winds high in the sky. The atmosphere of Jupiter was discussed by Dr. Yale Mintz of the University of California, that of Mars by Dr. Jean I. F. King of the Air Force's Cambridge Research Center. The huge, impervious clouds surrounding Jupiter, said Dr. Mintz, are formed by its atmosphere of methane' ("marsh gas") and ammonia gas with a little nascent hydrogen and helium. The spots which have long puzzled astronomers appear in many respects to be like the high level cyclones in the earth's upper atmosphere and may -- or may not -- be related to the activity of the sun. Measurements of the atmosphere of Mars are easier than those of the atmosphere of the earth, according to Dr. King, because the Martian atmosphere has no oxygen and is thought to be water-free. The albedo -- reflecting power -- of Mars is known to an accuracy of three decimal points, that of the earth at best to only two. This Martian atmosphere appears to be stable up to an altitude of four and a half miles, Dr. King said. Studies suggest that the surface temperature is about # degrees on the Kelvin scale, or # below zero Fahrenheit, and that at four and a half miles up this drops to # degrees Kelvin, or # below zero. As for sun spots, Dr. Donald H. Menzel of the Harvard College Observatory reported that they do come in I #and #-year cycles, but that though many attempts have been made to establish relationships between these cycles and our weather, no reliable correlation has been found. Dr. Fred B. Whipple, head of the Harvard University Department of Astronomy, pointed out that astronomers have no explanation for how solar disturbances could have a direct effect on the earth's weather. And Dr. Bernhard Haurwitz, chairman of the Department of Meteorology and Oceanography of New York University, summed it up: "I am inclined to think that there is some relation between solar events and the weather here on earth. But, darn it, what is it?" The invisible jet-speed streams of wind high in the skies, which may be detected by the observation of cloud formations, were described by Dr. Vincent J. Schaefer, of the General Electric Company's research laboratories. These hurricanes of the higher regions, known to meteorologists for only a few years, are usually # to # miles wide and travel at speeds up to # miles an hour around the world, usually from west to cast. Besides cloud types, clues to their presence are found in gustiness at ground level, cool crisp air, blue skies with unlimited visibility, and precipitation limited to sporadic sprinkles of rain or snow. Further observation of these winds should enable airplanes to use them to good advantage in the near future. The Long-Lost Virus years, was found again recently in the University of Michigan laboratories. And scientists concerned were amazed to discover that it was still alive. The virus was originally discovered in # by Dr. Frederick G. Novy, the university's famed bacteriologist, since retired. It was so drop would kill a rat. After it had been watched closely for # years, the test tubes containing it were lost during a change in laboratory personnel in #. When the box containing the test tubes was rediscovered recently, Dr. Novy was consulted immediately. Experiments made under his direction showed that the virus had lost some of its potency, but still killed # of the laboratory rats infected with it in three to I I days. What the effect of the virus would be on human beings is not known. Poker in the Test Tube conditions but in which bluffing and cheating are not only permitted but encouraged, is being played at the University of Wisconsin. You don't have to have a huge stack of chips to get into the game, but you must have a command of advanced calculus! The idea is to collect material for Prof. R. Creighton Buck's course in the "theory of games," which is a complex and important mathematical concept. It was first formulated by John von Neumann in #, and defines a game as any situation in which groups with conflicting interests participate but over which they have only partial control. Prof. Buck, who has occasionally written science fiction, points out examples in economics, military' strategy', and other important phases of modern life. The buyerseller relationship, he says, is essentially a game played by opponents who do not have full knowledge of each other's intentions or decisions. The United States armed forces recognized the importance of practical applications of the theory of games early in World War II, and developed many of von Neumann's concepts in what they call "operational research." Prof. Buck chose poker for his own research because it has always been considered the game in which human behavior can be studied to best advantage. New Theory on Cancer  tor in the development of cancer, it is indicated by experiments in Lebanon Hospital's Institute for Medical Research in Los Angeles. The most significant difference about this research is that for the first time normal cells growing in laboratory cultures have been transformed into cancerous cells without the use of cancer-inducing chemicals. The change was brought about by intermittently depriving the test cells of oxygen over a period of many months. The research does not necessarily prove that lack of oxygen is an important factor, but it docs shed a good deal of new light on the behavior of cells. Wristwotch TV phone with you in the future, and it'll be equipped with a tiny television screen so you can see the person at the other end of the "line"! So says Dr. Harold S. Osborne, former chief engineer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. The device will be about the size of a modern watch, as Dr. Osborne envisions it, so it will be perfectly natural to wear it on a wristband. Furthermore, he believes that every human being will be assigned his personal, permanent telephone and registration number at birth. Dr. Osborne doesn't go into the difficulties this may create for people who merely want to be alone -- or the possible embarrassment to absent-minded souls who may forget to remove their "wristwatches" before taking a shower! Esophagi Made to Order Los Angeles recently, a baby was born without an esophagus. This malformation, called atresia, occurs about once in # births, seems to run in families, and is often fatal. At least, it was in the past. This time, a surgeon succeeded in "building" an esophagus in the thrcc-day-old infant. He did it by transplanting a sixinch section of the baby's large intestine, with its original blood and nerve connections, to the position of the missing organ. Normally, the esophagus connects the throat with the stomach. In some cases of atresia, it is connected to the windpipe instead of the throat. These cases can often be remedied by an operation, but this is only the second case in history in which a substitute has been found and successfully inserted for a completely missing tube. The doctor who performed the operation had tried it successfully on animals, and had waited ten years for a chance to use it on a human being. eastern coastline of the United States end heoas North over the Great Lakes at a height of about I ,# miles. The captain awaits his lending pattern instructions, rot yet knowing whether he will touch dawn tail first or come in flat with brakes on. (Drawings by Ed Vahgurskyi i  portation in the future. Incorporating many scientific advances, they'll have most of the advantages ond none of the disadvantages of air travel. Rocket-pcwer will make extremely high speeds possible, and the "coaches" will be built in several stories to accommodate more passengers. Gyroscopic stabilization will insu r e safety. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg, illustrating An Undersea Civilization I #I " #I Robot Mining by Ed Valigursky   IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publedi n Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo. New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # iswes; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscript. #c a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue cti sale January # dead language. That, of course, is a trick statement, designed to arrest attention. It does so, if successful, by a calculated use of the word "good" in strict compliance with dictionary definitions. It takes lots of words to define "good" completely, but these are prominent: sufficient for its purpose, ample, possessing desirable or attractive qualities, wellbehaved, virtuous, sound and reliable, socially in good repute. (That last one is interesting -- Webster rarely finds himself backed into a comer where he has to use a word to define itself.) If your first reaction to the opening sentence was one of sharp disagreement, you were using the word "good" carelessly. All right -- carelessness is one of the influences which keep any living language constantly changing. There are others as well. With all of them in operation, no living language can be completely sufficient for its purpose, entirely ample, possessing only desirable or attractive qualities, strictly well-behaved, virtuous, sound and reliable. At least part of the time, too, it will be socially in ill repute. Our language, because we use it, is a highly suspicious character. It is adaptable, resilient, and fast on its feet. It twists words like "good" to mean all sorts of unlikely things, it adds to "good" to construct other words, and it invents completely new words to cover parts of the territory formerly occupied by "good." So it isn't a good language -- acording to Webster. and them's nothing very surprising about it. But let's carry it a step further by examining a couple of other facets of the changing process. Members of any given profession or specialized group have a language of their own. Some of this is pure slang which is never assimilated into the common language, although some of it could be quite usefully. One of the first things an editor learns is that the part of a magazine story that is continued in the back of the book is the "jump", and thereafter he always refers to it as such. You never heard the term outside an editorial office, and it's certainly simpler than "continuation" or the painfully frequently heard, " You know -- where it says 'Continued on page so-and-so... " Science and technology, naturally, are increasingly responsible for words that are new, compounded, or adapted to new meanings: amplidytie and analogue, cybernetics and cyclotron, icsnatron and rcsojrt, winterize and wobblepuriip Part of the credit for "winterize" goes to advertising and public relations men, a sccializcil group whose members vie hungrily with each other in tin creation and spread of novel and cat by words. In any ease, words describing inventions and discoveries that are headlines today hut will henceforth affect the average man profoundly arc hound to creep into his language. technologists are turning their attention more directly to problems of communication and the exchange of information. Cyberneticists and others interested in this new science (yes, Information is now a science, the word having acquired a slightly new meaning of its own in the process) are intent on finding flaws and failures in effective communication, and are progressing by leaps and jet-blasts. What we've been getting around to, and what we hope such investigators will consider, is that flawed or unsuccessful communication may sometimes he deliberate. People, in many cases, don't want others to understand them. There arc specialized groups that speak their own languages to bar understanding by outsiders through sheer selfishness or outright maliciousness. To his teacher, the third grade youngster speaks the best English she is capable of teaching him. With his own age group, as soon as he is outside the school building, he uses only their current slang and -- what is worse -- the deliberately ungrammatical language required by their unwritten code. If hr doesn't, he isn't one of the gang. Teen-agers, of course, commit even worse crimes against the language. hut llieir jargon has been discovered by magazine writers, gets into print occasionally, and some of it drills into the main stream. This is an accident that has nothing to do with this basic argument. Look around you! Fans of various forms of sports mumble cryptically, hypnotizing themselves into dangerous dreams of the good old days. Women when alone speak a language incomprehensible to men. and undoubtedly use it as camouflage for all sorts of evil schemes. Avid science fiction fanatics, the kind who have long since cut themselves loose from the rest of humanity, invent new ways of blowing up the universe and make it appear that they arc only discussing the most recent convention. Cabots speak only to Lowells, and Lowells ain't talkin' to nobody. It takes a strong mind to resist the pressure. Many otherwise good minds yield to it and arc lost forever. It's a vicious spiral downwards, with warped speech leading to warped thinking which produces more warped speech. Clarity and lucidity are difficult ideals to attain. The communication of ideas is not easy at best. Scientists, in their new' and admirable attempts to discover why this is so, should not confine their investigations to man's sub-conscious mind. The conscious mind is in there pitching. -- Its The Vike tide is rising -- and it's doom, brothers , doom! Get fixed with sensational stereos, laming senso's, seductive skin tints, super-sending hypos! Loin your girds for battle with the Ree's... malice in wonderland By Evan Hunrer Illustrated by Kelly Freas the trouble signs when they First even before a paback hit the stands, started. Looking back, I can sec I pulled my chair closer to the desk some very small and simple. But as "Yes, sir?" Her voice was soft, it was... well-modulated. I pulled Bclazi's review out of "Honey," I said, "see if you can the com, read it quickly, and then get Clark for me, will you?" sat back to enjoy a quiet chuckle. "Yes, sir." She clicked off, and I He killed me. The guy absolutely thought of something and buzzed paralyzed me. I held the review out her again. "Sir?" ar arm's length, and I read it over "And have Clipinc get me copies again, and I nearly choked laughof all the papes carrying reviews of ing. It was getting so I could preStolen Desire, will you?" "Yes, sir." I sat back again, arid shook my head in wonder at Dino Brlazi a nd all the other Rcc's. They'd never learn. They'd sit in their high porcelain bathtubs until the Vike tide reached up past their nostrils and drowned them. Clark Talbot's book had been a masterpiece of Vike literature. So Bclazi had dipped his duck quill deep in Ree blood and torn it to pieces with archaic language. Typical. Typical, and doomed, because the Vikes were -- The buzzer sounded and I clicked on. "Yes?" "I have Mr. Talbot for you, sir. On five." "Thanks, Liz." I swung my chair around and snapped on five, foeusing the picture. Clark was still in his pajamas, and there was the flabby look of sleep on his rough-hewn features. "Oh, good morning, Van," he said. I showed him my teeth in a wide grin, and he winced and licked his lips with his tongue. "You see what Bclazi brewed on Stolen ?" I asked. "No. Is it out yet?" Clark's face became interested, and the sleep began to flee from his eyes. "Hit the stands this morning. Belazi's on the com now, if you want to pull it." "Did you pull it?" "Sure, got it right here." "Let me sec it," he said. Then he shook his head and put one hand over his eyes. "No, read it to me instead." "Big night?" "Hcrrocoke. You ever try it?" "I never mix, Clark." "I was blind, Van. It's really destruction. You should try -- " He stopped short, blinked his eyes and asked, "You mean you never mix? Never?" "My habit is short and straight, and needs no mate." Clark shook his head "Mister, you're just a Ree in disguise. VVhat'd Bclazi chop about?" "The usual. Full up a chair." "Will I need one?" "Hell, no. Every sad review the bank. You should pray he doesn't honeymoon you." "Fat chance. The day Bclazi gives one of my pabacks a favorable review, I'll cat the book -- glue and all." "Corn in the morn, Clark. You'd better just loin your girds and listen." "They're loined. On, father." "There's the usual feese heading it: title. scribe, pub, and price. Then: 'Clark Talbot, chief purveyor of Vicarious filth, is represented on the pocket-size stands this morning with a lewd, lascivious, obscene, and pornographic document titled...' " "How was that again?" "Lewd, lascivious, obscene, and pornographic." "Father, that is pure feese for the falcons." "He seems to feel the same way about your book. Shall I go on?" "Fire at Billy Boy." "Still quoting: 'pornographic document titled Stolen Desire. As with all Vicarious literature, and with the entire Vicarious Movement in general, this alleged novel seeks to arouse and to excitate...' " "Excltate?" "So llie man said." Clark shrugged. "Excltate," he said dully. "More, Van." " 'to cxcitate the body, to stimulate the diseased mind, to fabricate an existence completely alien to that surrounding us. Realistically  #    "Oops, here comes the Rcc pitch again." " 'Realistically, it serves no purpose. It is a symposium of smut, as narcotic as the more tangible drugs the Vicarious Movement has...' " "Stop! Enough. I gather he didn't care much for it. Wouldn't you say so, Van?" "Well, I think he was mildly goofed by it, yes. So what? Sc room." Clark looked mildlv serious. "I suppose so. But sometimes... Oh well. You going to that Deborah thing tonight?" "Maybe. What's on?" "Some new stuff, she said. But then, you don't mix." "Nope, I don't mix." "Well, she's also got a new senso. Supposed to be the cat's. Drop around. I want to talk to you about tri-dim rights to Even Dozen, anyway." "Sorry, Clark. I close my office at seventeen." "Well hell, father..." "You want business, come around at about fourteen today. Otherwise, I'll sec you tonight. But no business chop, chum." "The trouble with agents..." "Fcesc for the falcs, Clark. I'll see you later." "Yeah," he mumbled. I snapped off and the picture faded. I thought about Bclazi's review for a few moments, and then I buzzed Lizbeth again. When she came on, I said, "Did you round up those papes, honey?" "Yes, sir." "Bring them in, will you?" "Yes, sir. Right away, sir." I waited for a few seconds until the door slid open and Lizbeth stepped through. She was a small blonde, and the dailies she carried fairly hid her head. She staggered over to the desk, dropped the pile onto its polished top and then backed away. the new sec-thru skirts, but in the light she stood in it was opaque. The skirt was belted around her waist with a narrow red sash. Above the skirt, her flesh was firm and taut, her breasts high. I stared at them for a moment and asked, "That's new, isn't it?" She looked down at her naked breasts. "Do you like it?" "I'm not sure." "It's a new shade. It changes with the light, too, the way the skirt does." I walked to the window and pressed the button in the sill. The blinds slanted downward quickly, bathing Lizbeth in a warm glow. It caught the skirt in its molten web, turning the material to a thin translucent stuff through which I saw the outline of her legs, the tops of her stockings taut against her thighs. Her breasts had suddenly shifted shades, their undersides shimmering in dazzling silver, their sloping tops a pale fuchsia. "Dc you like it?" she asked. "Yes, I think so. It's effective." I turned away and began thumbing through the dailies. As I'd suspected, the Ree columnists had all blasted hell out of Clark's book. That was good. That was fine. Still, there were a lot of them and they had a lot of sympathetic readers. But tables were made to be turned. "Honey, I want you to have bigs made out of Belazi's com review, and a few stereos, also. We'll use the bigs in our regular ad space; and try to get us some time for the stereoshows. The sooner the better. Call Sterling Baker at Triple Press and tell him what we plan. Hint that I'd like him to split the cost. If he sounds goofed, forget it. But try to convince him, Liz. Hell, lie'll bi sharing in the profits." "Yes, sir." "You might give him a full shot of yourself when you call. Stand in the light." I looked at the skirt again. "That's a very effective gizmo." "Thank you, sir." "Has Bruce called in yet?" "No, sir." "Put him through as soon as he does, will you?" "Yes, sir." "Had your morning fix?" "No, sir." "Neither have I. What's your pleasure?" "Opaine." "Another mixer." I shook my head. "You're trading your womb for a tomb, Liz." Lizbeth shrugged, and the sudden shift of light turned her breasts a deep blue. Effective gizmo was rnilding it, I thought, and made a decision. "It's no fix without the tricks, father." "Well spoke, but a big joke. Want to join me?" I didn't wait for an answer. "Bring your kit in." "There's someone waiting to see you, sir." "Scroom. Bring your kit in. He can wait." "It's a she, sir." "So, scroor. She can wait, too." "I'm honored, father," Liz said, smiling. "Come on, mother. It's later than you think." She turned and walked toward the door, and her skirt turned opaque again, hiding the long curve of her legs. The door slid open as she reached it, and I looked through to the reception room, saw a tall redhead sitting on the couch, her legs crossed, l'he door slid closed, hiding her from view, and I walked to the bar and took out my kit. I unsnapped the leather case, opened it, and selected one of the silver vials inside. The chron set in the case's lid told me it was nine twenty-five, and nine thirty was happy time. I brought the vial to my desk, checked the gauge to be sure the fix was adequate, and waited for Lizbeth. The door slid open, and she came in carrying a small, red leather woman's kit. She laid the kit on the desk, her breasts shading to a pale chartredsc as she stepped into the shadow of the drapes. She snapped open the lid, selected a silver vial, and asked, "Sure you won't try a mixed fix? Grand kicks, father." "I'm straight," I told her. "On what?" "Morph." She wrinkled her nose. "It's your snort, but why make life short?" The hands of the chron nudged nine-thirty. "Time to kick" I said. I placed the silver vial on the desk, swabbed my arm with alcohol, and then picked up the hypo again. I traced it along the vein, waiting until the indicator told me I'd score. I glanced at Lizbeth who had lifted her skirt and was running the vial along her thigh. Most women used their legs, preferring not to mark arms which were constantly exposed. "Well," I said, "happy." "Here's to you." We pressed the buttons on our vials simultaneously, and I felt the sharp slender needle puncture my vein, felt the drug ooze from the vial, felt the vial draw back the drug mixed with blood, pump it into my body again, out, in, out, in. "Destruction," I murmured, my eyes dosed. "Doom," Lizbeth answered, her eyes beginning to glaze, her mouth partly opened as the drug took hold. I released the button, twisted the cap of the vial so that it would clean the needle, and then put it back in the kit, alongside the other empties. Lizbeth snapped shut the lid on her case. "This is good stuff," I told her. "Wherc'd you order it?" "Swift's Drugs. We've always got it from them." "Mm? Well, this is unusually good. You might order more at once. We may get some of the same lot. Incidentally, is everyone in the office supplied?" "We ordered a new shipment of benzejuana yesterday." "Benzejuana? Who's the square?" "One of the stock clerks. A Ree convert. He's breaking in slow." "Mother, how slow can you get? Give him a pop of herro tomorrow. That or two weeks' notice. Groove?" "I understand," she said. Her speech was slow, her lids half-covering her blue eves. "What brews this eve, Liz?" "With me?" "Uhrn." "Naught, father." "Fine. I'll be by at twenty. A party." Her eyes twinkled. "Father, I'm dead," she said gaily. "Fine. Send the girl in, Liz. Tell her I've an appointment at..." I glanced at my wrist chron. "... nine forty-five. Tell her we'll have to make this short." "Grooved," she said, and then she was gone. I hitched up my breeches, looking at myself in the full-length mirror set next to the bar. The breeches were tight, and the new stuff I'd used on my chest had given me a wild crop of hair there. I nodded in satisfaction and sat down behind my desk. In a few moments, the door opened, and the girl entered. to know she was a Ree. She was wearing a skirt that reached below her knees, and the blouse she wore had long sleeves and a neckline that hugged her throat. She wore almost no makeup. The only vivid color about her was in her hair, and that was gathered at the nape of her neck in a tight bun. She even wore flats, dc-emphasizing the curve of her legs. There didn't seem to be a bra beneath her blouse or girdle under her skirt -- which was something. But otherwise she was strictly Ree, and an arty type at that. "Mr. Brant?" she asked. "Yes?" "My name is Lydia Silvcrstein. "Have a seat, won't you, Miss Silvcrstein?" I thought of what my own name had been before I'd joined the Vikes. John Branoski. Van Brant was a definite improvement. She sat in the chair I offered, crossed her legs, and demurely pulled her skirt down. "What can I do for you, Miss Silvcrstein?" "I'm a writer," she said. "I gathered. Most people who come to literary agents are." Her green eyes widened slightly, and her lips parted. "Yes. Yes, I suppose they are." She sucked in a deep breath and said, "I've written some stereoshows." " Have you?" I said solicitously. "Yes. But I've been having trouble getting them aired." "Oh?" "Yes. I'm a Rce." I smiled and looked at the blouse. "I wouldn't have guessed." "I suppose you're wondering why I came to you." "Well..." The buzzer sounded on my desk, and I clicked down the toggle. "Excuse me," I said. Then: "Yes?" "I've got Mr. Alloway on seven." "Thanks, Liz." I turned, snapped on seven, and focused. "Hello, Bruce." "Hello, Van. What brews?" Bruce was a handsome lad who'd recently had a nose bob. He was wearing crimson breeches, his chest curling with blond hair that was striking against the bronze of his skin. He'd had the hair on his head tinted blond, too, leaving his eyebrows their original black for a really unusual effect. "I was wondering how you're getting along on the new senso," I said. "All right, I suppose." "Ails? Ills?" "Small smells, that's all. I need a chick with a frontage. These damn senso things demand too much." "Would you rather be back writing for the pabacks?" "Don't make glip, father." "I'm the original glib lip," I told him. "Since when is the scribe casting the show?" "You ever work with Lana Davis?" "Only to take her checks. Why?" "She's got Rce tendencies, I swear." I glanced quickly at Miss Silvcrstein, and then turned back to Bruce. "How so?" I asked. "You know how these sensoiy shows work. I swear, father, the step below is a better one. I'd rather do tri-dims any day of the week." "Less slop and more chop, Bruce. I've got someone with me." "All right, I'll get straight to the point. I've got a busty bazoo in one n scene. Davis doesn't want falsies. She says the viewers can spot them and feel them. She wants the real thing. Is that Ree feese, or is it?" "She's right," I said. "Hell, Iiruce, she's been producing senso's for a long time now. She knows what the customers want." "But the real thing? There ain't no such chick. Christ, Van, not the way I've written it." "So change the script." "That's the crux, Van. She likes it the way it is." He shook his head. swear." "Then do it her way. Pop over to Deborah Dean's tonight. You'll sec plenty of frontage You might be able to get something." Bruce didn't look convinced. "Did you read the script?" lie asked. "No." "I thought so. If you had, you'd know there is no chick with a natch frontage like that. Oh, the hell with it." "What do you mean?" "I mean, scroor. I can always get back into tri-dims -- and if worse comes to worst, there's the pabacks. At least the money is steady and I don't have to take feese from a chick with an Oedip as long as my arm." "She been psyched, or arc you just guessing?" "I'm guessing, but it's a sure thing. In the last sequence I did for her, she insisted my baddy was destroying the father image. Father image! How's that for the falcs?" "Stick with it, Bruce. It's cool cash. So you put up with a nut, so what?' "Yeah," Bruce said disgustedly. "I'll sec you tonight?" "Deborah's?" "Yeah, at about twenty or twenty-one." "I'm with you." "Grooved." to Miss Silvcrstein, who had jiolitely stared out the window during the conversation. "Now then," I said, "what can I do for you?" "Was that Bruce Alloway?" she asked. "Himself." "He...he makes a lot of money, doesn't he? Writing, I mean." "One of our best scribes." She nodded, thinking of the money, and not the quality of Bruce's writing. "I want to make a lot of money," she said suddenly. "Everyone docs." "I...I've never tried any Vikc stuff." "What have you written?" She turned her head, and a flush suffused her neck, spread over her face. "Stuff," she said. "You know." "Stark realism? Slices of life? Turning the cruel, cold spotlight on suffering humanity? Exposing the I  "You needn't make fun," she snapped. "I wasn't. I used to handle that kind of stuff until I hopped aboard. If you want to make money, you'd best turn in your pen for a later model. You can sell that slice-oflife feese to some of the small Ree journals for five bucks a throw. I won't handle it." "Why not?" "Because an agent's commission on a five-dollar sale is fifty cents. I run a business, not a benevolent society." "But...but do you really believe in this Vikc stuff you sell? I mean, do you honestly believe it's literature?" "What's literature?" I asked. "I define it as the profession of a writer or author." "That's a rather narrow definition." "It's also what people read. If people no longer read Beowulf , it's no longer literature. Vike literature serves a need in our society. If it needs any raison d'etre, that's it." "And...you'd recommend that I write that kind of...of stuff?" "If you want to. I'm not recommending anything." "Where do I begin?" she asked earnestly. "First, shorten your skirt by about three feet. Throw your blouse away and show your breasts. Get some tints and real cosmetics, and find a habit. If you're bedding with anyone, kick him the hell out. Live with Vikcs and cat with Vikes and learn what it's all about. As they used to say, get with it. That's the only way you can write it, and the only way you can sell it." "I...I see." "Toss over all your realistic beliefs, because they've no place in the Vike world. Then come back in a year or two and let me see what you've got." "Such a long time? Couldn't it be done faster?" I smiled. "I sec you've read Fygmalion. One of the prime examples of early Vike literature. I thought that was on the Ree spit list." "It is." "And you read it anyway, huh? Well, that's promising." I thought it over. "Maybe you can do it faster, who knows? What's your name?" "Lydia Silverstein." "Change it, and fast. Come back in a week, and I'll talk to you then." She smiled ingratiatingly. "All light. Thanks a lot. I really -- " "No slop, mother. Come back in a week with a new name. We can use some good women scribes if you work out." "Thank you. Thank you very -- " "So long, Miss Silverstein." She rose abruptly, walking, swiftly to the door. It slid open as she approached it and then closed gently behind her. I left my desk and glanced at my wrist chron. It was already nine forty-six, and Hayden Thorpe didn't like to be kept waiting. I walked to the closet, took a bottle of alcojel from the shelf on the door, and rubbed it over my chest, arms, and back. It dried almost instantly, leaving a high sheen on my muscles. I looked into the mirror appreciatively, winked at myself, and then closed the closet door. I, walked back to my desk and buzzed Lizbeth. "Sir?" "I'm leaving, Liz. I may be back this afternoon. If not, I'll see you at twenty tonight." "Fine, Van." "You know where I'm going now, don't you?" "Mr. Thorpe's?" "Right. You can reach me there if it's urgent. Otherwise, I'm in Outer Mongolia." "Grooved, Van." "Keep thee close, Liz." I said. I heard her chuckle as I clicked off. I took one last look in the mirror, and then headed for the lift and the sixteenth level. II leaving the room black for an instant, somehow cold and empty after what had been. I sank back in the upholstered chair, feeling completed exhausted. Music flowed from the wall speaks, and the lights came on, soft and golden. "Well." Hayden Thorpe asked, "how'd you like it?" "I'm dead," I said. I wasn't kidding. It had been terrific. Positively sensational. Hayden beamed happily. "This is going to set the senso industry on its arse, Van. I'm telling you it's the greatest goddamned tiling since video." "You've sold me, Hayden," I said. "How many scribes will you need ?" "Always business," he said, chuckling. He nudged one of his assistants and asked, "What do you Lawrence chuckled back, not daring to offend me by agreeing with Hayden, yet not wanting to seem disagreeable. "What'd you think of the love scene?" he asked me. "Destruction," I said. It had been. I'd never experienced anything like it before. "Felt as if the chick was really in your arms, didn't it?" Hayden asked. "In my arms? Father, I could feel her flesh and smell her perfume. Hayden, you've got something here that..." "That's only half of it, Van," Hayden said proudly. "Remember, we call this Individual Sensory Productions. Just a sec." He leaned back and pressed a button on the arm of his chair. Above the music coining from the speaks, came a well-modulated feminine voice. "Yes, sir?" "Rhonda, would you come in a moment, please?" "Certainly, Mr. Thorpe." Hayden leaned forward again and said, "My secretary, Van. I think you'll be a little surprised by what she has to say." I nodded and waited for the door to slide open. When it did, a tall brunette entered, c arrying a small stenotab. Her hair was piled high on her head, accentuating her height, in the fashion most tall girls affected. She wore her breasts pitch black, matching her hair, with silver sequins scattered from the center in a haphazard smear. Her skirt was long, but slit up the center and revealing laced, translucent underwear as she walked across the room in long-legged strides. She sat in a chair next to Hayden, crossed her legs and poised her slender fingers over the keys of the stenotab, ready for dictation. "No," Hayden said, "I just wanted you to tell Mr. Brant something." "Yes, sir," she said. She arched her brows, batted her lashes over the auburn contact lenses she wore. "What was it, sir?" "You saw the indi-senso we ran yesterday, didn't you?" "Yes, sir." "Do you remember the love scene?" A pulse in her throat quickened, and she lowered her eyes. "Yes, sir." "Will you describe it to Mr. Brant?" "Well... at was set on a balcony..." "Yes?" "And...and it was a starry night..." I remembered the balcony, and I remembered the stars. I also remembered how crisp the air had smelled. The hero had taken the girl into his amis, and I had actually felt the pressure of her breasts, the silkiness of her hair. I'd smelled the musky fragrance of her perfume, tasted the faint mint flavor of her lipstick. It had been an experience, one of the best senso's I'd ever seen. But I was beginning to wonder just why the hell Thorpe was putting his secretary through an inquisition. "The...the girl went into the boy's arms," Rhonda said. "And then he kissed her." "Yes, go on." "I...his face was rough, as if he had shaved but not too closely. There was the smell of aftershave on his face, I remember, and an old leather smell about him, somehow. You know what I mean. A very...masculine smell." I looked at the girl in astonishment, beginning to understand just exactly what Hayden had accomplished. "His arms were very strong," she said. "They'd been coated with alcojel, you know the odor. He'd been smoking before that, and I could...could taste the tobacco on his mouth. It...it was very nice." She paused, seeming to wander into a reverie. "Very nice." "Thank you, Rhonda," Hayden said. "You may go now." Hayden could hardlv contain himself until the door slid shut behind her. "Well, Van?" he asked, a smile mushrooming over his face. "I don't believe it," I said. "It was a put up job." "God's truth," Hayden said. "The gal saw the show yesterday. I haven't spoken to her since." I digested this for about three seconds. "Father," I said, "you're a crazy, drug-loving, psyched-up will set the industry..." "...on its arse. Just what I said. Individual senso's, Van. The men live a completely different experience than the women. I've brought viewpoint to the senso's, Van. It overwhelms me when I think of it. I'm a goddamned genius!" "Genius! You're going to be a going to have more money than God!" Hayden turned to his assistant. "Take a pow, Lawrence," he said. "Yes, sir," Lawrence answered obediently. He walked to the door and left soundlessly. Hayden's face turned suddenly serious. "You think I've got something, Van? " "Got something? Hayden, this is the most terrific thing I've ever... "I need money," he said quickly. ment. Hayden had been producing senso's lor a long time now. If there was anyone I thought was comfortably fixed, it was him. "You're kidding," I said. "No. No, I'm straight, Van." "Moncv? You?" "My habit is long and strong," he said. "Corradou." "Oh." Corradon was a synthetic drug. Jt cost a hell of a lot, even now that narcotics were legal. A eorradonict needed a pile, and lie needed a pile measured in miles. "This thing is the biggest," lie said. "There's plenty in it for both of us. You back me, Van, and we're wedded." "Five-live?" I asked. "You know the idea itself rates a seven-three," Hayden said. "At least a six-four, anyway." He shrugged and spread his hands wide. "Without the moo, though, I've got nothing. You bac k me, and I'll make it an even split. Grooved?" "How much do you need?" "Two stones." "What!" "I thought I could get by on one, hut it's impossible. Even cutting to the bone, it would come to at least a stone and a half." I shook my head. "I haven't got that kind of money, Hayden." "How much can you raise immediately?" "Nine hundred gee. Maybe." Hayden nodded. "That's not bad. That's only a gee short of a stone. Can we raise the other I le looked at me, saw the dubious look on my face, and said, "Did you sec the stars in that chick's eves   when she desi ribed the mush to von: Did you ever srr anyone look   # like that talking about an ordinary senso? Hell, Van, you saw the show yourself Was it. or wasn't it?" "It was." "Did it fix you?" "It fixed me. Jt was doom. But two stones..." "You said you could raise close go. If you can get the nine hundred gee by the end of the week, we can start production. We'll need another half stone by the end of the month, and the remainder for the bally just before release. That won't he for another six months, at least." "How long did it lake you to make the pilot?" I asked. "Three months." "And you figure on a full-length feature in six months? Father, what are you mixing?" "All right, the pilot you just saw was a fifteen minute show. But we were working out a lot of hugs, and the medium was new. There'll be no guessing on the featch. Van. Wc'vc got it down pat. When I say six months, I mean six months. Not a dav over." "What about scribes?" "That's vour end. Y'ou'rc a literary agent, aren't you?" "How many will we need?" "I used a team of six men and six women for the pilot. We need both, you know. This takes a special kind of writing. Van, you don't know the half of it." "I know we won't get six of each lor less than a stone. My scribes are high-priced, Havden." "Can't you -- " "I'm their agent. I work for them , remember?" "Then get some low-priced scribes. Get one of each, a man and a woman. They don't have to be terrific. The medium will carry the lousiest writing, as long as it's suited to the process. Besides, it's new. There arc no experienced scribes lor this sort of thing." "How high can we go?" "You're not thinking of your goddamned commish, are you?" "Hell, no! I want to know who I can get. For that, I want to know what I can pay." "All right. We can go to twenty gee." "Per." "I was thinking of twenty gee for both. If we have to make it per, okay." Hayden smiled. "It's your money, Van." "Yeah." I stood up and took his hand. "Deal?" I asked. "Deal," he said. "Real," I acknowledged. "I'll have the moo by the end of the week. Nine hundred gee. Another five hundred by the end of the month, and the rest in six months or so." "Right." "I see the light, father." "Call me, Van," he said. "This thing is big." "Your language is small," I said. "This thing is doom!" Ill pay phone. When his picture and voice came on, I said, "I'm using our usual scrambler. Want to tunc in?" "Hush stuff?" he asked. "Much hush. Mush, Bruce." "Sure," he said. I pressed a combination of buttons on the face of die instrument. That would scramble my voice so that only Bruce, after adjusting his own set to decode, would receive mv message. "Okay?" I asked. "Grooved." "Fine. You still want to take a pow on Lana Davis?" "I'd love to. How?" "I've got something big for you. It'll mean a cut, though." "How much of a cut?" "Down to twenty gee." "That's a mean slash, father." "I know. Do you want it?" Bruce shook his head. "I'd sure like to get from under that chick, Van. But twenty gee. Hell, after taxes, I'll have marbles." "This is the biggest goddamned thing you've ever fallen into," I said harshly. "I can get sixty scribes who'll do it for nothing, just for what it'll bring them later on. If you don't want it, I'll look elsewhere. So long, Bruce." "Hey, hold on, father!" "What is it?" "Well chop a little more about it. Be fair, Van." "I can't chop on the phone." "You're scrambled, Van. Hell JJ    "Even scrambled. Look, think it over. I'm your agent, and I say this is hot. You can remember who pulled you out of the pa backs, or you can donut-leap." "Van, give me a chance to -- " "I'll see you at Deborah's tonight. I'll tell you more then. But onlv if you're in. If you're cool, fool, this is too hot to spread around. You follow?" "All the way. It's big, hull, Van?" "Bigger than birth." "But a cut in cash." "It'll be the smartest move you ever made. 'I hink about it." I clicked off, smiling to myself. I stepped out of the booth, walked through the store and out onto the curb. I grabbed the first pneumotube that came by, punching the tabs near my seat as soon as I'd dropped in my coin. In three minutes, we'd traveled three miles, and I cursed the snail's pace until I remembered I was down on the fifth level. The signal light near my scat blared red, and I rose as the door slid open. J stepped onto the curb, looked for the numbers on the buildings, found the one I wanted, and walked inside. My heels echoed on the marble floors as I walked down the corridor. I passed two Rce's in the hallway, complete with shirts and tics, and wearing -- of all goddamned things -- hats. They studied the hair on my chest with obvious distaste, r wrinkled their noses, and hurried off down the hallway. I shrugged, and then walked into the reception room of Barton and Houston, my accountants. A redheaded switchboard operator, her skin tinted an offcolor green, sat with her hands darting out for rubbery, snakelike connections. ! ler shoulders were bare, as were her breasts, and she had left the skin between her collar bones and the lower side of her bosom its natural shade. The effect was a bit startling, and I glanced at it ap a relatively. She plugged one of the connections into a hole on the board. "Barton and Houston, good afternoon." I looked at my wrist chron. Damn if it wasn't thirteen-ten already. I whistled tunelessly while she disposed of the lights dickering on her board. When she turned to me. I said, "Jo Houston, please." "Who's calling, sir?" "Van Brant." "Just a moment, sir." window looking out over the criss-crossed, seemingly haphazard ribbons that wound through the sky above and below the fifth level. Stretching from the third level up to the ninth, I saw the full-length figure of the star of one of tin? stercoshows playing on the seventh level. As I watched, the gigantic figure sucked in a deep breath. Her breasts moved suggestively, and her navel filled with shadow. "Mr. Brant?" I turned awav from the window and the poster art, and walked back to the redhead, who was real. "Yes?" "Mr. Houston will sec you now', sir." She smiled, and I smiled back and walked through the gate and into Jo's office. He was sitting behind a cluttered desk, with an enormous ledger opened before him. When I came in, he rose and extended his hand. the body?" "Ticking and clicking, no kicking. And you?" "Sound and round, like money found. What brings you, Van?" "Business." "Oh?" "Liquidation," I said flatly. "Iluh?" "I need cash fast, Jo. I want you to get rid of all my holdings. I need close to a stone by Saturday." Jo whistled softly. "In a jam?" "No. Business." "Sounds good." "It is. Can you do it for me?" He spread the fingers of one hand wide. "Sure." Then he cocked his head to one side, his deep brown eyes set into the layers of flesh on his face. "Anything that might interest me?" "Sorry, Jo." Jo smiled. "Okay, okay." He held up his palm like a traffic robot. "So what's new otherwise?" "Nothing much. You?" "A few new accounts. You know Steele and Dawes?" "Advertising?" "Yes. Enormous. The boys who finally broke through the prohibish lobby. Wc just got them." "Oh yes, of course. The ones who started the new swing in liquor advertising." Jo nodded. "You remember what the ads used to be like. 'For mellow flavor' or 'for a taste treat.' Anything but what they really wanted to say." He chuckled amiably. "I'll never forget the first one. Van. The liquor was Daley's. Steele and Dawes plastered the town with tridim bottles. Everywhere you looked, a bottle was staring down at you. And all the copy said was: 'Daly's makes you drunker' n hell!' " He laughed aloud, and I laughed with him, remembering what a furoi that first honest whiskey ad had caused. When we'd quieted down, I said, "By Saturday then, Jo. You won't let me down?" "Have I ever?" "No." "I won't start now." "Grooved. I'll sec you." IV thing, but then all of Deborah Dean's parties were. She'd had one complete wall of the living room knocked down for the occasion, replacing it with a clear pane of plexoid that ran the length of the room. Her apartment was swank, very, high up on the fifteenth level, looking down over the city and the river. When I came in with Lizbcth on my ami, the lights were low in the room, and the city twinkled and sparkled outside the plexoid sheet like a galaxy of blazing, multi-colored suns. Deborah spotted us the moment wc came through the door and hurried over. She was the only woman I knew who could carry off green eyes and a blue skin tint well. Her breasts were spattered with sparkling gold dust, the nipples luminous in the dim light of the room. Her skirt was long in the back, almost trailing the floor, gashing upward in a wide V that terminated at her waist in the front. "Van," she cried, "How good!" I took the hand site extended, and smiled cordially. "Deborah, this is Lizbcth." Deborah grinned, and her eyes roamed Lizbcth's body candidly. I had to admit that Liz had really outdone herself tonight. She had a thin blue, shimmering strip of plastic decorously clinging to her breasts. She had chosen a peach skin tint, and had contrasted it with a pitch-black skirt that ended on her thighs. Her lips matched the plastic strip, and she'd done her hair to go with the skirt. We'd had a fix at her place, and her eyes sparkled behind their blue contacts. Even Deborah was impressed. She smiled again. "What's your pleasure?" "We've been fixed," I told her. "Maybe later." "You know where the bar is. Just help yourself. I've got a wonderful senso for later, and something new in a tri-dim. And. oh. I've got some destructive tapes. Van. The very latest sound." She dosed hei eyes ecstatically. "Doom, pure doom." "I'll be listening." I paused. "I'd like to talk to you later. Deb." "Why not now?" "Alone," I said. She patted my check, her hand cool and firm, a sensuous musky perfume rising from its palm. "As a matter of fac t, I want to talk to you, too. When the senso is showing, grooved? but I hate to have you miss it. It really is good." "I'll sec it some other time." "All right, Van. I'll look for you later." She waved and was gone, ready to greet another pair of guests. "She's nice," Lizbcth said. "I like her stomach. Who does it for her?" "I don't know. I didn't see anything unusual about it." "Didn't you notice? It was beautiful, Van. really. I'm surprised you didn't notice." "There's Rog Brooks," I said. "Who?" "Brooks. You know him. The big psych. I wonder what the hell lie's doing here." "Whv not? Psvchs are human." "Are they?" Lizbcth giggled and took my arm. "Come on," she said, "let's mingle." to where a small clique had got a song going. We listened to one chorus and joined in. on the refrain : "Pop it, moppet. Stick it in your rein. Push it in and pull it out And stick it in again Mass it, gas it. Das! thou pass it? Never! Never! Naaaaaay, fa-ther, We all enjoyed a good laugh, and then a tall, dark-haired boy in silver breeches began improvising a chorus: "There once was a Rec man named Ditto!" "Oh, yes," we chanted. "Who strolled on the old bal-colino "Yes" " lie tripped on his clothes. And ruptured his nose Inn most realistic f ash-in o! Ohhhhhhhhhhhh. He signaled for us to all join in, and we started once more with, " Pop it, moppet, stick it in your vein... " end of the refrain, and then a girl with pink shells on her nipples took up another chorus, a bit raw this time, but still funny. We were in the middle of another refrain when I saw Bruce Alloway come into the room. I excused myself and started for the door, the sound of the singing behind me. I grabbed Bruce by the arm before he'd had a c hance to say hello and began steering him toward a dark corner. "Hey," he complained, "what the hell's the rush?" "You want to hear tids, or don't you?" v "Sure, sui e. But I want to taste some of this new stuff I hear Deborah's got. Hell, father, I haven't had a fix since noon in preparation." "All right, go pop. But hurry back, Bruce." "Sure," he said, looking at me curiously. "Sure." He started toward the bar, waving his hand in greeting as Inpassed Rog Brooks, the psych. I followed Bruce with inv eyes until he reac hed thebar, and then lost him in the cluster of people there. When I swung inv eyes back. I realized that Brooks was heading in my direction. I turned my head away, pretending to look through the plexoid at the city. But he'd alreatly spotted me, so I gave it up and loined my girds. "Hello, then-, Brant," he called. I looked up feigning surprise. "Well, hello. Brooks. Long time no. Pull up." "Thunks." He hooked a small foam c ushion with his toe, pulled it toward him. and plopped down on it. Brooks was a tall, thin man with eager eyes set in an intense face, liespoiled a vandyke carefully trimmed on his chin and he wore his hair in its natural shade-, a deep black that hugge d his scalp like a helmet. I Ir cocked one raven brow and said, "Nice party." "Not bad," I admitted. "I didn't know you knew Deborah." "Oh yes," Brooks said. "Quite well." I le passed a clawlike hand ove-r his naturally hairy chest, scrate lied idly at one pee total. "One of my favorite patients, in fact." "That right?" "Yes." I felt somehow uncasv. I wasn't # used to psychs, and I'd never held a lengthy conversation with one-. Brooks seemed to be experiencing the same discomfort. We sat and stared at each other while a few long minutes dragged the ir feet laboriously through a fie-ld of molasse-s. Finally, I said, "So how's the psych business the-se days?" He shrugged his broad shoulde-rs. "Not loo good. Not for a Vike man, anyway. The Ree boys seem to be getting all the work." I wondered if he were kidding, but I didn't express skepticism. "What do you mean?" I asked. "It's a question of finding a norm," he said slowly. "I still don't groove.' Brooks spread his palms wide. "I was taught in a Ree school, Van. Got my Bah from a Ree college, my Mud from a Ree medical school and all my specialized training at Ree clinics. The emphasis was a little different." "How so?" "Great god Freud. Chew a cigar? You were weaned too early. Wash your hands often? You're a niastur. Glove anesthesia? You've got a guiltplex. You know the Ree pitch." "So?" "So along come the Vikes. And everybody flees into a dream world. Your norm is kicked in the arse." I didn't say anything, because I still didn't know what he was talking about. "Look at it this way. You establish a pattern. The majority of people don't go around picking their noses on pneuinotubes. All right, this is the norm. You get a guy who does pick his nose, he's a dcleg for a booby bin. But what happens when the norm is reversed? What happens when everyone seeks the world heretofore reserved for the schizoid? Who's normal then? And how do you treat the person who isn't?" "Arc you saying that Vikes are...mentally unbalanced?" Brooks smiled thinly. "I'm a Vike  myself. It's been ten years since I've touched a woman or wanted to touch one. I've been a morphict for three years, a herrict for four, and I've been on corradon for the last three, ever since it hit the market. My biggest charge is the senso's, but I'm not above reading the pabacks. A wild tape still gets a rise out of me. I know all the tricks and all the gimmicks. I've even come along with the language, which was probably the hardest part. Who am I to say Vikes are nuts?" "What are you saying then?" "I'm not saying anything. I came here tonight for the same tiling you did. Something like a cat house, isn't it?" "Listen, Brooks... "All right, you don't like what I'm saying. I don't much like it, either. I keep thinking about tomorrow, though. And the tomorrow after that. And tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow. What's the step beyond schizophrenia? Or mania? I'm afraid it's catatonia -- and that means doom." He saw the look on my face. "I'm not using it in the Vike sense, Brant. I mean doom. Plain old doom. The end. Finis. Pffft !" "You through?" "Sure, sure, I'm through. I understand Deb has some new stuff at the bar." He stood wearily and his eyes met mine for an instant, and then fled into their own retreat. "Maybe I'll try some. So long, Brant." He turned abruptly. "There was a young Ree girl who knew it!" "Oh, yes" "But didn't quite know how to do it.' "Yes.' "She sought an advisor Who quickly did size her... Amid the la ugh ter and the bubbling sound "I voiics lilted in song, in the dim lights glinting on scquined and painted bosoms, among mv fellows and friends, in niv   world, I watched Rog Brooks shoulder his way to the bar, a tail man walking with his head bent and his lists clenched. A strange man with strange ideas. But maybe, I thought, I shouldn't have been so short with him. lie was different, at least... and the song eelmed in my ears, and suddenly there was a cool hand on my bare flesh, and the aroma of Lizbeth's perfume in my nostrils. I shrugged her hand away. "Don't paw me," I said. "Sorry, father. You look sad. Want to pop?" "No." Liz giggled. "I got a confession. I already did. The new stuff. It's doom, Dad. IVhoo!" "I want solo," I said. "Take a pow." "Sure, Van. They're starting a round of Coverup, anyway, and I want to get in on it." "Have fun," I said. She turned and walked away from me, het hips swiveling, her high heels clicking against the marble floor. I looked across the room to the har, saw Bruce elbow his way free, straighten his hair, and start over toward me. I stood up, walked to meet him halfway, and said, "Let's step outside, Bruce. I don't want this overheard." "You act like a Martian spy," he said. "How the hell would you know what a Martian spy acts like?" "I read the sci-fix. Interesting." "That Ree le. se?" "Listen," he said earnestly, "it's the closest tiling the Rns have to real Vikc Mull, it's their one salvation." We'd reached the balcony, and I yanked open the manual sliding door, stepping outside into the night. A mild breeze played over the balcony, and Deborah had covered the place with rose hushes that oozed I heir pel fume onto the mild air. "So what's the big one?" Bruce asked. "A new senso. So big you can't itnadge, Bruce. Individual sensory experiences. Individual, Bruce. A man secs, feels, smells one thing. A woman another. Bruce, it's gigantic. It's like nothing we've got. I'm sinking all I own into it. I need scribes." Bruce screwed up his black brows. He was a moment before answering. "You like it?" "Yes." "I'm in." "Just like that?" "My lriend, before you came on the scene I was writing for the pahacks. I made an average of fifteen gcc a year, and you know how far that gets you. You came on then. Last year, I stacked close to half a stone. This sear, with six months to go yet, I've made that much already. I've never made a move you didn't suggest, and you've never suggested a move that wasn't right." Bruce shrugged, a little overwhelmed by his own sincerity. "You say this is big, it's big. You say I should get into it now, I get into it now. That's the way it is, Van. That's the kind of stupid bastard I am." I grinned in the darkness. "That's Rec talk, Bruce." "All right, change it to 'stupid let's go inside and get into the Covcrup. Christ, this is a dull party." I clapped him on the shoulder, and we started to head back for the party, and that was when I noticed how unusually quiet it was inside. Bruce must have detected the lack of sound at about the same time, because he turned to me with a puzzled expression on his face. Covcrup is usually a pretty damned noisy game during the donning stage. The stripping half is so quiet you can hear a pin drop, but hardly enough time had progressed for the game to have been in that stage yet. As if by common consent, we ran for the doors and into the room. The first person I saw was Deborah, and her face showed pale even through the blue tint. I was starting toward her when a voice shouted, "Iley, here's two more of the bastards." I whirled rapidly, and then I understood the silence in the room. the room, four Rcc's, smug grins on their faces. They were fully clothed, of course, wearing shirts, jackets, flapping trousers. The apparent leader of the group, the one who had spoken, looked younger than the others. His blond hair tumbled over his forehead, and his eyes insolently roamed the room, studying the naked bosoms of the women. I walked over to Deborah and asked, "Crashers, or did you invite them?" "My God, Van," she said. "Please!" "What's all the talk over there, Chesty?" the blond boy called. I turned and looked at him, and his friends formed behind him in a tight semi-circle. "You talking to me, son?" "Yeah, you with all the hair on your chest, and the shiny muscles. What's with you and Big Bust there?" Deborah glanced self-consciously at her breasts, feeling the lust in the blond youth's eyes. I felt embarassed for her, and I started across the room. "Ho, look," the blond shouted, "a hero in the crowd." I walked right up to him, and I heard Bruce padding across the floor behind me. The boy was as tall as I was and had well-rounded muscles beneath the rough cloth of his jacket. His eyes were slate grey, and he carried his mouth like an open switch-knife. "Are you looking for trouble, son?" I asked. He grinned and nudged one of his pals in the ribs. "Listen to Shiny Skin," he said. "Yeah, mister, we're looking for trouble." "You came to the right place," I said softly. Bruce pulled up alongside me, but I didn't turn my head. "Hey, look at the blond hair and black eyebrows," one of the Ree's said, indicating Bruce. "That takes it, boy." He began laughing, and they all joined in. They'd obviously been drinking heavilv. ' "Youd better go," I said. "You'd better go damned last. ' The blond boy thought that was hilarious. "Why?" he asked. "You gonna show me a movie or something?" "Oh" I said, "I get it." I le laughed again, sure of himself now. "Listen to the tough Vike, lxys. He gels all his lights from the stereos and sense's. That's the way lie enjoys his lights." He turned a sneer on me. "You're scarin' me to death, mister." "Grooved." I said. "You figure because we get our action vicariously we don't know how to get it any other wav. Is that right?" "Yeah" he said quickly. He turned to the boys then and said, "Hey. you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna grab one of these nude babes and show her what a real..." That was when my fist collided with his mouth. I felt his lip split, and then the sharp edge of his teeth knifed into my skin. A blossom of blood sprouted on his mouth, and he brought up his hand to his lips in surprise and terroL I slammed my other fist into Lis open hand, and his spread lingers tore into his flesh, almost gouging out his own eye. He backed up a few paces, and I jumped after him. I heard his pals yell something and grab for me, and then Bruce stepped into the picture and started throwing his weight around a little. I gave Blondic a pop in the eye that sent him staggering back to land right on his arse. He was ready to stand up when I lashed out with my hoot and caught him on the point of the chin. After that, lie wasn't read) to do anything. I turned quickly, about to take on another one, when I saw Rog Brooks i im across the room and tear one of the Roc's from Bruce's back. I threw myself headlong at the closest Roe and began throwing fists at his head. I wasn't used to this because it had been a long time since I'd had any practice, but I punched and I kicked, and I felt my blows crashing against solid flesh that began to crumble after a while. I kept hitting until my fists were covered with blood, until my breeches were torn, until the breath was raging in my lungs. And then I stopped I tot a use the flesh had already crumbled and was lying on the floor in a bloody, sodden heap. I stood back then and looked around me at Bruce and Rog. "Let's get them out of here," I said hoarsely. We dragged them to the front door and stuck them on the lift, setting the tabs for the first level. The lift dropped out of sight with its cargo, and we went back into the room. Deborah rushed over to me and said. "Van, you were wonderful." "Those rotten bastards," I said. I llid fie simply wasn't strong enough, so I reverted to the Rec terminology. "Those filthy..." "If they come back," Bruce said, "thcv'rc dead. Thev'rc dead. Van, dead." His hands were trembling as he spoke, and there was a smear of blood stretching from his temple to his jaw. A murmur of conversation sprang up around the room now, and someone put on a tape in an effort to relieve the strained atmosphere. "Can we wash up. Deb?" I asked. "Yes. Yes, of course. Come with she dropped Rog and Bruce off at the hall bathroom, and then led me to the private bathroom in her own bedroom. She sat on the bed while I washed, arid talked to me through the open bathroom door. I let water into the sink and then plunged my hands into it, watching it turn muddy with blood. "This makes me wonder," she said. "About what?" "About whether I'm doing the right thing or not." "I'm lost, Deb." I splashed water onto my face, feeling it sting the cuts there. "I want to have a baby, Van." "What!" I jerked upright and looked at her, my face and hands dripping water onto the floor. "Yes, I want to very much." "Why?" "Well...I'm just tired of...of senso's and...you know, all of it. I want something new." "Who's the lucky man?" I asked sarcastically, dipping into the water again. "Van, don't make me vomit. It won't be that way at all." "No?" "No." She smiled playfully. "There arc only three men I'd even consider that with, anyway. Even if I were a Rcc." "Who?" I asked. "Jamie Grew. Know him?" "No. Who else?" "Rog Brooks." "Oh." "What docs that mean?" "Nothing. But I'll bet he's the "Well, in a way." "Who's the third man?" "You." I snorted and rinsed off my face. "Well, honey, you're barking up the wrong three." "I'm only joking. I'll go to the clinic, of course." "Minm?" "Yes. In fact, I've already informed them. I'm enrolling in the next Inseminar." I snapped on the ultra-vi and stepped into the field, rubbing my hands as the rays dried me. "That's the next step above a Rcc," I said. "Next thing you know, you'll be mating in an alley." "Van, for God's sake! You say the goddanmdest things." "Well it's the truth." I shrugged. "Is this what vou wanted to talk to  me about?"  "Yes. I haven't told anyone yet, not even Rog. I wanted to hear what you thought of it." "Well, now you know." "And I'm going to do it anyway." "Go right ahead. Your womb, your tomb." I stepped out of the field and snapped off the ray. I looked at mv torn breeches. "I don't suppose you've an extra pair in the house." "No. Sorry." "Didn't expect you to." I tried to pull the tear together, gave it up as a sorry job, and said, "I wanted to talk to you, too, Deb." "What about?" "Money."  "What about money?" "I need a stone. Can you lend it to me?" "Are you in trouble?" "No." "Then why do you need that much moo?" "I need it." Deborah hesitated. "I might be able to scrape it together." "How soon?" "How soon do you need it?" "Immediately." "That gives me a lot of time," she said snidelv. "All right, six months. No later." "That's a little better. In six months, I should he pregnant." "Must we talk about that?" "No, of course not. I'll have the money for vou. Van. Is that better?" ' I grinned. "That's much better." Deborah rose, brushed a fleck of dirt from her breast and said, "Done. Shall we join the party?" My grin got bigger. I was thinking of the stone slic'd promised me within six months, and I was thinking of the way Hayden Thorpe and I would parlay that moo into a nice pile. Individual Sensory Productions. And all Deborah could think about was having a baby! V A ctually, the four Rcc crashers were one of the clearest omens, but vou never sec things in their true light until they're over and done with -- and then it's too late. Jo Houston called me the next day, shmtiy after my noon fix. His face was troubled, and his eves  # were wearv. For a moment, I thought lie'll gone without a fix, but then I noticed the empty vial on his desk. " hat is it. Jo?" I asked. "I'm having a lugged go, Van." "Spell it." "Your holdings. I can't get rid of them." I looked at his face hard to see if he was kidding. "What the hell are you talking about, Jo?" "The stuff. No buvers." "No buyers? Hop down, father, and jest me not! I'm in no mood for -- " "Bible stufl, Van. s'hclp me. I've been shagging since yesterday. The market's dim." "Then you haven't been shagging hard enough. W hat the hell's the matter with vou, Jo? The stuff I've got is the hottest you can get today." "Maybe." "Listen, stop cryptic lipping. Shoot ii to me straight." "All right. You Joined?" "Shoot, goddainnit!" Jo began ticking the points off on his lingers. Item A: three hundred shares Sappho Stereos. Dead ducks." "How so?" "No buvers. Hold it. Van. don't blowtop. I tried everywhere, and I mean everywhere. I couldn't even sell them for a fifty percent loss." "You mean you ofjrrtd that?" "As a last resort. Van, the market is tighter than a Ree's necktic." "More, father." "Item B: twenty-two shares Arbac Press. Dead ducks. I shopped all over town. No one's interested." "That's impossible! Arbac is one of the best paback outfits in the field. You sure this isn't a gag, Jo?" "I never kid where it concerns money," Jo said seriously. "All right. Read it." "Item C: fifty-seven shares Dale Cosmetics. I got rid of twenty. You know what you can do with the other thirty-seven." "VVhat'd you raise?" "One." "A thousand? For twenty shares of Dale? Holy Christ, Jo, arc you losing your marbles?" "I didn't say a thousand. I said 'one.' One hundred, Van. One clam. Count it." "One clam! Look, Jo -- " "I'm lucky I got that. You've got no idea what it's like, Van. So help me, I don't like it." "You don't like it? You don't like it? It's only my goddamned money you're throwing around, that's all. It's only -- " "Cool, Van." "Cool my big kccstcr! Listen, Jo, you're paid to handle mv afTairs. If I ever made a deal like that for one of my clients, I'd be hanged on Times Square the next day. What the hell do you think this is: Parthesi?" "Van, I tell you -- " "You tell me horsemanure! I'm telling you, goddam nit And you'd damn well better listen. I've got stock worth at least # gee. I want # gee, and a good man should be able to raise that. If you're not a good man, you're not the man for me. There are approximately eight thousand accountants in this city, Jo, and -- " "Easy, Van, easy. I'm -- " "Easy, nothing. I'll give you until tomorrow. That's Wednesday. If you can't produce by then, you can close out my account and go back to filing income tax returns at fifty cents a throw!" "That's not fair, Van -- " "It may not be fair, but it's the way it is. I want at least # gee by tomorrow. If you get that much, I'll give you 'till Saturday to get the rest. If you can't, goodbye, Jo; it's been, but it ain't no mo." "Van -- " I clicked ofT before he could protest, and then I went over to the bar and shot up a booster. When the buzzer on my desk sounded, I nearly tore off the switch answering. "Yes!" I shouted. "Ouch!" Lizbeth said. "What is it, Liz?" I answered harshly. Her voice was surprised. "I did something, Van?" "You did naught. You buzzing to be sociable or have you got something on your mind?" "Van... "Come on, Liz, I haven't got all day!" "Yes, sir." Her voice was shocked now, and a little hurt. "There's someone to see vou, sir." "I'm not in."' "She said it w'as important." "I'm still not in." "Sir, she -- " "Listen, Liz, do I have to send a diag with everything I say? I'm not in! That goes for this chick, and the President, and even Dino Bciazi. I'm out. I'm not in. Does that make sense?" "Yes, sir." "Fine, line. Pm glad I sjcak English." "Yes, sir." "Is dial all?" "Ye -- " "All right. Don't disturb me for the next hour or so." I clicked oil and began pat ing the rug. How the lu ll was a man supposed to get anything done when he was surrounded by idiots? Imagine Jo selling twenty shares of Dale for a clam! A ilam! And Incalled himself an accountant. A shoe shine boy could have got at least five, and -- The door behind me opened swiftly, and I turned with niy lists clenched as it slid shut again. "I thought I told you not to..." The girl standing there was not Lizbcth. hair pulled to one side of her neck, trailing down over one naked breast. Me breasts were firm and high, concentrically ringed in various hues. Her stomach was bare and flat, etched with a deep naval. Her skiit was shorter than a good many skirts I'd seen, and she wore six inch spikes with ankle straps. I stared at her for an instant. "Who the hell arc you?" I shouted. "Lois Sylvan. "Who?" "Lois Sylvan." "Do you know what doors are for, Miss Sylvan? They keep people out. I told my secretary I wasn't to be disturbed. I wasn't kidding. Now il vou'll swing your l.cestcr out of here. I'll be much obliged." "I thought you'd be interested," she said an lily. I looked her over again. "W hates er you're selling, Pm not interested." "We're even. I'm not selling." I looked at her again. "Am I supposed to know you or something? Pm not good at guessing games." "Lydia Silverstein," she said quickly. "Lvdia wh I closed my mouth # # and looked her over again. Yes. tinted hair was certainly hers, and tinlong legs. and...but... "Well. You've changed." "My name, too. Not legally yet. I've assumed it by common law, and I've a I read v got a shyst to bring it to court." "Good. So?" "I've bared my...I've taken ofT niy blouse, and I've shortened mv skirt. I tried morphine today. I did just wluit you said." "So?" "Well...#...I'm ready to begin." "Begin what?" "You said -- " "Miss Silverste in, or Sylvan, or whatcver-lhe-hell, this is not a Retconvcrtorium. I run a business, and I don't have to -- " "But you said -- " "I know what I said. I also told you to kick out your mate. Did vou do that?" Her eyes began to cloud, and her lower lip trembled a little. "I... I didn't have one." "Fine! You had nothing to lose then, did you? The fact remains that I can't play father-confessor to every Rcc who decides to chuck it all. Miss. I'm right now in the middle of something -- " She started to cry. Just like that. It had been such a long time since I'd seen any woman cry that I almost didn't believe it. "Hey!" I said. "Oh, shut up," she blubbered. "Well, look..." "Don't talk to me." she said between sobs. "Well, don't cry," I offered lamely. "Save that for the stcrcosoaps. Come on, now, Miss. Miss, you shouldn't..." "I did what you said," she blubbered. "I did just what you said. Now I'm here, and I feel so cheap and so...so...naked, and vou  # don't even...vou don't even..." I walked over to her and put my arm around her shoulder. "Look, Miss, please, don't cry. There's no need for that, really. Please, now, please." "I feel awful," she whimpered. "There, there, I'll help you. Don't worry. I said I'll help you, and I will." "You will?" "Of course I will. We can use good female scribes. I said I'd help, and I've never gone back on my word. I was just feeling sort of grumpy, that's all." "You'll really help me write?" she asked. She looked for a pocket, found none, and wiped her tears with the back of one hand. "Yes, I will," I said. "Yes, I -- " A thought hit me. Full-blown. Right out of the air. "Yes, by God," I said. "Yes, I will!" I thought of tiie twenty gee we were paying Bruce Alloway for his writing on the new show. And Hayden was looking to cut costs. I grinned amiably and asked, Miss Sylvan...Lois...how would you like to earn a cool live gee?" Her eyes opened wide, and her lashes batted frantically for a moment. "Five...five...?" "Five gee. Five thousand skins. All yours. All for your hot little hands. How about it?" She gulped hard. "For writing?" "What else?" I asked. For a moment, I thought she would faint. Instead, she gulped again, and her eyes were incredibly green and incredibly wet behind their thick lashes. She opened her mouth to answer, but when no words came, she simply nodded her head weakly. "Fine!" I shouted. "Terrific." I stabbed the button on my desk and Liz came on. "Sir?" "Liz, honey," I said, "I want you to call Hayden Thorpe for me." "Sir?" Her voice brightened. "I want you to call him, sweetness, and tell him I've got the two scribes he wanted. Tell him one of them is Bruce Alloway, and reel ofr Bruce's credits to hint. Mention the After Dark thing, Liz. That was really big." She sounded quite happv now. "Yes, Van." "And then tell him I've discovered a fabulous new female scribe. Tell him she's the greatest thing since transundics -- " "Van!" tin best cl. mined serile since Shakespeare, the best darned discovery since eorradon. Tell him she's starting at oner, and that I've had to go to five gee, hut that she's worth every penny. Tell him I'm clearing up the other details now. and that we'll be ready to roll on Sunday." "Yes, Van." "And tell him. Liz; toll him her name is..." I snapped my lingers, and the redhead fluttered her eyelashes. "Lydia," she said. "No, Lois. Lois Svlvan." "Lois Sylvan, Liz." "Lois Sylvan," Liz rcucated. "Remember that name, Liz. Remember it well. This little ladv is going to have that name in lights soon. Lois Sylvan. Magnificent. Make that call now, Liz, and double it." She clicked ofT, and I turned to the redhead. "Well, Miss Svlvan," I said. "This is the beginning. You're on your wav." Miss Sylvan didn't answer. Miss Sylvan was too busy bolding her breath and giving herself a great big healthy mental pinch. VI next day. "Hello. Van." He was beaming broadly, and good news was scrawlall over his face. "What's the snap, pap?" "I've got a buyer." "Good. How much did you  #I raise: "You sitting. Van?" "Win?" Jo grinned secretively. "How much did you want me to raise? Foi the lot. I mean." "You know how much. Stop cutciimousiiig." "You wanted # gee, light?" "'I hat's light, Jo. Come on." "I got a stone and two." "What?" "A stone and # gee, that's right. And I managed to buy back that twenty shares of Dale and throw that into the package, too. Who's tin hottest accountant in town, bov?"  # "A stone and two! fo, bow'd you doit?" Jo smiled obliquely. "Trade Secrets, lad." "Well, who's the buyer?" w # "An outfit called Ball Associates." I thought this over for a moment. will never make good, Jo. He hasn't got a  cut to his "No. not Don Ball. This is a new outfit. I cheeked tin-in thoroughly. Van. They've got more moo than God." "You sure?" "Positive. I saw their hooks. They're loaded. Van." "A corporation?" "Yes." "Who's behind it?" "I couldn't find out. Listen, their money is good. What the hell arc you worried about ?" "I just don't like doing business with shadows. Who do I sue if tin check hops?" "It won't hop. I'll have it certified." "Minium." "What do you say, Van? This is damned good money. You said yourself you only expected to realize -- " "And I was shooting high," I said, "just to get you to push." "bo there. A stone and two is fabulous. Shall I close it?" "Ball Associates, huh?" "Ball Associates." "Okay, Jo, close it. I want the cheek by seventeen tonight, and i citified. I'll deposit it Inst thing in the morning. No delivery until I hear from the bank." "Even with a certified check?" Jo protested. "I'm cautious, father." "Cautious? Father, you're paralyzed!" "Close the deal, Jo. And good work." "Thanks," he said drily. "You'll have the check by seventeen. One stone and two. Deal?" "Deal." "Real. See you, Van." "Herr." "Scrambler twelve." "Grooved." I heard the scrambler clicking as Hayden set it. I punched my own labs, waited for the picture to clear, and said, "Okav, father." "What?" "I'm on my wav to the office. I just came from die bank." "And?" "Everything's fine. We've got a stone and two to play with. We can start rolling now, father!" N O, NO, no, no, nononononono!" I shouted. I threw the pencil onto the floor and walked to the bar. "You still haven't got it! You're still turning out Rce garbage. Goddamnit, Lu, you're back in the Middle Ages! You're giving me Charles Dickens!" "Dickens wasn't in the Middle Ages," Lois said coldly. "All right, then you're giv ing me Spenser." "He wasn't -- " "I don't give a damn! You're not giving me what I want. Is that clear?" "I don't think you know what you want," Lois said. She sat in a chair with her long legs crossed, the skin opened over her thighs. She wore no stockings, but a deep green garter set with a rhinestone circled the flesh of one leg. Her breasts were done in two golden sunbursts, and the echo of a small burst shaded her navel. "I know what I need," I said. I opened in) kit and selected a vial. "You're enough to make a man mix. I'll tell you that much." I popped oil, closed my eyes for a moment, and asked, "You had yours?" "This morning," she said. There was anger on her face. Her brows were pulled together tightly, and she ranied her lower lip in a pout. "Have another," I said. "No, thank you." "What's the matter?" "Nothing." I walked to the desk and slapped the back of my hand onto her script. "You think this is good, is that it? You think this is deathless prose. You think She stood up suddenly, and her breasts bobbed with liei sudden furv. "Yes. it you must know, think it's good. I think it's better than am of the crap "Kccsc," I eon ee led. " -- any of the nap Bluer is turning out. In fat t. I think it's too good for "I guess ou don't like the smell ol that five gee." "I think it's too good for..." Site paused. She let out an exasperated breath. Then she began pacing the Hoot. "It is good," she said. "It stinks," I told her. "It's just what you and Hayden said you wanted." "It stinks." "it's the Inst I can do." "You'll have to do better." "I can't!" she fairly screamed. "You ran." "I can't, can't can't. I've had enough. I can't take any more. Do it this way, do it that way. Change this, change that. How can a person w rite that wav? I low can anyone -- " "Shut up, I.ois." " -- can anyone con...ccn..." Her voice dropped to a whisper. She sucked in a deep hi rath. passed a hand over the side of her face, and asked, "All right, how do wc fix it?" "That's my girl." "Never mind the fccsc. How do we fix it?" "Listen to this: Darling, kiss me. Take me in your arms." "What's wrong with it? "It's not loaded. We want something like: Dotting. put your mouth on mine. ( ; my lifn ;nlh yours. Crush me in y mn anils. Tress me againt your hotly ami let me -- " "I get it." she said dully. She took another deep breath. "Have you any morph. Van?" "I'm Mister Morph himself, honey." Lois smiled, but her eyes were dull. IX vvay said. "Then we'll make it fit." Bruce shook his head. We were alone in my oilier, and the city gleamed like a broad, jeweled tiara outside mv window. The light over my desk cast a golden circle on the scripts scattered over the polished top. "It's no go. Van. "Whv not?" "Lois." "What's the matter with her?" "Nothing that talent wouldn't fix." "She's not that bad.' "Van, she's terrible. She's got Rec sentiments as long as my arm. And on top of that, she can't write." "You weren't so damned hot when I stumbled across you, cither." "No. but I at least had the inclination. She's got nothing. Sure, she tries, but that isn't i nougli. We'll never mate her words and mine, Van. Never." "You're w rong. Bruce. We damn well better mate them." "I tell you she's no good. Zero." "Lower your voice. She'll be here any sec." Bruce shook his head again. "Why arc you keeping her. Van? You're not going Rec, arc you?" "Friend or no friend," I told him, "I can still punch you in the mouth." "All right, I'm sorry. Suppose tell me why?" "I'm paying her five gee. You're getting twenty. Is that good enough?" Bruce spread his hands wide. "The root of all. Sure, good enough. That means I'll have to work hard enough to earn fifty, while she ambles along earning about three clams worth. That sounds really fai -- " A tapping sounded on the outer door, and I touched the lock release on my desk. I heard the door slide open, heard the hurried click of high heels through the reception room. The door to my office slid wide then, and Lois came into the room. She was out of breath, and she carried a thick script under her arm. "Am I late?" "A little. Come on over." She walked to the desk and dumped the script under the lamp. "There it is, father. My sweat and blood. Now all we have to do is match it with Bruce's." Bruce sighed painfully. "Yes," he he said. "That's all we have to do." X big chair under the ccilamp. The shooting script was open in his lap, and his brow was furrowed in concentration. Lois, Bruce, and I sat opposite him, side by side, on the couch. The room was quiet. Outside, the traffic on the various levels raised a din that tried valiantly to penetrate his muted office. I had never seen a corradonict smoke before. I wasn't even sure that Hayden was smoking. I don't think he even knew he had that cigar in his mouth. But great billows of smoke rose from his mouth, pulled out over his head, smothered him and the chair and the script. He could have acted the part of a volcano in an adventure stereo with no extra effort. He turned a page, blew out another stream of smoke. The rustic of the paper made a loud, scratching sound in the silence of the room. Hayden made a noise that sounded like a cross between a burp and a grunt. He turned another page. The electric clock on the wall hummed pleasantly, throwing seconds, minutes, hours into the room. The cloud of smoke thickened, and Hayden kept turning pages, one after the other, grunting occasionally, burping frequently. He leaned back at last, closed the script. On the couch, I felt Bruce lean forward expectantly. "Well..." Hayden ' said. He studied the end of his cigar, then dropped it into the disposotray. Lois gripped my hand tightly, and I glanced down at it and then over to Havden's face.  He drew a heavy breath, and I felt Lois tense. "It's terrific," he said mildly. "We can start shooting at once." XI office two days later. At first. I couldn't believe inv cars. 'H'ho?" I ask-d Lizbcth. "Dino Bclazi, Van.' "The Ree? The critic:? The... the Rec?" "The same." "Well. MY. Give me ten minutes, then show him in." I cleared oil my d "k, leaving the toj) as glistening as a mountain lake. Then I walked around the office and straightened the zincs and the pabaeks. I closed the top of the bar, straightened a stcreopic on the wall and tilted the blinds so that the sun backlighted me. I went to the closet, rubbed some aleojcl on, combed my hair, and scrutinized mvself in the door mirror. I pulled mv breeches higher, saw that my lxots carried a high polish, sucked in my stomach, and then walked to mv desk. I tilted mv head #  so that the sunlight hit my profile. I waited for Dino Bclazi. The door slid open, and I heard his heavy shoes on my rug. I glanced through the blinds for a few seconds, and then turned casually. Bclazi had stopped in the center of the room. Ih' was not at all what I had pictured. He was a small man with a carefully trimmed white board. He wore a severely tailored black suit. His collar was tight, his tie thin. His shoes were black and highly polished. His straight nose sliced down the middle of his face like a cleaver. His lips were pursed beneath that nose, carefully concealing his teeth. His eyes could tell stories, but they  ic short ol main ial .it the iimmi nt. "Mr. Ilclai." I said cordially. "I'm honored." Bclazi took a ijuick slop forward, then stopped with his heels together, his homhurg clenched in Ixith hands, his i.me looped over his right arm. "I shall make my visit brief and to the jxiint. Mr. Branoski," he said. His voice was deep, but his speech was clipped. "Mr. Brant," I corrected him. Bclazi smiled mirthlessly. "If you prefer." "I prefer." "I have compiled a list of alleged literary agents who arc today soliciting the majority of smut on the market. You, unfortunately, are one of the chief purveyors. I have been systematically eliminating these men, starting at the top and working my way to the Ixittom." "Eliminating?" "Through visits. I've come to ask something of you, Mr. Branos...Mr. Brant." "And what's that?" "May I sit down?" "Please do." "Thank you." Bclazi moved to the chair oppoiste my desk, lie sat down, carefully raising his trousers to protect their crease. He put his homburg on one arm of the chair, leaned forward and rested both hands on the head of his cane. "Now, then. I've come to ask that vou discontinue the submission of manuscripts to: (a) the magazines, (b) the paperbacks, (c) the stereoscopic, the three dimensional, and the sensory mediums." "You missed one." I said. "Did I indeed?" "Yes. We're still submitting material to the live shows." Belazi coughed politely. "We shall eliminate the legitimate theatre from our discussion. I rather imagine you are not selling them a great deal of material." I smiled. "In other words, vou'd like me to go out of business, is that it?" "I did not suggest that." "But your statement was heavily loaded with that implication, I would say. Wouldn't you?" "I would prefer not to comment on that. Do you agree to my proposal?" "Don't be popped, father." "Sir?" "Your proposal is absurd. You're asking me to slit my own throat." "Suicide is sometimes a more pleasant prospect than execution." "Don't tickle me, Belazi. The Vikes are firmly rooted It'll take more than a threat from vou to kick us out." "I know that. We possess the means to destroy you anil your ilk, Mr. Brant. Believe me, we are fully prepared." "How? With bad reviews? Every time you razor something, we sell father. The people are wise." "Are they?" "They arc. They are that. Finally, after all these years, they're wise. Oh so wise, father. They know just what they want, and we're giving it to them." "But is it what they want?" "I've no time for philo. Bilazi. And I don't want to chop psych with vou. either. You know what they want as well as I do." Belazi pursed his lips and said nothing. His hands were firm on the head of his cans... used to be the other way around, Belazi. The little man was the slob, wallowing in filth, breeding kids lie didn't want, dreaming o adventures be never had and ncvri would have. The paperbacks took hold then, and the little, man began to wake up. He recognized convention for what it really was: J a petty disguise of polite society, a subterfuge designed to keep the little man's feet firmly on the ground, to keep his head from out ol the clouds." "I'm reallv not terrible interested in -- " "And at the same time, the body magicians were at work, 'Wear a Juno bra aiul you won't be flal lu sted.' 'Use Vitagro on your hair, and you'll be dazzlin".' 'Don't smell -- use Sosoap' While the paperbacks peddled vicarious adventure, the advertising industry emphasized i lothes, cosmetics, luxuries the little man could never afford, trips to Bermuda, beauty aids, dreams. And sex reared its lovely breast. The paperbacks featured busty broads on their covers in full color, a vicarious thrill for a quarter, the thin part of a dollar. Television joined the parade, for free this time, and il you couldn't sec a chick's navel on Channel #, you switched to #. The movies clung to their stupid censorship rulings until they realized they were losing out in the big race. They relaxed then, and the results were amazing. Three-dimensional processes took hold, giving more reality to the vicarious pleasure. And the people liked it. The people loved it. The people -- " "All of which -- " "All of which illustrates a point. Joe Sucker began to understand an important truth. It had been (here all along, starting maybe with the now-defunct comic books, working its way up through pulp magazines, through the now-extinct hard cover novels, into the pabacks, into television, the movies, the stereos, the senso's. Now he knew. The make-believe was better than the reality! The girl's behind wiggling on the motion picture screen was a hundred times better and a thousand times more effective than his own wife's fat pratt in the shabby, dubious comfort of his own home. The colorful characters of the dream world, the people with names like Drew and Allison and Mark and Cynthia, were having a hell of a lot more fun than the ljple man was. In real life, the pure maiden was the acme of perfection. In the dream world, if a chick didn't hop into bed after five minutes of casual conversation she was a Mongolit. 'Hey!' Joe Sucker yelled, 'whore have I been all my life?' He woke up, and the waking was a tremendously powerful thing." "The awakening was the doom of society." "No, Mr. Bclazi. It put the little man right where he'd always wanted to be. He changed his name from Joe Sucker to Joel Standish. He forgot about the disappointing realities all around him and concentrated on the purely vicarious aspect of living. He began to enjoy himself for the first time because now his entire world was a makebelieve one. He conveniently disposed of the reality, which no longer served any concrete purpose in his life. He was a sucker reborn, of other suckers, and began having a hell of a good time. Drugs, which had already taken a strong illegal foothold, became as common as cigarettes. Eventually, as you know, they became legal, which was a damned smart move. Marriage was abandoned ns the shoddy thing it was, the invention of some fools who wanted to indulge but conceal what is basically a disgusting animal impulse. Archnirism was replaced by new thoughts, new language, new dreams. Society was revitalized. It still is revitalized. It still is -- " "Decadent! It is decadent!" Iielazi shouted. "Only for a Realist. For the Vike, there is pure escape. It does things better for him, with no strain and no pain. Three cheers for it, I say."  Bclazi's face seemed rcadv to erupt. It turned a deep red, and then modulated the chromatic scale until it reached its normal shade again. "I take it you will continue with your submissions." "I will." Bclazi rose stiffly. "Thank you for the history lesson, Mr. Branoski. I appreciated it." He turned brusquely and started for the door, stopping halfway across the carpet. "You will remember that you were warned." "Sure, I'll remember." "We will do everything in our power to crush you, Mr. Branoski. You and the others. The Vicarious Movement is finished, believe me." I didn't answer. I simplygrinned. Belazi turned on his heel and walked out. way. You can have all the signs, you can see them every day, but you won't realize what they mean until someone tells you you've got six months to live. I was up to my ears in production details. The senso was going to cost a lot more than we'd figured, even cutting it to the bone. Hayden insisted on complete secrecy, which meant no outdoor shooting, no borrowing of sets, no established players who would spread the word around. It meant that we had to hire a studio large enough to hold all the sets wc needed for the show. We had to get additional equipment, and wc had to get it the hard way, laying out cold cash for purchased items rather than renting the stufT. And we had to search for actors and actresses without advertising, without stirring up any outside interest. We had to get cameramen, musicians, audio and olefactory technicians, a guy to write the score and another to direct it. And most expensive were the men Hayden had trained in the new individual sensory techniques. It was a headache, but its possibilities looked even bigger to me once I got wrapped up in it And at the same time, I tried to run the agency, taking harassed calls from scribes and eds, reading tons of manuscripts, haggling over prices, marketing the material we had on hand. I hired two new eds, adding an extra strain to my budget. I lxgan to lean on Liz more and more heavily, delegating much of the marketing to her. My mind was almost always occupied with thoughts of the show, with problems that had come up, but I kept a small corner of my thinking capacity open and reserved for the agency, and I used that when Liz gave me daily reports. "Three scripts back from Preen Publishers," she said. "What's wrong?" "Nothing. They said they weren't right." "That's funny. Who were the scribes?" "Mercer, Peer, Fitch." "They've sold to Preen." "I know." "Mm. What else?" "A notice from Agon Senso. New ownership." "What else?" "Pile of stuff back from Stereo One. Not their type, they said." "Not their type? It's the same stuff we've been sending them all along," I complained. Liz shrugged. "You want me to remarket this stuff?" "Yes. But first call Andrews at Stereo One. Ask him what the hell he means by not their type. Tell him -- " "He's not there any more, Van." "Since when?" "Yesterday. A new fellow's taken over. I forget his name." I nodded disgustedly. "That explains it. A new cd, a new batch of pet agents and scribes. Well, scroom. There are lots of other markets." "Hundreds," Liz agreed. "What brews tonight, Van?" "Why?" "Got a party, thought you might like to take my arm." "Not tonight, hon." "Business?" "Business," I said Liz shrugged. "It'll probably be a dull glom anyway." portion of the shooting script. Camera #-# Betty Face Camera #-# Stf.ro Betty brsts Olefact Same, add: Musk woman Lt perspir Cloth Carl: I know! you. I want to until -- Camera #-# Snap cu Betty mouth Camera #-# Over Same Olefaet Cut ai l but Roses, add Fnt t ooth pst #-# Betty: No! Car Special Tweed scratch Sticky blood I leant to hurt keep hurting you Camera #-# Under Same Camera #-# Same as Camera #-# Special None ! Carl! Camera #-# Filter-shot Carl arms Olefact Perfume #a Tobacco # Roses Camera #-# CU Carl nose Special Wind Faint rain Betty: Don't! Carl, please, please. You're hurting me! Camera #-# CU Carl fingers Camera #-# Superimp Rose bush Camera #-# Grid shot Betty flesh Arm Camera #-# Carl fingers I looked at it and scratched my head. It had certainly changed from the simple arrangement of dialogue Bruce and Lois had written. "Do you see now why it's going to cost us so much?" he asked. I nodded dumbly. "I see." and I was pulled away from the office even more than usual. It was a tough grind for me, but Hayden stayed with us all every inch of the way. There were a studio, and our limited budget meant that everyone had to pitch in. And that meant that when I got home each night, I was ready to sleep through the next week. Instead, I got up each morning at six, rushed to the office to open the mail and sort it, and then waited for Liz to come in with a rundown of the previous activities. It was on one of these mornings, while waiting for Liz, that I happened to cheek the stock room. What I found surprised me. Lizbcth pranced in at nine, her breasts sparkling with an iridescent glow'. Her skirt was the most daring thing I'd ever seen in an office, consisting of a single thin strip that hung over her buttocks. Her underwear was transparent, and fully exposed. "That's going a little far, isn't it?" I asked. She glanced at her near-nudity, lifted her eyes. She shrugged. "Kicks, father." "Kicks? What the hell..." "Look, Van," she snapped. "Don't tell me how to dress." "I don't give a damn what you wear on your own time. In this office, though, don't look as if you're ready to crawl into some goddamn Rcc's nest." "You're insulting!" "And so's that skirt!" "All right!" she shouted. "Would you like me to go home and change it?" "No. But there are a few things I'd like to know." "Like what?" "Like where our supply of drugs went to? Did you forget to reorder, or has someone been using it for private parties?" "Neither. Swift's is out." "Out of drugs? Are you -- " "Out of drugs, yes." "Then w hy didn't you get it elsewhere?" "I tried. There seems to be a scarcity of the stufT." "Of drugs?" I asked incredulously. ' Yes, ye s, of thugs. Don't you understand when I -- " "What the lu ll's wrong with you, Liz?" "Nothing. I haven't had a fix yet, that's all." "Well, go take one then, and we'll talk business when you've popped." "There's none in the office. You saw that yourself." I was beginning to get a little exasperated. "Then why didn't you pop before you left your house?" "Because I'm all out, too, and I couldn't get any." "I've got plenty at my place," I said. "Send one of the kids when they come in." "Opainc?" she asked, an eager light in her eyes. "Morph, mostly. A guest supply of a few others. Have you tried all the drug outfits?" "Yes, all of them." "The private sellers?" "All of them." "Probably a small shortage. Maybe a shipment got fouled. Anyway, I want to ask you about the marketing setup. We usually get checks from Vizco and Young  Co. on Thursdays. There were none in this morning's mail. Any idea wdiat's wrong?" "Yes. They've both been taken over by a new outfit." "Oh. What's the name of the new owner?" Lizbeth sucked in her breath. "Ball Associates," she said. XV week. She was hurrying to catch a pneumotube, and she almost knocked me over. 'Hey!" I said, "what's the rush?" She looked up at me for a moment, and then said, "Van! How good." She grasped my hand firmly, squeezed it hard. "It's awfully nice to sec you. What are you doing? Where have you been keeping yourself?" "Well, I've been pretty busy," I said. She'd changed a great deal. She wore her hair long, curling about her neck. There were no contacts on her eyes, and I noticed for the first time that their original color was a somewhat muddy brown. She'd put on weight, of course, so I assumed her trips to the Inseminary had flben successful. She wore a breast sheath that fullv covered her bosom, and her skirt ended just above the knees, much longer than anything I'd ever seen on her. She wore fiats, but I attributed that to her condition. "I have, too," she said. Her eyes seemed to sparkle, making me forget the drabness of their color for a moment. This hardly seemed like the same exciting, vivacious Deborah I'd known. And yet, there was something new about her that hadn't been there before, either. A glow, almost. She glanced at her wrist rhron and said, "I must run. Van. Are you going uptown?" "Yes, I am." "Good. Come along." We caught a dual car, sitting side by side as the buildings sped by in a blur outside. We talked of little things, neither of us mentioning the change in her. Finally, I asked, "Have you been having trouble getting fixed, Deb?" She smiled tolerantly. "I'm off it, Van. I'm having a baby, you know. They don't mix well." "Oh. Yes, of course. The Inseminar was a success, then?" She hesitated a moment before answering. "Well... not exactly." I didn't get her meaning at first. When it hit me, I stared at her in surprise. A feeling of revulsion gripped me, and I almost wanted to leap out of the car. "I thought you knew," Deborah said softly. "Rog Brooks and I w'erc married four months ago." "Married !" Deborah turned away from me and gazed steadily through the window of the car. "A person gets tired of parties," she said after a while. I didn't answer her. all corns, pri and pub. It came after a week in which drugs had dwindled down to a mere trickle. I was at home, getting ready for bed. I snapped on the com, scanning the messages as they taped out of the machine. The report said: I tore the tape ofT and held it in trembling hands. This was impossible. This was utterly fantastic. I rushed over to the phone, dialed Hayden Thorpe's number, let it ring six times before I gave up. I tried Bruce next, and when I got no answer there, I called Clark Talbot in desperation. He didn't look good. He didn't look good at all. He blinked his eves at the screen, wet his lips with his tongue. "That you. Van?" he asked. "Yes, Clark. Did you see the latest on the com?" "About the narcotics?" "Yes." "They've been running that every ten minutes. Where you been fooling, father?" "Is it straight goods?" "Sure, it must be. It's on the public communicators, too. You can't get any bum dope on those." "Well, Jesus, what the hell are we going to do? What docs it all mean? I thought we had a Vike majority in Congress." "Majorities don't mean beans, Van. You spread a little moo around in the right places, and majorities become minorities overnight. Don't you know politics?" "But... I mean... well, where are we going to get our stufT?" Clark gave a short, dry laugh that sounded more like a cackle. "Jest me not, father," he said. "I've been cool for the past nine days. I couldn't raise a drop of hcrrocokc no matter how hard I tried. So this makes it illegal, so what? If you can't get it, what difference docs it make if somebody says you're not allowed to get it? Father, I've been down, really." "Nine days!" I said, incredulity in my voice. "Cooler and cooler, and now I'm almost cold. It was rough tough stuff, Van. I thought I was done a few days ago. I was ready to make out a will." "What about now? I mean... " "Now?" Clark asked. "Now?" I looked into his eyes. They were vacuous and lonely. Something of a smile played on his lips and then died there. "No mo, Van. Gone. From my body, anyway. In my mind... in my mind..." He sighed deeply, then changed the subject abruptly. "Who's Ball Associates?" "What?" I asked, still a little dazed. "Ball Associates. I understand they've cornered half the god-damn publishing field. Have you sold anything of mine lately?" "Well, Clark, Triple Press is now owned by -- " "I know. Ball. What about it?" "Change of policy. You know how these tilings work. New owner, new -- " "Yeah," Clark said drily. "Well, without a habit, all I have to worry about is food. Think you can scrape enough for that?" I managed to laugh weaklv. "Hell, Clark, stop talking like a -- " "Ree?" he asked. He began laughing then, continued laughing until I snapped off. I walked to my home bar, checked the vials there. I still had a fair supply even though this past week had dented it badly. My hands were trembling as I pulled the lid shut. I felt like talking to someone, anyone. I thought of Hayden, realized he was out. The same applied to Bruce. I picked up the com report and looked at it again, and then I dressed slowly and left the apartment. stopped on the street levels. The robot policemen had their hands full as small jet cars piled up one behind the other, their horns blaring shrilly. Everyone seemed to be in the streets. There was swearing and shouting and cursing and singing and drunken revelry. The Ree's commanded the night, and they reeled about everywhere, proclaiming their major victory to the neon skies. Every Vike I passed stared at me dejectedly, sharing silently the blow of our defeat. There was the solemn air of a funeral procession mixed with the blatant enthusiasm of a wedding feast. The streets were a complexity of contrasts, but the celebrants seemed to outweigh the mourners -- if by lung power alone. I lurched along the walk, shouldering Ree's aside, biting my lip, wondering how this had happened, wondering how it had all come about. I kept walking, unseeing almost, and I found myself at my office. I took the lift up, pressed my key into the lock, and entered. A light was burning, and I cursed Liz' inefficiency until I opened the door to my private office and found her sitting at the desk. Her face was drawn in the light of the overhead lamp, her features haggard. "It's all over," she said. "Don't be silly. Just because -- " "Not only the drugs," she protested. "Everything! Look at this." She held out a white sheet of paper, and I looked at it incredulously. It told me that Ball Associates now owned a majority of the stock throughout the publishing and entertainment fields, and that editorial requirements would be changed abruptly in the near future. I nodded my head vaguely. "We should have seen this coming, Liz. We should have -- " "We didn't," she said blankly. "It still doesn't mean the end. We can still submit material. We can -- " "Look at the signature," she said dully. "At the bottom of the page." I looked. It was signed: Dino Belazi, President. "No!" I shouted involuntarily. "This can't -- " I stopped myself. It could, and it had. I knew then what Bclazi's weapon had been. Money. Money to buy out the industry, and money to pay off the lobbies. Money, the Vikes' own weapon, and in the hands of the Ree's. How many stupid Ree's had contributed to Bclazi's death fund? How many grubby peasants had scraped up their last dollar for the cause of destroying the Vikc Movement? It made me a little ill. I crumpled the paper into a ball and dropped it on the floor. I wheeled then and ran from the room, leaving Liz at the desk. I ran into the streets, into the mayhem again, shoving, pushing, fighting my way uptown, fighting the blares of the horns, the sharp laughter, the voices high in song, the giggling, the roaring, the endless procession of jubilant Ree's and despondent Vikes, the clatter and the clash, the clamor and the incessant din -- fighting all the way. And then I got where I was going, and I closed the door behind me, cutting myself of! from the noise outside. I took the lift up, walked briskly down the hall and pressed the buzzer. A series of chimes rang within the apartment, and then the door panel slid open and I showed my face to the mirrored side of the seethru. The door slid back, and Lois stood there, ready for bed, her red hair fluffed behind her, her body sheathed in thin pajamas. "Van," she said. There was something of desperation in her voice, and something of expectancy -- as if she thought I'd have the solution to the entire problem. I went inside and walked quickly to the window, looking down at the stood beside me, and I felt the warmth of her body, smelled the faint aroma of her perfume. "It's bad," I said. "This new law... and they've got control of the  field. Ball Associates -- Dino Belazi. We'll never sell them another Vike script as long as -- " "And the show?" Lois cut in. "After all this work, all the money put into it? Will that... die, too?" I thought of the show. Individual Sensory Productions. Something new, something spectacular. Something as potent as a shot of morph. Maybe... maybe... My mouth was grim when I answered. "No, Lois, the show won't die. Wc'rc not licked yet." She moved closer to me, and we kept watching the frantic crowd in the street until the pale beginnings of dawn chased the revelers to their homes and their beds. the next day. I didn't go there to beg or plead. I went there to tell him what I was going to do. I went there to spit in his gloating face. He wasn't gloating, though. He was sitting seriously behind his severe desk. His hair was slightly disarrayed, and he stroked his beard with forced concentration. "All right," I said, "you've got it all now. Right in the palm of your fat Realist fist. But we're not through, Bclazi. I came to tell you that you'd better enjoy yourself while you can." "Your attitude, Mr. Branoski "Mr. Brant, goddamnit! And don't forget it!" "Your attitude, Mr. Brant is not a sound one. It is, rather -- " "Just listen to this, Bclazi. I've got something that's bigger than anything that's ever tome along. I'm producing it myself, so I don't need any big company to bother with. In other words, I don't need Ball Associates. I'm producing myself, with my own money, and I'll distribute myself -- and when this hits the market, you can take your rejuvenated Ree society and stick it right up your nose. Just remember that, Belazi. Remember it, and enjoy yourself because you've got one foot in the grave and the other on a grapeskin." Belazi's face became a little sad. "I had hoped we could get together. I had hoped..." He shrugged. "Together? Ree's and Vikes? Hah!" I looked at him contemptuously. "You mean you'd hoped my writers would turn out the Ree feese you're dying to put on the market again. Well they won't, Bclazi. They won't because what I've got is going to take all the starch out of your little coup. You're going to be right back where you started. Only this time, we're going to be more careful. We're going to watch you this time, Belazi, and there'll be no mistakes." "Do what you must do," he said softly. "I'll do it, all right. I just wanted you to know. So that you won't sit up here and gloat all day. I wanted you to worry a little, Belazi. I wanted you to know that yojir happiness is short-lived. I'll leave now, but you'll be hearing from me." I turned and headed for the door. Behind me, Belazi said, "Good luck, Brarroski." She was nowhere to be found. I got Hayden and Bruce, and together we began scouring the city, anxious to find her because the stone she'd promised us would be enough to put the show over and smash the new Ree uprising. I still had some drugs left, and so I didn't feel the new law as much as Clark apparently had. But they wouldn't last forever, and we had to work fast. We had to start a bally that would generate enough Vike interest to start a countermovement. We had to do something to blast through the miasma of defeat that had settled over the city like a plague of locusts. We had to announce the new senso fast. It took me five days to find her, and when I did, she was working hard, her hair trailing over one eye, her face sweated. She was very tired, and her pregnancy seemed to show more now than it had the last time I'd seen her. She was wearing a nurse's frock, which was in perfect keeping with her surroundings because she was in a clinic. "Deborah," I said, "I've come for the money." She didn't stop working. She was banking plasma row on row', turning to pick up the jars, then stacking them ncatlv on the shelf. "The what. Van?" "The monev. The stone you promised me. Remember? That night at your party? When you told me -- " "Oh. Yes. Yes, I remember now." There was an uncomfortable silence. She put another jar on the shelf and it clinked solidly against the one beneath it. "Well? Can I have it?" Deborah didn't answer. "I said -- " "I heard you. Van." "Well?" "No." "No? What do you mean, no? You promised me. Deb. I went ahead with plans because I was counting on that moo. Honey, if ever you wanted to help someone, this is -- " "It's not a question of wanting to. Van. Believe me, I do want to. I simply haven't got that much money." "How much do you have?" "Two thousand at the most. And... and we'll need that, too." "But for Christ's sake," I said, almost wanting to weep, "what did vou do with all your monev? Where -- " "The clinic," she said. "It's Rog's, you know. We... we're going to be needed. Van." "Deb," I said. "Deb, Deb." "I would help you if I could, believe me. But you can't imagine what this abrupt change is doing to people. Rog has his hands full already. and there'll be more. It's S  going to take work, Van. bard work. Rehabilitating the addicts, and then rehabilitating the sick minds." "What? I'm sorry. Deb. What did vou sav?"   "We've got to find a meeting ground, don't you see. Van? That's the hardest job ahead, and that's where every psych is going to he valuable. A meeting ground, somewhere in the middle." "What do you mean? Somewhere in the middle of what?" "The middle of Vike and Rcc. Neither is healthy, Van -- and I think both factions realize it." "Realize it?" I was suddenly angry. "Sure," I said, "start talking like a goddamn smug Rec tramp. Build a cozy clinic for your shackmatc and then start spouting pretty phrases. Well, you don't know what the hell you're talking about. You think this Rcc business is going to last? You think the people are going to turn back to all that fecse? We've been Vike for more than ten years now. We'll never go back to Rcc " "You're right," Deborah said, "but only because the Rcc attitude is a sick one, too. As sick as the Vike. And Ball Associates -- which was the Rre's weapon -- is a virtual monopoly, and any such monopoly of art and entertainment is bad. Van. Van, we've got to wed the two." Her eves burned with a fierce intensity, and she put her hand on my arm. "We ve got to bring them together. We've got to make a happy whole out of two diseased parts." She paused and turned her head away. "It's going to get worse. Van. Much worse. This is only the beginning. And then someone will have to pick up the pieces. Rog is helping, and so am I. But we've all got to." She paused again. "You see, we have no choice. It's cither that... or the end of everything we know." Her voice had got very low. She looked op at me, and her fingers tightened on my arm. "Do you understand, Van?" I stared at her for a few moments, and then I gently took her hand from my arm. "Goodbye, Deborah," I said. And then I left her. The drug ruling was strictly enforced, and it was impossible to get as much as a stick of benzejuana anywhere. I was sick. I was sicker than I'd ever been in my life. For the next month, I stayed locked in my room, my body the only thing that concerned me. The coins reported new suicides daily, new mental crackdowns. And everywhere around me, the picture was changing. Vike entertainment was slowly and deliberately being suffocated. The Ree's were having a field day, and Dino Belazi must have been riding on a big cloud. Lois called often. Her habit had been a short one, and an easy one to shuck. My habit had come from years of use, and it left my body reluctantly, fighting for every inch of control it lost. I'd click on whenever she called, and then lay back while she spoke. I very rarely answered her. I just listened, nodding now and then, thinking of my own private hell and envying the easy battle she had won. Arid then it was all over. I could cat in the morning without spitting it up again before noon. My appetite began to return and I started to think of other things besides the constant physical turmoil that had hi-ld me for so many weeks. I did a lot of thinking. Some of it surprised me. But chiefly, I thought of the new senso -- and of the money we needed. I tried to sell the agency. It was all I had left, and I figured we could still save the show, still stage something big enough to knock the Rcc's on their arses. But people know when you're pedding a corpse. My stable consisted of Vike scribes. There was no market for Vike stufT now. I got laughed at in a good many places, and actually tossed out of one place. In the end, I was forced to close the office and cut the scribes loose. I moved to a cheaper apartment, and I tried to sell the furnishings. But the furnishings were of Vike design, and Vike had become synonymous with bubonic plague. I started to look around me then. I still had some money, and it wasn't neccssarv for me to hunt  work immediately. I took long walks, and I watched the results of the new scheme of things. Summer was giving way to autumn, and brisk w-inds moved in as quickly as the Ree upsurgcncc had. I walked the streets, and I watched the people, Ree and Vike, and I thought. There was the smell of winter in the air. The sky had turned cast iron, and dying leaves rasped along die street levels, crushed beneath the hurrying boots of passersby. The air was crisp, with the tang of a ripe apple. It caressed the flesh with tingling fingers, left my face raw and my body invigorated. I walked and I watched and I listened. And I saw the broken pieces Drborah had mentioned, and I saw the people who were painstakingly picking up those pieces, trying to fit them together into a new pattern. I thought often of the new senso and Ball Associates and Dino Belazi. while. I hadn't seen her or talked to her for some time now, but I wasn't surprised to see her looking the way she'd looked that first day in my office, long long ago, when her name had been Lydia Silverstein and her habits had been somewhere between Rec and Vike. It was good to see her like that. She was fully clothed, and somehow that made her more attractive. She was happy to see me. She took me into her living room, and we sat before a blazing fire in the hearth, mocking the cold air outside the plexoid windows. Neither of us said anything for a long while. And then, finally, with my eyes on the crackling flames and my hand clenched in front of me, I said, "It's all over, Lois. All of it." She didn't answer. "The Vikes arc dead," I went on. "There's nothing remaining of them, Lois." "Maybe... mavbc it's for the # # best," she said. "Maybe... maybe this should have happened a long time ago." I nodded abruptly. "I've... I've been thinking. A lot. I've been looking around me and seeing kids holding hands again and being human again. I've seen people laughing at... at humor that wasn't manufactured for them. I've seen tears that were personal and not generated. I... I think this is the first time I've really looked around me since as long as I can remember." "Yes, Y'an," Lois said softly. "I was wondering... if... if we couldn't take the senso to Belazi. Show him what we've got so far. Ask him for... for help in completing it." I turned my head back to the flames. It wasn't easy to say what I was saying. It wasn't easy at all. It was like cutting off the arm you've had attached to your shoulder all your life. "You see, Lois, the senso can be changed. I mean, it doesn't have to be... the... the way we have it. We could... get together. It's still a terrific thing, and it can be used for real entertainment. If... if we can find a middle ground... a compromise." Lois stared at me curiously. "I think we can," she said at last. "Maybe," I said, "maybe". She covered my hand with hers, and her flesh was warm and not at all repulsive. "It's not the end after all, is it, Van?" I turned to face her, and her eyes were warm, her lips parted expectantly. "No," I said. "It may be just the Survival of the fittest, on the frontier planet, of Altair, was a matter of who could tell the biggest whopper. Con-man Harry Redder considered himself a real master of the art -- but he didn't know the Alluirians! Letter of the By Alan E. Nourse Illustrated by Rudolph Palais damp, and smelled like moldy leaves. ' Meyerhof!' followed the huge, bearlike Altairian guard down the slippery flagstones of the corridor, sniffing the dead, musty air with distaste. He drew his carefully tailored, Terran styled jacket closer about his shoulders, shivering as his eyes avoided the black, yawning cell-holes they were passing. His foot had slipped on the slimey flags from time to time, and finally he paused to wipe the caked mud from his trouser leg. "Howmuch farther is it?" he shouted angrily. The guard waved a heavy paw vaguely into the blackness ahead. Quite sudenly the corridor took a sharp bend, and the Altairian stopped, producing a huge key ring from some obscure fold of his hairy hide. "I still don't sec any reason for all the fuss," he grumbled in a wounded tone. "We've treated him like a brother -- " One of the huge steel doors clicked open. Meyerhof!' peered into the blackness, catching a vaguely human outline against the back wall. "Harry?" he called sharply. There was a startled gasp from within, and a skinny, gnarled little man suddenly appeared in the guard's light, like a grotesque, twisted ghost out of the blackness. Wide blue eyes regarded Meyerhof!" from beneath uneven black eyebrows, and then the little man's face broke into a crafty grin. "Paul! So they sent you! I knew I could count on it!" He executed a deep, awkward bow, motioning Meyerhoff into the dark cubicle. "Not much to offer you," he said slyly, "but it's the best! can do under the circumstances..." Meycrhoff scowled, and turned abruptly to the guard. "We'll have some privacy now, if you please. Interplanetary ruling. And leave us the light." The guard grumbled, and started for the door. "It's about time you showed up!" cried the little man in the cell. "Great day! Lucky they sent you, pal. Why, I've been in here for years -- " "Look, Zcckler -- the name is Meyerhof!', and I'm not your pal," Meycrhoff snapped. "And you've been here for two weeks, three days, and approximately four hours. You're getting as bad as your gentle guards when it comes to bandying the truth around!" He peered through the dim light at the gaunt face of the prisoner. Zeckler's face was dark with a week's beard, and his bloodshot eyes belied the cocky grin on his lips. His clothes were smeared and sodden, streaked with great splotches of mud and moss. Meyerhoffs face softened a little. "So Harry Zeckler's in a jam again," he said. "You look as if they'd treated you like a brother." The little man snorted. "These overgrown teddy-bears don't know what brotherhood means, nor humanity, either. Bread and water I've been getting, nothing more, and then only if they feel like bringing it down." He sank wearily down on the rock bench along the wall. "I thought you'd never get here! I sent an appeal to the Terran Consulate the first day I was arrested. What happened? I mean, all they had to do was get a man over here, get the extradition papers signed, and provide transportation off the planet for me. Why so much time? I've been sitting here rotting -- " He broke off in mid-sentence and stared at Meycrhoff. You brought the papers, didn't you? I mean, we can leave now?" Meyerhoff stared at the little man with a mixture of pity and disgust. "You are a prize fool," he said finally. "Did you know that?" Zeckler's eves widened. "What do you mean, fool? So I spend a couple of weeks in this pneumoniatrap! The deal was worth it! I've the Terran Consulate on Altair IV, just waiting for me to walk in and do you hear? That's enough to set me up for life!" Meyerhoff nodded grimly. "If you live long enough to walk in and pick it up, that is." "What do you mean, if?" side the man, his voice a tense whisper in the musty cell. "I mean that right now you are practically dead. Y'ou may not know it, but you arc. You walk into a newlyopened planet with your smart little bag of tricks, with a shaky passport and no permit, with no knowledge of the natives outside of two paragraphs of inaccuracies in the Explorer's Guide -- and then you're not content to come in here and sell something legidmate, something the natives might conceivably I be able to use. No, nothing so simple for you. You have to pull your usual high-pressure stuff. And this time, buddy, you're paying the piper." "You mean I'm not being extradited?" MeyerhofT grinned unpleasantly. "I mean precisely that. You've committed a crime here -- a major crime. The Altairians arc sore about it. And the Terran Contrading possibilities here down the river just to get you out of a mess. You're going to stand trial -- and these natives are out to get you. Personally, I think they're going to get you." Zecklcr stood up shakily. "You can't believe anything the natives say," he said uneasily. "They're pathological liars. Why, you should sec what they tried to sell me! You've never seen such a pack of liars as these critters." He glanced up at MeyerhofT. "They'll probably drop a little fine on me and let me go." "A little fine of one Terran neck." MeyerhofT grinned nastily. "You've committed the most heinous crime these creatures can imagine, and they're going to get you for it if it's the last thing they do. I'm afraid, my friend, that your con-man days are over." Zecklcr fished in the other man's pocket, extracted a cigarette, and lighted it with trembling fingers. "It's bad, then," he said finally. "It's bad, all right." Some shadow of the sly, elfin grin crept over the little con-man's face. "Well, at any rate, I'm glad they sent you over," he said weakly. "Nothing like a good lawyer to handle a trial -- " "Lawyer? Not me! Oh, no -- sorry, but no thanks." MeyerhofTs face beamed maliciously. I'm your advisor, old boy. Nothing else. I'm here to keep you from botching things up still worse for the Trading Commission, that's all. I wouldn't get tangled up in a mess with these creatures for anything!" He shook his head. "You're vour own lawyer, Mr. Super-Salesman. It's all your show. And you'd better get your head out of the sand, or you're going to lose a case like it's never been lost before!"    tie man's pale face, and grinned inwardly. In a way, he thought, it was a pity to sec such a change in the rosy-cheeked, dapper, cocksure little man who had talked his way glibly in and out of more jams than MeyerhofT could count. Trading brought scalpers; it was almost inevitable that where rich and unexploited trading ground was uncovered, it would first fall prey to the fast-trading boys. They spread out from Terra with the first wave of exploration -- the slick, fast-talking men who could work new territories unfettered by the legal restrictions that soon closed down the more established planets. The first men in were the richest out, and through some curious quirk of the Terrestrial mind, they knew they could always count on Terran protection, however crooked and underhanded their methods. But occasionally a situation arose where the civilization and social practices of the alien victims made it unwise to tamper. Altair I had been recognized at once by the Trading Commission as a commercial prize of tremendous value, but early reports had warned of the danger of wildcat trading on the little, musty, jungle-like planet with its shaggy, thrcc-eycd inhabitants -- warned specifically against the confidence tactics so frequently used -- but there was always somebody, MeycrhofF reflected sourly, who just didn't get the word. Zcckler puffed nervously on his cigarette, his narrow face a study in troubled concentration. "But I didn't do anything!" he exploded finally. "So I pulled an old con game. So what! Why should they get so excited? So I clipped a few thousand fast credits, pulled a little fast business." lie shrugged eloquently, spreading his hands. "Everybody's doing it. They do it to each other without batting an eye. You should see these critters operate on each other. Why, my little scheme was peanuts by comparison -- " Meyerhoff pulled a pipe from his pocket, and began stuffing the bowl with infinite patience. "And precisely what sort of con game was it?" he asked quietly. Zeckler shrugged again. "The simplest, tiredest, moldiest old racket that ever made a quick nickel. Remember the old Terran gag about the Brooklyn Bridge? The same thing. Only these critters didn't want bridges. They wanted land -- this gooey, slimey swamp they call 'farm land'. So I gave them what they wanted. I just sold them some land." Meyerhoff nodded fiercely. "You sure did. A hundred square kilos at a swipe. Only you sold the same hundred square kilos to a dozen different natives!" Suddenly he threw back his hands and roared. "Of all the things you shouldn't have done -- " "But what's a chunk of land?" Meyerhoff shook his head hopelessly. "If you hadn't been so greedy, you'd have found out what a chunk of land was to these natives before you started peddling it. You'd have found out other things about them, too. You'd have learned that in spite of all their bumbling and fussing and squabbling they're not so dull. You'd have found out that they're marsupials, and that two out of five of them get thrown out of their mother's pouch before they're old enough to survive. You'd have realized that they have to start fighting for individual rights almost as soon as they're born. Anything goes, as long as it benefits them as individuals." Meyerhoff grinned at the little man's horrified face. "Never heard ol that, had you? And you've never heard of other things, too. You've probably never heard that there arc just too many Altairians here for the food their planet can supply, and their diet is so finicky that they just can't live on anything that doesn't grow here. And consequently, land is the key factor in their economy. Not money, nothing but land. "To get land, it's every man for himself, and the loser starves, and their entire legal and monetary system revolves on that principal. And they've built up the most confusing and impossible system of barter and trade imaginable, aimed at individual survival, with land as the value behind the credit. That explains the lying -- of course they're liars, with an economy like that. They've completely missed the concept of truth. "Pathological? You bet they're pathological! Only a fool would tell the truth when his life depended on his being a better liar than the next guy! Lying is the time-honored tradition, with their entire legal system built around it -- " could they possibly have a legal system? I mean, if they don't recognize the truth when it slaps them in the face?" McyerhofT shrugged. "As we understand legal systems, I suppose they don't have one. They have only the haziest idea what truth represents, and they've shrugged ofT the idea as impossible and useless." He chuckled maliciously. "So you went out and found a chunk of ground in the uplands, and sold it to a dozen separate, sclf-ccntercd, half-starved natives! Encroachment on private property is legal grounds for murder on this planet, and twelve of them descended on the same chunk of land at the same time, all armed with title-deeds -- " McyerhofT sighed. "You've got twelve mad Altairians in your hair. You've got a mad planet in your hair. And in the meantime, Terra's most valuable uranium strike in five centuries is threatening to cut off supply unless they sec your blood splattered liberally all the way from here to the equator." Zccklcr was visibly shaken. "Look," he said weakly. "So I wasn't so smart -- what am I going to do? I mean, are you going to sit quietly by and let them butcher me? How could I defend myself in a legal setup like this?" McyerhofT smiled coolly. "You're going to get your sly little con-man brain to working, I think," he said softly. "By Interplanetary Rules, they have to give you a trial in Tcrran legal form -- judge, jury, court procedure, all that foldcrol. They think it's a big joke -- after all, what could a judicial oath mean to them? -- but they agreed. Only thing is, they're going to hang you, if they die trying. So you'd better get those stunted little wits of yours to clicking -- and if you try to implicate me, even a little bit, I'll be out of there so fast you won't know what happened." With that, MeyerhofT chuckled and strolled to the door. He jerked it inward sharply, and spilled three guards over on their faces. "Privacy," he grunted, and started back up the slippery corridor. I courtroom, at any rate. In the front of the long, damp stone room was a bench, with a seat behind it, and a small straight chair to the light. To the left was a stand with twelve chairs -- larger chairs, with a railing running along the front. The rest of the room was filled almost to the door with seats facing the bench. Zccklcr followed the shaggyhaired guard into the room, nodding approvingly. "Not such a bad arrangement," he said. "They must have gotten the idea fast." Meyerhof! wiped the perspiration from his forehead and shot the little con-man a stony glancct "At least you've got a courtroom, a judge, and a jury for this mess. Beyond that -- " He shrugged eloquently. "I can't make any promises." In the back of the room a door burst open with a bang. Loud, harsh voices were heard as half a dozen huge Altairians attempted to push through the door at once. Zeckler clamped on the headset to his translator unit, and watched the hubbub in the anteroom with growing alarm. Finally the question of precedence seemed to be settled, and a group of the Altairians filed into the room in order of stature. stalking across the room in flowing black robes, pug-nosed faces glowering in self-importance. They descended upon the jury box, grunting and scrapping with each other for the first-row scats, and the judge took his place with obvious satisfaction behind the heavy wooden bench. Finally the prosecuting attorney appeared, flanked by two clerks, who took their places beside him. The prosecutor eyed Zeckler with cold malevolence, then turned and delivered a sly wink at the judge. In a moment the room was a hubbub as it filled with the huge, bumbling, bcarlike creatures, jostling each other and fighting for seats, growling and complaining. Two small fights broke out in the rear, but were quickly subdued by the group of gendarmes guarding the entrance. Finally the judge glared down at Zcckler with all three eyes and pounded the benc h top with a wooden mallet until the roar of activity subsided. The jurymen wriggled uncomfortably in their scats, exchanging winks, and finally turned their attention to the front of the court. "We are reading the case of the people of Altair I," the judge's voice roared out, "against one Harrs' Zackler -- " he paused for a long, impressive moment -- "Terran." The courtroom immediately burst into an angry grosvl, until the judge pounded the bench live or six times more. "This -- creature -- is hereby  accused of the following crimes," the judge bellowed. "Conspiracy to overthrow the government of Altair I. Brutal murder of seventeen law-abiding citizens of the village of Karzan at the third hour before dawn in the second period after his arrival. Desecration of the Temple of our beloved Goddess Zennat, Queen of the Harvest. Conspiring with the lesser gods to cause the unprecedented drought in the Dcrmatti section of our fair globe. Obscene exposure of his pouch-marks in a public square. Four separate and distinct charges of jailbreak and briber.' -- " die judge pounded the bench for order -- "Espionage with the accursed scum of Altair II in preparation for interplanetary invasion -- " The little con-man's jaw sagged lower and lower, the color draining from his face. He turned, wideeyed, to Meyerhof!', then back to the judge. "The chairman of the jury," said the judge succinctly, "will read die verdict!" The little native in the front of the jury-box popped up like a puppet on a string. "Defendant found guilty on all counts," he said. "Defendant is guilty! The court will pronounce sentence -- " "Now wail a minute!" Zcckler was on his feet, wild-eyed. "What kind of railroad job -- " The judge blinked disappointedly at Paul MeverholT. "Not yet?" he asked, unhappily. "No." MevcrholFs hands twitched nervously. "Not yet, your honor. Later, your honor. The trial comes first." candy had been stolen. "But you said I should call for the verdict -- " "Later. You have to have the trial before you can have the verdict." The Altairian shrugged indifferently. "Now...later..." lie muttered. "I lave the prosecutor call his first witness." said Mcvcrhofi. Zcckler leaned over, his face ashen. "These charges," he hissed. "Thev'rc insane!" "Of course they are," McyerhofT hissed back. "But what am I going to -- " "Sit tight. Let them set up." "But those lies. They're liars, the whole pack of them -- " He broke off as the prosecutor roared a name. The shaggy brute who took the stand was wearing a bright purple hat which sat rakishlv over one ear.  He grinned the Altairian equivalent of a hungrygrin at the prosecutor; Then he cleared his throat and started: "This Terran rifTrair -- " "The oath," muttered the judge. "We've got to have the oath." The prosecutor nodded, and four natives moved forward, carrying huge insc ribed marble slabs to the front of the court. One by one the chunks were reverently piled in a heap at the witness's feet. The witness placed a huge, hairy paw on the cairn, and the prosecutor said, "Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you -- " He paused to squint at the paper in his hand, and finished on a puzzled note, " -- Goddess?" The witness removed the paw from the rock pile long enough to scratch his car. Then he replaced it, and replied, "Of course," in an injured tone. "Then tell this court what you have seen of the activities of this abominable wretch." The witness settled back into the chair, fixing one eye on Zeckler's face, another on the prosecutor, and closing the third as if in meditation. "I think it was on the fourth night of the seventh crossing of Altair II (may the Goddess cast a drought upon it) -- or was it the seventh night of the fourth crossing? -- " he grinned apologetically at the judge -- "when I was making my way back through town toward my blessed land-plot, minding my own business, your honor, after weeks of bargaining for the crop I was harvesting. Then suddenly from the shadow of a building, this creature -- " he waved his paw at Zcckler -- "stopped me in my tracks with a vicious cry. He had a weapon I'd never seen before, and before I could find my voice he forced me back against the wall. I could sec by the cruel glint in his eyes that there was no warmth, no sympathy in his heart, that I was--" "Objection!" Zeckler squealed plaintively, jumping to his feet. "This witness can't even remember what night he's talking about!" The judge looked startled. Then he pawed feverishly through his bundle of notes. "Overruled," he said abruptly. "Continue, please." The witness glowered at Zeckler. "As I was saying before this loutish interruption," he muttered, "I could see that I was face to face with the most desperate of criminal types, even for Terrans. Note the shape of his head, the flabbiness of his cars! I was petrified with fear. And then, helpless as I was, this two-legged abomination began to shower me with threats of evil to my blessed home, dark threats of poisoning my land unless I would tell him where he could find the resting place of our blessed Goddess ) "I never saw him before in my life," Zcckler moaned to McyerhofT. "Listen to him! Why should I care where their Goddess -- " McyerhofT gave him a stony look. "The Goddess runs things around here. She makes it rain. If it doesn't rain, somebody's insulted her. It's very simple." "Hut how can I fight testimony like that?" "I doubt if you can fight it." "But they can't prove a word of it..." He looked at the jury, who were listening enraptured to the second witness on the stand. This one was testifying regarding the butchcrous slaughter of eighteen (or was it twenty-three? Oh, yes, twenty-three) women and children in the suburban village of Karzan. The pogrom, it seemed, had been accomplished by an energy weapon which ate great, gaping holes in the sides of buildings. A third witness took the stand, continuing the drone as the room grew hotter and muggier. Zcekler grew paler and paler, his eyes turning glassy as the testimony piled up. "but it's not true " he whispered to Meyerhof!. "Of course it isn't! Can't you understand? These f)eofle have no regard for truth. It's stupid, to them, silly, a mark of low intelligence. The only thing in the world they have any respect for is a liar bigger and more skillful than they abruptly as he heard his name bellowed out. "Does the defendant have anything to say before the jurydelivers the verdict ?" "Do I have -- " Zcekler was across the room in a flash, his pale cheeks suddenly taking on a feverish glow. He sat down gingerly on the witness (hair, facing the judge, his eyes bright with fear and excitement. "Your -- your honor, I -- I have a statement to make which will have a most important bearing on this case. You must listen with the greatest care." He glanced quickly at Meyerhof!, and back to the judge. "Your honor," he said in a hushed voice, "you are in gravest of danger. All of you. Your lives -- your very land is at stake." The judge blinked, and shuffled through his notes hurriedly as a murmur arose in the court. "Our land?" "Your lives, your land, everything you hold dear," Zcekler said quickly, licking his lips nervously. "You must try to understand me -- " he glanced apprehensively over his shoulder -- "now, because I may not live long enough to repeat what I am about to tell vou -- " # The murmur quieted down, all ears straining in their headsets to hear his words. "These charges," he continued, "all of them -- they're perfectly true. At least, they seem to be prifcctly true. Hut in every instance, I was working with heart and soul, risking my life, for the welfare of your beautiful planet." There was a loud hiss from the back of the court. Zcekler frowned and rubbed his hands together. "It was my mi' fortune," he said, "to go to the wrong planet when I first came to Altair from my homeland on Terra. I I landed on Altair II, a grave mistake, but as it turned out, a very fortunate error. Because in attempting to arrange trading in that frightful place, I made certain contacts." His voice trembled, and sank lower. "I learned the horrible thing which is about to happen to this planet, at the hands of those barbarians. The conspiracy is theirs, not mine. They have bribed your Goddess, flattered her and lied to her, coerced her all-powerful goodness to their own evil interests, preparing for the day when they could persuade her to cast your land into the firev furnace of a ten year drought -- " Somebody in the middle of the court burst out laughing. One by one the natives nudged one another, and booed, and guffawed, until the rising tide of racket drowned out Zecklcr's words. "The defendant is obviously lying," roared the prosecutor over the pandemonium. "Any fool knows that the Goddess can't be bribed. How could she be a Goddess if she could?" Zeckler grew paler. "But -- perhaps they were very clever -- " "And how could they flatter her, when she knows, beyond doubt, that she is the most exquisitely radiant creature in all the Universe? And you dare to insult her, drag her name in the dirt -- " The hisses grew louder, more belligerent. Cries of "Butcher him!" and "Scald his bowels!" rose from the courtroom. The judge banged for silence, his eyes angry. "Unless the defendant wishes to take up more of our precious time with these ridiculous lies, the jury "Wait! Your honor, I request a short recess before I present my final plea." "Recess?" "A few moments to collect my thoughts, to arrange my case." The judge settled back with a disgusted snarl. "Do I have to?" he asked McyerhofF. MeyerhofF nodded. The judge shrugged, pointing over his shoulder at the little anteroom. "You can go in there," he said. Somehow, Zeckler managed to stumble from the witness stand, amid riotous boocs and hisses, and tottered into the anteroom. a cigarette, and looked up at Meyerhof! with haunted eyes. "It -- it .doesn't look so good," he muttered. Meycrhoff's eyes were worried, too. For some reason, he felt a surge of pity and admiration for the haggard little con-man. "It's worse than I'd anticipated," he admitted glumly. "That was a good try, but you just don't know enough about them and their Goddess." He sat down wearily. "I don't sec what you can do. They want your blood, and they're going to have it. They just won't believe you, no matter how big a lie you tell." Zeckler sat in silence for a moment. "This lying business," he said finally. "Exactly how does it work?" "The biggest, most convincing liar wins. It's as simple as that. It doesn't matter how outlandish a whopper you tell. Unless, of course, they've made up their minds that you just naturally aren't as big a liar as they arc. And it looks like that's just what they've done. It wouldn't make any difference to them what you say -- unless, somehow, you could make them believe it." Zeckler was on his feet, his eyes suddenly bright with excitement. "Wait a minute," he said tensely. "To tell them a lie that they'd have to believe -- a lie they simply couldn't helf) but believe -- " He turned on McyerhofF, his hands trembling. "Do they think the way we do -- I mean, with logic, cause and effect, examining evidence and drawing conclusions? Given certain evidence, would they have to draw the same conclusion that we have to draw?" Meycrhoff blinked. "Well -- yes. Oh, yes, they're perfectly logical." Zcckler's eyes Hashed, and a huge grin broke out on his sallow face. Mis thin body fairly shook, and he started hopping up and down on one foot, staring idiotically into space. "If I could only think... he muttered. "Somebody -- somewhere -- something I read..." "Whatever arc you talking about?" "It was a Greek, I think..." Meyerhof! stared at. him. "Oh, come now. Have you gone off your rocker completely? Youvc got a problem on your hands, man -- " "No, no -- I've got a problem in the bag!" Zecklcr's cheeks flushed. "Let's go back in there -- I think I've got an answer!" The courtroom quieted the moment they opened the door, and the judge banged the gavel for silence. As soon as Zeckler had taken his seat on the witness stand, the judge turned to the head juryman. "Now, then," he said with happy finality. "The jury -- " "Hold on! Just one minute more." The judge stared down at Zcckler as if he were a bug on a rock. "Oh, yes. You had something else to say. Well, go ahead and say it." Zeckler looked sharply around the hushed room. "You want to convict me," he said softly, "in the worst sort of way. Isn't that right?" The judge looked uncomfortable. "If you've got something to say, go ahead and say it." "I've got just one statement to make. Short and sweet. But vou'd better listen to it, and think it out carefully before you decide that you reallv want to convict me." He paused, and glanced slyly at the judge. "You don't think much of those who tell the truth, it seems. Well, put this statement in your record, then." His voice was loud and clear in the still room. "All Eartlnncn arc absolutely incaiable of telling the truth." Puzzled frowns appeared on the jury's faces. One or two ext hanged startled glances, and the room was still as death. The judge stared at him, and then at Meyerhof!, then back. "But you..." he stammered. "You're..." he stopped in midsentence, his jaw sagging. One of the jurymen let out a little squeak, and fainted dead away. It took, all in all, about ten seconds for the statement to soak in. Then pandemonium broke loose in the courtroom. loftily, "it was so obvious I'm amazed that it didn't occur to me first thing." He settled himself down comfortably in the control cabin of the I ntcrplanetary rocket and grinned at the outline of A hair IV looming larger in the viewscreen. Paul Meyerhof! stared stonily at the controls, his lips compressed angrily. "You might at least have told me what you were planning." "And take the chance of being overheard? Don't be silly. It bad to come as a bombshell. I had to establish myself as a liar, the prize liar of them all, but I had to tell the sort of lie that they simply could not cope with. Something that would throw them into such utter confusion that they wouldn't dare convict me." He grinned impishly at Meyerhoff. "The paradox of Epiminedes the Cretan. It really stopped them cold. They knew I was an Earthman, which meant that mv statement that Earthmen were liars was a lie, which meant that maybe I wasn't a liar, in which case -- oh, it was tailor-made." "It sure was." MeverhofTs voice was a snarl. "Well, it made me out a liar in a class they couldn't approach, didn't it?" MeyerhofFs face was purple with anger. "Oh, indeed it did! And it put all Earthmen in exactly the same class, too." "So what's honor among thieves? I got off, didn't I?" Meyerhoff turned on him fiercely. "Oh, you got off just fine. You scared the living daylights out of them. In an con of lying they never have run up against a short-circuit like that. You've also completely botched any hope of ever setting up a trading alliance with Altair I, and that includes uranium, too. Smart people don't gamble with loaded dice. You seared them so badly they don't want anything to do with us." Zcckler's grin broadened, and he leaned back luxuriously. "Ah, well. After all, the Trading Alliance was your outlook, wasn't it? What a pity!" He clucked his tongue sadly. "Me, I've got a fortune in credits sitting back at the consulate waiting for me -- enough to keep me on silk for quite a while, I might say. I think I'll just take a nice, long vacation." Meyerhoff turned to him, and a twinkle of malignant glee appeared in his eyes. "Yes, I think you will. I'm quite sure of it, in fact. Won't cost you a cent, cither." "Eh?" Meyerhoff grinned unpleasantly. He brushed an imaginary' lint fleck from his lapel, and loked up at Zecklcr slyly. "That -- uh -- jury trial. The Altairians weren't any too happy to oblige. They wanted to execute you outright. Thought a trial was awfully silly -- until they got their money back, of course. Not credits..." Zecklcr went white. "But that money was in banking custody!" "Is that right ? My goodness. You don't supose they could have lost those papers, do you?" Meyerhoff grinned at the little con-man. "And incidentally, you're under arrest, you know." A choking sound came from Zecklcr's throat. "Arrest!" "Oh, yes. Didn't I tell you? Conspiring to undermine the authority of the Terra n Trading Commission. Serious charge, you know. Yes, I think we'll take a nice long vacation together -- straight back to Terra. And there I think you'll face a jury trial." Zecklcr sputtered. "There's no evidence! You've got nothing on me! What kind of a frame are you trying to pull?" "A lovely frame. Airtight. A frame from the bottom up, and you're right square in the middle. And this time -- " Meyerhoff tapped a cigarette on his thumb with happy finality -- "this time I don't think The Army had a new theme son g: " Anything you can do, we can do better!" And they meant anything, including up-to-date hornpipes! By Harry Harrison Illustrated by Kelly Freas G eneral wingrove looked at the rows of faces without seeing them. His vision went beyond the Congress of the United States, past the balmy June day to another day diat was coming. A day when the Army would have its destined place of authority. He drew a deep breath and delivered what was perhaps the shortest speech ever heard in the hallowed halls of Congress: "The General Staff of the U.S. Army requests Congress to abolish the archaic branch of the armed forces known as the U. S. Navy." The aging Senator from Georgia checked his hearing aid to see if it was in operating order, while the press box emptied itself in one concerted rush and a clatter of running feet that died off in the direction of the telephone room. A buzz of excited comment ran through the giant chamber. One by one the heads turned to face the Naval section where rows of blue figures stirred and buzzed like smoked-out bees. The knot of men around a paunchy figure heavy with gold braid broke up and Admiral Fitzjamcs climbed slowly to his feet. Lesser men have quailed before that piercing stare, but General Wingrove was never the lesser man. The admiral tossed his head with disgust, every line of his body denoting outraged dignity. He turned to his audience, a small pulse beating in his forehead. "I cannot comprehend the general's attitude, nor can I understand why he has attacked the Navy in this unwarranted fashion. The Navy has existed and will always exist as the first barrier of American defense. I ask you, gentlemen, to ignore this request as you would ignore the statements of any person... er, slightly demented. I should like to offer a recommendation that the general's sanity be investigated, and an inquiry be made as to the mental health of anyone else connected with this preposterous proposal!" The general smiled calmly. "I understand, Admiral, and really don't blame you for being slightly annoyed. But, please let us not bring this issue of national importance down to a shallow personal level. The Army has facts to back up this request -- facts that shall be demonstrated tomorrow morning." Turning his back on the raging admiral, General Wingrove included all the assembled solons in one sweeping gesture. "Reserve your judgment until that time, gentlemen, make no hasty judgments until you have seen the force of argument with which we back up our request. It is the end of an era. In the morning the Navy joins its fellow fossils, the dodo and the brontosaurus." The admiral's blood pressure mounted to a new record and the gentle thud of his unconscious body striking the floor was the only sound to break the shocked silence of the giant hall. warmed the white marble of the Jefferson Memorial and glinted from the soldiers' helmets and the roofs of the packed cars that crowded forward in a slow-moving stream. All the gentlemen of Congress were there, the passage of their cars cleared by the screaming sirens of motorcycle policemen. Around and under the wheels of the official cars pressed a solid wave of government workers and common citizens of the capital city. The trucks of the radio and television services pressed close, microphones and cameras extended. The stage was set for a great day. Neat rows of olive drab vehicles curved along the water's edge. Jeeps and half-tracks shouldered close bv  weapons carriers and six-bys, all ol them shrinking to insignificance beside the looming Patton tanks. A speakers' platform was set up in the center of the line, near the audience. At precisely # a.m. General Wingrove stepped forward and scowled at the crowd until they settled into an uncomfortable silence. His speech was short and consisted of nothing more than amplifications of his opening statement that actions speak louder than words. He pointed to the first truck in line, a #  -ton filled with an infantry squad sitting stiffly at attention. The driver caught the signal and kicked the engine into life; with a grind of gears it moved forward toward the river's edge. There was an indrawn gasp from the crowd as the front wheels ground over the marble parapet -- then the truck was plunging down towards the muddy waters of the Potomac. The wheels touched the water and the surface seemed to sink while taking on a strange glassy character. The truck roared into high gear and rode forward on the surface of the water surrounded by a saucer-shaped depression. It parked two-hundred yards off shore and the soldiers, goaded by the sergeant's bark, leapt out and lined up with a showy present aims. The general returned the salute and waved to the remaining vehicles. They moved forward in a series of maneuvers that indicated a great number of rehearsal hours on some hidden pond. The tanks rumbled slowly over the water while the jeeps cut back and forth through their lines in intricate patterns. The trucks backed and turned like pulling ballerinas. The audience was rooted in a hushed silence, their eyeballs bulging. They continued to watch the amazing display as General Wingrove spoke again: "You see before you a typical example of Army ingenuity, developed in Army laboratories. These motor units are supported on the surface of the water by an intensifying of the surface tension in their immediate area. Their weight is evenly distributed over the surface, causing the shallow depressions you see around them.  "This remarkable feat has been accomplished by the use of the Dornifier. A remarkable invention scientist, Colonel Robert A. Dorn, Commander of the Brooke Point Experimental Laboratory. It was there that one ol the civilian employees discovered the Dorn effect -- under the Colonel's constant guidance, of course. "Utilizing this invention the Army now becomes master of the sea as well as the land. Army convoys of trucks and tanks can blanket the world. The surface of the water is our highway, our motor park, our battleground -- the airfield and runway for our planes." Mechanics were pushing a Shooting Star onto the water. They stepped clear as flame gushed from the tail pipe; with the familiar whooshing rumble it sped down the Potomac and hurled itself into the air. "When this cheap and simple method of crossing oceans is adopted it will of course mean the end of that, fantastic medieval anachronism, the Navy. No need   battleships, drydocks and all the other cumbersome junk that keeps those boats and things afloat. Give the taxpayer back his hard-earned dollar!" Teeth grated in the Naval section as carriers and battleships were called "boats" and the rest of America's sea might lumped under the casual heading of "things." Lips were curled at the transparent appeal to the taxpayer's pocketbook. But with leaden hearts they knew that all this justified wrath and contempt would avail them nothing. This was Army Day with a vengeance, and the doom of the Navy seemed inescapable. The Army had made elaborate plans for what they called "Operation Sinker." Even as the general spoke the publicity mills ground into high gear. From coast to coast the citizens absorbed the news with their morning nourishment. "... Agnes, you hear what the radio said! The Army's gonna give a trip around the world in a B-# as first prize in this limerick contest. All you have to do is fill in the last line, and mail one copy to the Pentagon and the other to the Navy..." The Naval mail room had standing orders to bum all the limericks when they came in, but some of the newer men seemed to think the entire thing was a big joke. Commander Bullman found one in the mess hall : The Army will always he there. On the land, on the sea, in the air So why should the Navy Take all of the gravy... to which a seagoing scribe had added : And not give us ensigns our share ? The newspapers were filled daily with photographs of mighty B-#'s landing on Lake Erie, and grinning soldiers making mock beachhead attacks on Coney Island. Each man wore a buzzing black box at his waist and walked on the bosom of the now quiet Atlantic like a biblical prophet. Radio and television also carried the thousands of news releases that poured in an unending flow from the Pentagon Building. Cards, letters, telegrams and packages descended on Washington in an overwhelming torrent. The Navy Department was the unhappy recipient of deprecatory letters and a vast quantity of little cardboard battleships. The people spoke and their representatives listened closely. This was an election year. There didn't seem to be much doubt as to the decision, particularly when the reduction in the budget was considered. It took Congress only two months to make up its collective mind. The people were all pro-Army. The novelty of the idea had fired their imaginations. They were about to take the final vote in the lower house. If the amendment passed it would go to the states for ratification, and their votes were certain to follow that of Congress. The Navy had fought a last-ditch battle to no avail. The balloting was going to be pretty much of a sure thing -- the wet water Navy would soon become ancient history. For some reason the admirals didn't look as unhappy as they should. requested one last opportunity to address the Congress. Congress had patronizingly granted permission, for even the doomed man is allowed one last speech. Admiral Fitzjames, who had recovered from his choleric attack, was the appointed speaker. "Gentlemen of the Congress of the United States. We in the Navy have a fighting tradition. We 'damn the torpedoes' and sail straight ahead into the enemy's fire if that is necessary. We have been stabbed in the back -- we have suffered a second Pearl Harbor sneak attack! The Army relinquished its rights to fair treatment with this attack. Therefore we are counter-attacking!" Worn out by his attacking and mixed metaphors, the Admiral mopped his brow. "Our laboratories have been working night and day on the perfection of a device we hoped we would never be forced to use. It is now in operation, having passed the final trials a few days ago. "The significance of this device cannot be underestimated. We are so positive of its importance that -- we are demanding that the Army be abolished!" He waved his hand towards the window and bellowed one word. Everyone looked. They blinked and looked again. They rubbed their eyes and kept looking. Sailing majestically up the middle of Constitution Avenue was the battleship Missouri. The Admiral's voice rang through the room like a trumpet of victory. "The Mark-I Debinder, as you see, temporarily lessens the binding energies that hold molecules of solid matter together. Solids become liquids, and a ship equipped with this device can sail anywhere in the world -- on sea or land. Take your vote, gentlemen; the world awaits Don't Forget: Is Monthly! fiction available anywhere -- that's the simple summation of IF's policy. And that policy has proved itself so successful that now you'll be able to buy the magazine containing your favorite writers, artists and features twice as often. IF will be monthly instead of bi-monthly; you'll find a sparkling new issue on the stands early in every month. Or, have it delivered regularly to your home by subscribing now: # issues for #. Space travel is possible. Even the worst cynics now admit that, but some still ask skeptically why it's needed, and what possible good it can do. Hcre  s a new and surprising answer ! By James E. Gunn Illustrated by Rudolph Palais of the pneumatic chair in the anteroom, Bryson watched the secretary with the dark hair and the blue eyes being efficient over her typewriter. She was small, pretty, and trim. She wore a class-five navy-blue suit with a white, starched collar, but the figure beneath was strictly Class A. He would have enjoyed watching her longer as a slow flush creeping up beneath her clear, creamy skin said that she was not unaware of his admiration, but the box on her desk murmured and she looked up. "You may go in now, Mr. Bryson," she said respectfully to his gray-pinstripe, class-three business suit. "Mr. Gregg is expecting you." His shoes clicked across the asphalt tile, and the solid door swung silently open in front of him. The room was large, he thought, pausing at the doorway -- larger than the anteroom. And then he realized that it was mainly an illusion, that the room was not over twenty by twenty-five. There were no blast-dangerous windows, of course, but die upper half of one wall was almost all mirror. That helped. But die most compelling feature of the room was the biggest example of the popular three-dimensional pictures Bryson had ever seen. It was a landscape, done with realism if not with feeling: rolling green fields, rising to low wooded hills in the background, lighted from without in the Dutch manner. Then the tall, thin, greying man was approaching with his hand outstretched. "I'm Ben Gregg," he said with nervous energy. "Call me Ben. And you are John Bryson." "That's right." Gregg's handshake was firm and dry. He gestured Bryson to a chair and settled himself behind the broad desk, picked up the manuscript from the pile at his side, and laid it in front of him. "Er-ah -- I wanted to speak to you personally," he said uncertainly, "because I didn't think I could put what I had to say in writing. Let me say first that this is a good story -- cr -- a very good story. It has strong believable characters, a convincing, significant plot, effective description -- " His voice trailed away. "But?" Bryson prompted drily. Gregg smiled and relaxed a little. "Yes. But I can't publish it." He tossed the manuscript across the desk. "The language?" Bryson asked. "The words?" Gregg nodded. something new as the next editor -- maybe a little more so -- but this has too much against it." "I know," Bryson nodded. "That's why I sent the story to you. If it doesn't go over here, it hasn't a chance anywhere." "That's very flattering," Gregg said, getting up to pace back and forth behind his desk. "But you must understand my position. We publish a middle-class magazine -- classes six to three to be exact -- and in these days, when one must aim at a specific market, that means a great deal. The middle-class has always been the stoutest defender of the status quo, both in the social order and the literary field. You can't offend its ideas of propriety and expect anything but failure." "Unfortunately that's true," Bryson agreed. "And yet that's where one must start if one is ever to do any good." Gregg stopped for a moment and stared at him with a speculative look in his dark eyes. "I thought that you had more than a literary objective in mind. Maybe I'm in sympathy with it. But the time has passed when you can inject all those new phrases and words. They don't sound proper; they don't seem, even to me, in good taste. You could have done it twenty years ago -- in the forties or even the early fifties -- but not today. Clean it up and I think I can use it." Bryson shook his head. "That would be removing the whole purpose of it." Bryson paused and his eyes drifted to the picture. It might have been a window looking out onto rural New England. He looked back at Gregg. "The language is in a straitjacket," he continued abruptly. "The English language has hardened and calcified, ceased to grow, has become rigid and inflexible, hostile to anything new. English literature is dying because of this which has always been its dominant feature. Unless something is done, tlu language will soon be as dead .uni dry as Sanskrit." ( Jrrgg smiled. "Let me hazard a guess. You're a teacher." Bryson nodded. "English. You should see the young writers I'm trying to help -- heating their heads against the impenetrable wall of language, trying, as all writers must, to express the inexpressible and finding themselves tied down by dead or dying words, rendered impotent and mute. It's enough to put out the fires of mature genius, much less discourage forever struggling young talent. I tell you. Mr. Gregg -- " "Ben," Gregg smiled. "I tell you, Ben, if something isn't done a whole literary generation will be wiped out -- a catastrophe from which English literature might not recover for centuries. That wall must be leveled, Ben. That barrier of language must be broken down. The straitjacket must be unloosed, or circulation will be cut off entirely and limbs will have to fie amputated, even if the patient does not die." Gregg sighed. "Which it looks as if it will. The cold war slowly gets hotter, like a bunch of oily rags thrown under the basement steps. Maybe you're worrying too much about a language there may be no one around to speak." Bryson shook his head. "That's no solution. We've got to act as if the human race were going to pull through this, or we may have nothing worthwhile left, even if we do survive." "But what good will this one storv do?" Gregg objected. fii vsnn spread bis bands helplessly, "I don't know. The hole in the dike maybe? The ei.u k in the wall? The slit in the straitjacket? You have to start somewhere." "But. I'm afraid, not here," Gregg said with Imalily. "Not because I don't believe in much of what you've been saying I do: but because I don't think it will do any good ." Bisson's eves drifted back to the picture, and Gregg's gaze followed. I I is laugh was a little embarrassed. "Pretty poor, isn't it?" he admitted. "But it's there for psychological, not aesthetic, reasons. A touch of claustrophobia, the neurosis of our age. Being in these window-less offices for hours on end, I begin to get a little stilled. Then I look at that thing and imagine it's a window and it goes away sometimes." and back at the picture, back and forth as if he bad suddenly discovered some strange identity between the two. Gregg followed him with a puzzled frown for a moment ; then his face cleared and he began to chuckle. "I see what you mean," he said, a little sheepishly. "Maybe you're right. Come on -- the least I can do is buy you a drink." The door swung open as he approached. Bryson followed him into the reception room. "I'm going out for a moment, Miss llaines," Gregg informed the secretary. "If anything urgent comes up, you can get me at Tony's." As Bryson passed the desk, he bent over and breathed huskilv in    her car, but loud enough for Gregg to overhear: "What do you say we go out on the town tonight, you and me?" She jerked back, her face shocked and white, as if she had just learned that he was radioactive. "Okay, okay," Bryson said, straightening and shrugging. "If you're busy you're busy." When he joined Gregg in the hall, he was laughing. "You sec?" he said, after they were out of earshot. Gregg raised a thin, dark eyebrow. "You surely didn't expect anything else?" "Oh, the answer was all right. Although I must admit I'd have been more pleased -- in one way -- with another. But the reaction was a little violent, don't you think?" "That 'let's go out on the town tonight' was pretty vulgar," Gregg objected. "Romance speaks all languages," Bryson said as Gregg signaled for the elevator. "No, I'm afraid the answer would have been the same no matter how I phrased it. A class-five girl doesn't go out with a class-three man and keep her reputation. You'd be surprised how many dates I've missed that way." He sighed. "All the lovely girls I see are in other classes. The barriers are getting high and thick. On the other hand, if you had invited her to your apartment, I bet she'd have come -- reluctantly, maybe, but she'd have come. You know -- droit de seigneur?" "I'm married," Gregg said stiffly. "The principle's the same," Bryson laughed. "The attitude of the lower classes is getting positively medieval." "You might be right," Gregg relaxed and smiled. "But I hope you don't repeat the experiment. That sort of thing might quickly demoralize my staff -- besides giving me dangerous ideas." The elevator doors swung open. "Good afternoon, Mr. Gregg," the boy said, and with almost imperceptible shading, "Good afternoon, sir." As they faced the closing doors, Bryson nodded significantly toward the back of the boy's head. Gregg shrugged in recognition. The elevator lunged to a cushioned stop. "I must admit," Gregg said, when the doors had closed behind them and they were walking across the foyer, "that I'm becoming aware of a lot of things I took for granted before. And I'm not sure I like the awakening." "Oh, we're all falling into molds. It's a highly stratified society in which everybody knows his place and nobody steps out of it. Except me." Bryson grinned recklessly. "I make rebellion a habit -- an ineffectual one, perhaps, but soulsatisfying. Once I carried a sample of low-grade uranium ore into a security lock and shoved it under the geiger. You should have seen the commotion. Bolts clicked, bright lights came on, the scanner stamped my card and the video told me in a cold voice that my picture and identifying characteristics were in the wanted (ile and that I must not move. Within a minute, an emergency ear wailed up outside, the front door clicked open, I walked out with five guns covering me, and I was whisked away to headquarters. Then's when the fun really began." "You have plenty of nerve," Gregg commented drily. "Oh, that!" Bryson shrugged. "I was shaking before it was over. But I did manage to wangle a release before they got everything straightened out. I still have a little fun with it." Gregg opened the door, and they stepped into the security lock. The editor slipped his card quickly into the slot and fared the screen. A cackle, and the card was back in his hand. Then Bryson inserted the corner of his card and grinned at Gregg. "Watch what happens!" lie said slyly. He pushed tin card and it disappeared into the wall. Extra holts clicked in the doors. The lock was filled with an intense, merciless light that showed up every line, every bead of sweat on Gregg's paling face. "What the hell, Bryson -- " he began, his voice shaking. "Listen!" Bryson (buckled. The video sprang into life. "Oh, my God!" said a weary, disillusioned voice. "It's you again." "There seems to be something wrong with the machine," Bryson said apologetically. "There's nothing wrong with the machine," the voice shouted. "It's you -- you -- you -- troublemaker! There's something wrong with you!" "Maybe it's the card," Bryson sugested meekly. "Of course it's the card!" the voice screamed. With obvious effort, the voice regained control of itself. "See here, Brvson! I'm warning you for the last time. Gome in and get a new card or I'll send a squad out to bring you in!" finality. The bolts shot back, and the outside door swung open. Gregg stepped precipitately onto the sidewalk, Bryson following more slowly. I le had a little difficulty walking; he was shaking with laughter. Finally he took a handkerchief and wiped the tears from his eyes. "That clerk!" he said. "Sometimes I think lie'll crack wide open." Bryson glanced at Gregg, and his laughter was suddenly cut off. Gregg's face was still white; he was mopping at his forehead. "Oh, say," Bryson said, sincerely apologetic now. "I'm sorry I upset you. I had no idea -- " "It wasn't that," Gregg said, smiling feebly. "It's the being shut up -- you know!" "I should have remembered," Bryson said, waggling his head repentantly. "I'm never troubled with it, and I tend to forget. Forgive me, will you?" Gregg waved his hand and managed a ghost of a chuckle. "Forget it. It was rather amusing. at that." The sidewalks were busy, but the steady streams of pedestrians had formed an eddy around them, carefully delineated. As they walked south, the eddv followed them. Over the heads of the crowd, Brv# son could sec other eddies, some approaching, others traveling in the same direction as they were. The general stream seemed to separate into layers, like unmixable liquids: along the street side the class nine and ten, laborers; next, classes seven and eight, skilled workers and technicians; toward the buildings, classes five and six, white-collar workers, class four, supervisors and students; in the middle, class threes and above. Even a casual eye could detect the subtle but definite tones, cut, and style of clothing that marked the differences. Then another eddy met theirs and merged with it for a moment. Gregg nodded, with precise equality, at the class-two businessman in the center. Then die eddies split apart again, like a fissioning amoeba. "Rebellion is all right as an individual protest," Gregg remarked, "but it's suicidal for anyone dependent on public approval -- in a purely pragmatic dollars and cents way, at that." "Perhaps you're underestimating the sub-current of revolt among your readers?" Gregg scoffed. "What sub-current? You should read the letters I get. The slightest deviation from the norm is greeted with howls of protest and demands for the heads not only of the writer but invsclf. Would you like to know what would happen if I printed your story?" Bryson nodded. "Well," Gregg began, "first, it would stand out like a prostitute at a meeting of the Anti-Sex League. It would be inconsistent with the rest of the material in the magazine. The critical letters would descend upon us like a Second Flood, half of them threatening to cancel their subscriptions. Various organizations for the suppression of this or that would launch campaigns against us. We'd be labeled 'vulgar,' 'immoral,' 'indecent,' 'subversive,' and finally 'un-American' or 'Communistic. " "That's absurd. Russia is in even a tighter straitjacket than wc arc," Bryson objected, "if that's any consolation." "What difference has that ever made? But I'm not finished. The critics would complete the massacre with charges of 'decadence,' 'slovenly writing,' 'corrupting the language,' 'defiling the pure springs of American speech and literature,' etc., etc., etc. At their head would be Joshua Duncan." Gregg winced at his own suggestion. "I've had him on my back a few times before and, I'm sorry to say, come out of it glad to cling to niy job and my scalp." Bryson made a grimace of distaste. "Duncan! That big bag of superfluous remarks!" "Perhaps," Gregg shrugged, "but he wields an inordinate amount of power -- and a deadly typewriter. At the Chinese Torture of a Thousand Cuts or relatively painless decapitation, lie is unrivaled. And I'm not sure that some of the things he may say will not be justified." "Such as?" "That the neologisms and new phrases are, on the whole, obviously contrived, artificial, and unlikely." Bryson's spirits seemed slightly dampened. "That's right, I supose. How can one invent a new, vital language? That has to grow out of the life of a people; it comes spontaneously under the influence of a strong, new impulse. And yet, what can one do when one wishes to represent such a situation?" "Fail, Duncan will say. And that you should never have tried." "Duncan is a fool," Bryson said gloomily. "And yet if it weren't he, it would be someone else. Flic age called out for a literary dictator and  Duncan answered, as Samuel Johnson did in his. Outside of the fact that Johnson had some creative power and Duncan has none, there's an amazing resemblance between the two. Oh, Duncan has some merits: he can recognize what's good within certain narrow limits and encourage it. But outside of that, he's blind and vindictive. He stands for everything that's responsible for the death of our world and our language -- the narrowness, the restrictions, the ossification, the insensitivity, the -- " ing, soul-piercing shriek that echoed between the city cliffs and screamed terror to the winds. The streams of humanity froze, and in the next moment distinctions of person and class were forgotten. With one mind, the crowd turned and began running, threading around or vaulting the cars and busses pulled up in the middle of the street, whose occupants had poured out to join the rest. Like sands in an hourglass, the fractions of humanity poured slowly through the constricting necks of openings into the earth. "This way," Gregg shouted. "The nearest subway is just down the block." They ran, battling against the pushers and shovers on either side. Squeezed in finally, they were unable to help their own progress any more but permitted themselves to be carried along, concentrating only on keeping their feet -- a difficult process when the grains began to flow down the steps. Down -- down -- down -- past the subway levels and down again. At last they were released in a huge concrete room, broken by large pillars and scattered benches. Gregg and Bryson pulled at their disarranged suits, whose untorn condition was a proof of the quality of class two and three tailoring. Some of the others who now began to fill the room were not so fortunate; here a sleeve was missing; there a man was naked to the waist, his shirt hanging in shreds. Slowly the trickle into the room diminished and stopped; armed guards appeared at the doors. The mob began to mill around, gathering into groups here and there until Gregg and Bryson were isolated. "We seem to be alone," Bryson said drily. It was true. They were the only class twos and threes in the room. Everywhere else knots of men and women talked and gestured in comradery, even venturing an occasional short, barking laugh ; but the space around them was as clearly defined as it had been on the street. Bryson glanced around the crowded room. "A symbol of the age," he said. "We're in what Matthew Arnold called an epoch of concentration, like England in the #'s, produced by what he called the hostile, forcible pressure of foreign ideas. We call it a cold war." "Cold!" exclaimed Gregg, looking around the bomb shelter. "Every epoch of concentration, Arnold said, is followed by an epoch of expansion. But I wonder how long an epoch of concentration can last without inflicting permanent damage. Ours has lasted twenty years. A little longer and we may not be able to recover." "We're no nearer a solution than we were twenty years ago," Gregg said moodily. "I know. There seems to be no hope of a diplomatic settlement of the cold war, or of Russia's being weakened by internal dissension. But if a new frontier opened... Look at England's Elizabethan Age if you want to sec what an cXch of expansion looks like." "What do you mean?" "The defeat of the Spanish Armada and the great explorations and discoveries opened up vast new territories. As a consequence, the Elizabethan was the lustiest, most fully alive age of English literature. It was full of the joy of living; new words were being absorbed into the language by the thousands; the period was receptive to all sorts ol influences. And then, as England began to age and harden, America became the center of vigor. A frontier, that seemed as if it would last forever, eternally renewed the language and kept it alive. But the frontiers are gone, and we are both dying and the language with us, and there is nowhere else to look." There was silence bteween them for a moment. Gregg began to fidget and pull at his collar. "It's stifling in here," he complained. The large screen at the end of the room came alive, and the air of tension that had begun to grow throughout the crowd subsided. The screen imaged the blue sky pulled with clouds. There were white trails in the blue, circling and climbing. "Interceptors," Gregg muttered. "For what?" In the depths of the blue there was a glint that sparkled and was gone. And the glint came again and was steady. "God!" breathed Gregg. "The interceptors arc invisible. That must be big!" The glint came nearer and was a silver dot that poured forth a long, white tail. And the screen went blank. "This telecast," the voice from the speaker said, "is interrupted for security reasons. There is no cause for alarm at this time, but the allclear will be withheld until the military authorities have had time to make a final check." The screen came back on with a light, airy movie -- a pastoral interlude with songs and dances and gay chatter. The worries were minute, the problems simple, the atmosphere joyous. It was the latest rage. It was, however, not completely successful. The tension began to grow again, until it became almost tangible. Conversations ceased or became monosyllabic. Laughter was cut off short. The crowd swaved a little toward the entrance. "Remain where you arc," a speaker warned, "until the sounding of the all-clear." The crowd swayed back, hesitated for a moment, and surged again toward the door. A guard turned and pressed a button near the entrance. A steel door slid across the opening. The guards unbuttoned their holster flaps. and it sagged to its former position. A slow , uneasy murmur began to grow. A class-nine laborer tore at the collar of his gray workingclothes and ripped it open, breathing harshly. "Don't you think the air's getting bad in here?" Gregg asked, his face getting white. He pulled down his tie and unloosed his collar. "Surclv not," Brvson said cheerfully. "The place is well ventilated" Minutes passed. The free space around them began to grow smaller and less sharply defined. Somewhere a woman fainted and a child began to wail. The sanitary facilities were kept busy; lines formed at the drinking fountains. Gregg's face began to twist as his breath came quickly. "God," he muttered. "Oh, God!" Finally the speaker cleared its throat. "The Airport Authority has just announced that the object which caused the initial alarm has landed at an undisclosed airport near the city. The object was a manned rocket constructed by the Department of Defense. It has just returned from the moon. The all-clear will be sounded immediately; you may all return to your normal activities." The last few words were lost in the cheers and swelling conversational hubbub that greeted the announcement. Gregg and Bryson looked at each other with lifted eyebrows. Bryson nodded, and they made their way toward the nowopen door, the all-clear wailing behind them. They emerged, blinking, into the sunlight. "There's your new frontier," Gregg said. "Maybe," Bryson said noncomittally. "Or maybe it's the last stitch in the straitjacket. Depending on how it's used." "You mean if it's exploited solely for military purposes." Bryson nodded. "And presented to the public as military in nature. Docs the moongate open out to freedom or in to hell? It all depends." Gregg came to a halt in front of a door-lock. "Here we are." Bryson looked up and saw the word "Tony's" printed across the blackened windows in what must be luminescent paint. Gregg fidgeted beside him. "Go ahead," Bryson motioned with a smile. "I won't put you through that twice." With a muttered thanks, Gregg disappeared through the door. After a moment, Bryson followed him. When he came out inside, he was chuckling. "That clerk -- " he began. "Look!" interrupted Gregg, motioning. "The great man himself." At a rear lxoth of the dimly lit, sedately luxurious bar, Bryson saw a large, ugly, fat man surrounded by a group of eagerly listening admirers. The man's booming voice carried easily to where they stood. "As a writer, Saundcrson is a stink in the nostrils of the American public; as a philosopher, he is an abomination in the eyes of God." Bryson screwed up his face and glanced at Gregg. "So that is Duncan!" "In his full glory." "Ah there, Gregg," the voice rolled out. "Still publishing those sections of tripe you call short stories." Gregg winced. "Come back," Duncan bellowed. "I have someone here I want you to meet. You may bring your halfwitted friend with you." Bryson flushed, but Gregg shrugged his shoulders and strolled to the rear. "Here," said Duncan when they arrived, indicating a dark, nondescript young man, "is a dull-w'itted fellow who writes the sort of swill you prefer. He'd like to show you a story." Gregg lifted a thin, dark eyebrow at the unsmiling young man. "Tomorrow morning -- at ten?" The young man nodded. "And now," said Duncan, turning away from them, "begone! I am already beginning to feel tainted. And take your half-witted friend with you. He has been made happy enough for one day." Bryson leaned forward across the table. "You, sir, are as insulting as you arc ugly and as stupidly narrow as you are fat. You are a stink in the nostrils of the American public and an abomination in the eyes of God." Duncan turned back. "Ah, a lad with spirit," he said coolly. "I like a lad with spirit." And then his voice grew icy. "But puerile, juvenile, and unoriginal. Take him away, Gregg, until he ripens." Gregg tugged at his coat-tails, and Bryson permitted himself to be led from the table. "Why do you stand for that?" Indemanded, fuming, when they had found a booth and pressed quickly for a drink. "Because I can't help myself." "You surely aren't going to see that sullen fellow he urged on you." "Oh, yes," Gregg shrugged. "And I'll buy his story, I imagine. Duncan's pretty shrewd. It probably is the sort of swill I prefer." "If I were in your shoes, I'd do something about it," Bryson said bitterly. Gregg smiled humorlessly. "Let me tell you about someone who did. He was an editor -- told Duncan off, too -- in public and in print. So every chance Joshua got, he slipped in a sly remark about the editor until you had only to mention his name in almost any gathering to get a laugh and have someone repeat Duncan's latest witticism. He was laughed out of town. He's now hacking out fiction, and tiie only way he can sell it is under a pseudonym." "What this country needs," Bryson muttered, "is another Mencken who could stand up to him and trade blow for blow for freedom. Someone who could beat him at his own game." drinks for several minutes, thinking their thoughts in silence, until an uproar at the door-lock brought them nut of their reveries. One of the bai tenders was engaged in a violent argument with a small, sunburned man in an uncertain assortment of garments which were incapable of t lassilication. Behind him, a medley of men of all classes, from four dow n to ten, were emerging from the lock. "I'm very sorrv," said the bar# # # tender, sounding not the least sorrv as he barred the wav, his arms folded across his chest. "This bar is reserved for class-three patrons and above." "Out of my way, Earthbound," the bantam said imperiously in a surprising baritone voice, and then he burst out with irrepressible exuberance. "I've reached E.V., and I'm almost space-bound. Today's my day, and I'm blowing all my jets. Don't try to tie me down; I'm space dust. I'm free as a comet's tail and twice as hard to take hold of. Make way. Obsolete, or I'll tie a rocket to your tail and ride you bareback to Venus." By sheer volume and vigor and by the weight of numbers behind him, the cocky little fellow pushed his way past the stunned bartender, who stood staring after him with his mouth hanging halfway open. The intruder, who could not have stood over five feet three or four, pounded vigorously on the bar with his clenched fist. "A bulb and a straw," he shouted. "Straight bourbon." There was a chorus of seconds from his worshipping followers, some of whom seemed just a little uneasy in the surroundings. Not so the bantam. "Whoo-ce!" lie yelled, after downing his drink. "Throw me a line -- I'm floating." Gregg and Bryson exchanged glances. "There's your new language," Gregg grimaced. "Vulgar!" Bryson exclaimed with admiration. "Vulgar as hell!" The crowd around the bantam increased. Gregg watched in amazement as even class twos and threes began to join the group in friendly non-distinction. "Maybe this is it," Bryson said. "Maybe the pressure from within has burst through the walls. The influences of concentration will try to push it back into the mold, but if the force is strong enough, maybe it will completely shatter the walls and scatter the pieces from here to the moon. It's a beginning, anyway. Maybe even the cold war won't be able to stand up to it when the word gets out that the United States lias broken the chains of Earth, has opened the way to the stars." He pulled out a pen and a piece of paper and began to scribble madly. A familiar voice bellowed from a back booth. "The atmosphere in here has become fouled with the stench of the masses. Sweep the garbage out!" No one moved. The bartenders stared toward Duncan helplessly. "Oh-oh!" muttered Bryson. "The restraining influence begins. Can the new force withstand it?" "Either the rabble goes," Duncan lumblcd, as if there were no doubt of the final choice, "or I go." One of the bartenders, glancing cautiously toward the group at the bar, lifted a phone, dialed and spoke briefly into the receiver. "Float a bulb to the overstufTed groundhog in the back booth," said the bantam cheerfully. "He can't help it if he's planet-bound." Duncan got up ponderously and stalked, glowering toward the bar. He pushed his way through the throng until he stood towering above the little intruder. "Mite on the back of culture!" he thundered. "Flea in the fur of the world-bitch! You and your trained chimpanzees are unwelcome here. We want none of your tricks and even less of your vulgar, meaningless monkey chatter. Go and annoy someone else, vacuum brain!" The bantam pressed himself forward against Duncan's overhanging belly and stared defiantly up at the jowled, furious face. "Dampen them, Overload. If you were my cargo, you'd be jettisoned before anything else. You haven't got the jayvee to lift that overage hull off the ground. Your jets are eaten out : one more blast and you'll blow oil vour stern, You # # think you're in a tight orbit because you're eating your own exhaust, but you were born six feet under and never dug yourself out." Step by step, Duncan backed toward the front as the bantam followed, keeping him off balance with his light word-jabs. Finally Duncan stood bewildered, against the doorlock. "Bah!" he muttered. "I won't trade insults with a vulgar barbarian." He turned and fled through the door. The room exploded with laughter. "Whoo-ce!" shouted the victorious bantam. 'Tin a cosmic ray. You can't keep me out and you can't keep me in. All you know is that I've passed when you count the atoms I've split." When Gregg ceased shaking, he wiped his eyes. "Oh, Duncan will never live this down. Beaten by a flyweight who wouldn't know a verbal from a vocative." The place suddenly grew quiet as two officers of the security patrol stood in the door. The bartender hurried to them and pointed toward the little intruder and his friends, but the officers shook their heads and continued to search the room. Then one stopped and nodded toward the side of the room where Bryson and Gregg were sitting. They strode detenninably forward, skirting the tables. "All right, Bryson," one of them said. "Gome with us." "Me?' Bryson said. "You've got a little business to settle with the security office." Bryson got up slowly. bantam, bursting between them. "Let's not break up the party, Grounderew." Bryson patted the little fellow on the shoulder. "Thai's all right, hero. You've done enough for one day." "Come on, Bryson," said one of the officers, wearily. "Let's get that card fixed up. One of the clerks had hysterics, right in the middle ol the main control room, just because of you." Bryson laughed and started across the floor with them. "I'll send Miss Haines down to vouch lm you," Gregg called after him. "And Bryson," he shouted with sudden decision, "fix up the neologisms and put Duncan in it, and I'll buy that storv."   Bryson chortled, leaped in the air, and Happed his arms. "Whoo-ce!" lie shouted. "I'm The Big News: if Is Monthly! Yes, beginning with the March issue, you'll be able to buy your favorite science fiction magazine each and every month! And you won't want to miss an issue -- they'll all be tops! The barn turned out to be a spaceship in disguise, arid that was only the beginning. Before his strange adventure ended, young Paul Asher found himself going around in circles -- very peculiar circles indeed! By Richard Wilson Illustrated by Paul Orban ishings buyer, leaned back and let the cloth band be fastened across his chest, just under his armpits. He adjusted his heavy spectacles, closed his eyes or a moment, breathed deeply, and ivas off. The semi-darkness was dispelled as he shot out of a tunnel into dazzling sunlight. The high-powered vehicle lie was driving purred smoothly as it took the long, rising curve. The road climbed steadily toward the mountaintop city ahead. He looked around to satisfy himself that he was alone in the car. He wasn't. The girl was a pretty one. He'd seen her somewhere before, he thought. She was looking insolently at him, her wide red mouth in a half smile. Her dark hair stirred in the breeze coming through the window, next to her, which was open just a slit. She said: "Just keep going, Sweetheart, as fast as you can." And she patted the oversized pocketbook that lay in her lap. He pressed down on the accelerator and the car responded with a How of power. The countryside fell away from the road on either side. Far below he could see a river, winding broadly to the far-off sea. The summer day sent its heatshimmers across the miniature landscape. The road curved again. Theirs was the only car he had seen since he'd come out of the tunnel. But now, far ahead, he saw another. It was standing at the side of the road, next to a gate that came down in the manner of one at a railroad crossing. But he knew by its black and white diagonals and by the little sentrv hut half hidden behind d the other car that it marked the frontier. A man with a rifle on his shoulder stood there. They drew up to it fast, but his foot automatic ally eased up on the floorboard pedal until diegirl spoke sharply. "Right through it, Sweetheart." In the rearview mirror he saw her leaning forward, her face tense. In a moment it would be time to stop, if he were going to. Paul Asher hesitated a moment. Then he too leaned forward, the band pressing into his chest. He was breathing heavily. There was an almost inaudible click. He trod on the accelerator. He had a glimpse of the guard unslinging his rifle from his shoulder and of another man running toward the parked car as his vehicle smashed into the flimsy gate and sent it, cracked and splintered, to the side of the road. He fought the slight wrench of die wheel and sped on. He thought he heard a shot. "Nice work," die girl said. She seemed to be appraising him as she looked at him. "My name, incidentally, is Naomi." "Hello," he heard himself saying as he whipped the car around a curve that hid the frontier behind a hill. "You seem to know who I am." "That I do." she said. "Then why don't you call me by my name, instead of 'Sweetheart'?" "That's because I like you, Swcedieart." She was looking out the rear window. "Now just step on the gas, because we've got company." The car that had been parked near the sentry hut was whipping into view around the curve. It was lighter than his, but it was fast, too. He stepped on it. narrow and twisting. The grade was steep but the surface was good. Abruptly, it entered a forest. The girl said : "Two more curves. Then you'll see a field and a barn. OfT the road and into the barn, fast." He took the curves with rubber screaming and almost without braking sent the car bumping across the field and into the barn. It was bigger than it had seemed from the outside. As he brought the car to a lurching halt the barn door closed. Where he had expected to sec stalls and milking machines and hay he saw an expanse of metal floor and monstrous machinery. The barn door which had been a rickety wooden slab from the outside was a gleaming sheet of metal from the inside. It glided silently shut and left no joint or seam to show where there had been an opening. "Out," said Naomi. As they left the car, a flexible metal arm snaked from one of the smooth walls, attached itself to the front bumper of the vehicle, and whisked it into a cubicle which opened to receive it and closed behind it. A power-driven w'heclchair sped up to them. Sitting in it was a fat man of middle age, with pendulous jowls and a totally bald head. His expression was a sardonic scowl. "You have the plans?" he asked the girl. "Sweetheart here has them." "I don't know what you're talking about," the young man said. "He knows, all right," the girl said. "He pretends to be innocent, but that is merely his training. He has them under a sticking plaster on the small of his back." "Remove your coat and shirt," commanded the man in the wheelchair. At that moment the floor shuddered under their feet, a gong began to clang insistently, and the giant machinery, which had been silent, throbbed into life. The man in the wheelchair whirled and was off, shouting commands to men who materialized high on the walls in cylindrical turrets which the visitor could only think of as battle stations. "What is this place?" he asked. He got no answer. Instead the girl grabbed his arm and pulled him oir to the edge of the gigantic metal room. An opening appeared in the wall and she pushed him through it into a room beyond. The entranceway snapped shut behind them and when he looked he could sec no door. The room also was windowless. Naomi went to a metal table and as she looked down into its surface it became a screen. Mirrored in it was the mountainous countryside they had driven through to get to the barn -- or what had seemed to be a barn from the outside. He looked over her shoulder. They saw as from a height. There was the light car that had chased them from the frontier. Standing near it was a man in an officer's uniform and another in civilian clothes. They were talking and gesturing. Beside the car was a tank. As they watched, its gun fired and the structure they were in shuddered, but they heard no sound. Lumbering up the mountain road were more tanks and a self-propelled gun. One of the tanks became enveloped in smoke and flames as they watched. After a moment the smoke cleared. The tank was gone; where it had been there was a deep crater. Gradually, the figures in the drama below grew smaller. At the. same time the vista widened, so that they saw more and more countryside. It twisted beneath them and the horizon came giddily into view. A few moments later the curvature of the earth could be plainly seen. Everything fitted together at once. Some of the things, anyway. "We're in a ship," he said. "Some kind of rocket-ship." "It's a planet plane," the girl said. "We're safe now." "Safe from what?" he asked. "What's this all about?" She smiled enigmatically. "Hafitz could tell you, if he chose. He's the boss." "The man in the wheelchair?" She nodded and took out a compact. As she added lipstick to her mouth, she looked him over, between glances in her mirror. "You don't look like the spy type. If there is a type." "I'm not a spy. I don't know what you're talking about." "The innocent! Go on, take off your coat and shirt. We'll save Hafitz some time." "I'll be glad to, just to prove this is all ridiculous. A case of mistaken identity. You've made a mistake, that's what you've done." He stood there, hesitating. The girl gave a burst of laughter. Then she said: "All right, Sweetheart. I'll turn my back." She did, and he pulled his shirt out of his trousers. Then he froze. Taped to the skin of his back was a Hat package. Paul Asher made the decision. He bent forward , feeling perspiration in the palms of his hands. There was a faint click. hesive from his back. There was an instant of pain as the plaster came free. He wadded up the sticky package, dropped it to the floor and kicked it under the desk. Then he took off his coat, tie and shirt. "You can turn around now," he said. "A more modest spy I've never seen. Okay," she said, "now you turn around." "As you see," he said, "there arc no plans -- no papers." "No -- not now. But there is a red mark on your back. What is it?" "Oh" he said. "Oh -- that's a birthmark." She spun him around to face her. Her face was harsh. She slapped his cheek. "Where is the sticking plaster? Don't trifle with me." Her eyes bored into his. He returned the gaze, then shrugged. "Under the desk," he said. "I tore it off and kicked it under the desk." "You are sensible to confess," she said. She bent down, unwisely. Paul Asher felt the familiar tightening in his chest as he leaned forward. The click was barely it card. He raised his hand and brought the edge of it down hard on the back of her neck. She crumpled and fell to the metal floor. He noticed that a smear of her freshly-applied lipstick came off on it. He pushed the unconscious body aside and fished the packet out from under the desk. He searched the room for another hiding place. But it was too late. A section of wall opened and Hafitz, the fat man in the wheelchair, sped in. He wheeled past the young man, looked briefly at the unconscious girl, then whisked himself around. "You will pay for this, my friend," he said. "But first we will have the plans for the way-station. Where are they?" "I don't know anything about any plans and I don't know anything about a way-station. I tried to tell the girl: it's all a crazy mistake." "We will see," said Hafitz. He pressed a button on the arm of his wheelchair and two bruisers appeared through the walls, in the abrupt way people had of materializing here. Bruisers was the only way they could be described. They were human brutes, all muscle and malevolence. "Take them," said Hafitz, indicating the unconscious girl and the young man. "Take them and search them for a small packet. If you do not find it, search this room. If you do not find it still, hurt the male animal. They persuade well with pain here, I understand. But do not kill him. I will be in the communications room." He sped off, through a wall opening. One of the bruisers picked up the girl, roughly, and disappeared with her. The other grabbed the young man and hauled him oil in a third direction. The young man hastily snatched up his coat, shirt and tie en route. They ended up in a cell of a room, about seven feet in all directions, in which the bruiser stripped him, methodically went through each piece of clothing, and then satisfied himself that he didn't have the packet anywhere on his body. The muscle-man then raised a fist. "Wait," his prospective victim said. He thought back quickly. "Hafitz didn't say you could bat me around till you searched the room, too." The other spoke for the first time. "You say the truth." He put his arm down. The young man watched intently as the bruiser went through the wall of the cell-like room. He dressed fast. By placing his fingers in exactly the same position as the other had done, was able to make the wall open for him. The silver-metal corridor had two directions. He went to the right. After many turnings, at each of which he reconnoitercd carefully, he came to a passageway that was damp. Why it was damp he couldn't tell, but there in the wetness were tracks which could have been made by a wheelchair. He followed them, feeling the throb of giant engines underfoot. abruptly made a ninety-degree turn and ended at a blank wall. Somewhere beyond it must be the communications room. He retreated and waited. In time the wall snapped open and Hafitz sped out. The young man retreated into the maze of corridors and hoped chance would be on his side. It was. Hafitz went another way. The young man ran back to the wall and used his fingers on it in the combination he had learned. It opened for him. He closed it behind him and blinked at the huge instrument panel which filled almost the entire room. One of the instruments was a color vision screen, tuned in to a #m in which there was a mahogany desk, at which was seated a man in uniform. Behind him was a map of the United States. The man in uniform was a major general in the Air Force. An aide, a lieutenant colonel, was leaning over the desk. He had a sheaf of papers in his hand. The men's conversation was audible. "Messages have been coming in from all over Europe," the colonel was saying. "Here's the way it reconstructs: "Our agent was en route to the rendezvous when he was intercepted by Naomi. That's the only name we have for her. She's a spy. She's worked for half a dozen countries and her present employer could be any one of them. They were spotted as they crossed the frontier between Italy and France. Their car went into a barn and we thought wc had them. But the barn turned out to be a spaceship in disguise. It took off." So I'm their agent, Paul Asher thought. So that's what it's all about. I'm a secret agent for the United States , but they didn't tell me anything about it. This is real George, this is... He expected to hear a faint click and leaned forward experimentally, but nothing happened. He leaned backward. Still nothing. The colonel was answering a question from the general. "We don't know who they are, Sir. They're not from Earth, obviously. And the best scientific minds go still further -- they're not even from our solar system. Whoever they are, it's clear that they don't want us to build a way-station in space." "Those spaceships started buzzing around right after our first Moon trip," the general said. "This is the first time they've become really troublesome -- now that we've got the Moon under control and are ready to build the way-station so we can get to Mars." "That's right, Sir," said the colonel. "Progress is a wonderful thing," said the general. "Things certainly have changed since those early days of strategic atomic bombing and guided missile experiments." "Yes, Sir," said the colonel. The young man in the communications room of the spaceship let his attention wander away from the scene back on Earth and experimented with some of the switches and controls. Trial and error led him to one which lit up a signal on the desk of the general. The general flicked it on. "Yes?" he said. He looked puzzled when he got no picture, just a voice saying, "Hello, hello." "Yes?" he said. "Hello. Speak up, man." "This is your agent aboard the enemy spaceship," said the young man. "Do you read me?" "Yes," said the general. "We read you. Go ahead." "I may not have much time. Get a fix on me if you can. And send hdp." "What's your position?" the general was reacting well. He was alert and all business. "I don't know. I've been taken prisoner, but I'm temporarily free. There isn't much time. Hafitz is bound to be back soon. He seems to be the brains of this outfit -- this part of the outfit, anyway. Naomi is here, too, but I don't know whether she's with them or against them." "Where are the plans, son?" asked the general. "They're safe, for the moment. I can't guarantee for how long." "I'm getting the fix," the colonel said. He was beyond the range of the young man's vision screen. "I've got him. He's still within range, but accelerating fast. We can intercept if we get up a rocket soon enough." "Get it up," ordered the general. "Get up a squadron. Scramble the Moon patrol and send out reserves from Earth at once." "Right!" said the colonel. The young man was so engrossed in the makings of his rescue party that he didn't see the wall open up behind him. There was a squeak of rubber tires and he whirled to see Hafitz, in his wheelchair, slamming toward him. The fat man's hand held a weird-looking gun. The young man recoiled. His back pushed against a row of control buttons. Then everything went white. like a man awakening from a vivid dream. The house lights went on and the manager of the theater came on the stage. He stood in front of the blank master screen with its checkerboard pattern of smaller screens, on which the several lines of action had taken place simultaneously. Paul took off his selectorscope spectacles with the earphone attachments. "Ladies and gentlemen," the manager said. "I regret very much having to announce that this vicarion of the production Spies from Space, was defective. The multifilm has broken and, because of the complexity of the vikie process, it will be impossible to splice it without returning it to the laboratory. "Ushers are at the exits with passes good for any future performance. Those of you who prefer can exchange them at the box office for a full refund of your admission price." Paul Asher unstrapped the wired canvas band from across his chest. He put the selectorscope spectacles into the pouch on the arm of the seat and walked out of the R.K.O. Vicarion into High Street and around the corner to where his car was parked. His roommate at the communapt, MacCloy, was still up when he got there, going over some projectos. Mac snapped off the screen and quickly swept the slides together and into a case. "You're back early," MacCloy said. "The multifilm broke," Paul told him. "Oh." Mac seemed abstracted, as he often did, and again Paul wondered about this man he knew so casually and who had never confided in him about anything -- esspccially about his government job. "So I missed the ending," Paul said. "I guess it was near the end, anyhow. The space patrol was on the way, but the villain, that Hafitz, was just about to blast me with his gun and I don't know how I would have got out of that." "I remember that," Mae said. He laughed. "You must have been Positive all the way through. Like I was when I saw it. If you'd had any negative reac tions -- if you'd leaned hack against the strap instead of forward -- you'd have been at some other point in the multiplot and I wouldn't have recognized that part. Want me to tell you how it ends?" "Go ahead. Then if I do sec it again I'll change the ending somewhere along the line with a leanback." "Okay. There really wasn't much more. It takes so much film to provide all the plot choices that they can't make them very long. "Well, Hafitz blasts me and misses," Mac went on, " -- or blasts you and misses, to keep it in your viewpoint. When you jump back, you set off a bunch of controls. That was the control room, too, not just the communications room. Well, those controls you lean back against take the ship out of automatic pilot and send it into some wild acrobatics and that's why Hafitz misses. Also it knocks him out of the wheelchair so he's helpless and you get his gun. Also you sec that the plans are still there -- right where you put them, stuck to the bottom of his wheelchair." "So that was it." said Paul. "Yes," said Mac. "And then you cover Hafitz while he straightens out the ship and you rendezeous with the space control and they take you all into custody. You get a citation from the government. That's about it. Corny, huh?" "But what about the girl?" Paul asked. "Is she really a spy?" "Girl? What girl?" "Naomi, her name was," Paul said. "You couldn't miss her. She was in the vikie right at the beginning -- that brunette in the fast car." "But there wasn't any girl, Paul," Mac insisted. "Not when I saw it." "Of course there was. There had to be -- the vikics all start out the same way, no matter who sees them." "It beats me, pal. I know I didn't sec her. Maybe you dreamed up the dame." "I don't think so," Paul said. "But of course it's possible." He yawned. "I wouldn't mind dreaming of her tonight, at that. Think I'll turn in now, Mac. I've got that long trip tomorrow, you know. Up to Canada to look over a new line of Marswool sport jackets at the All-Planets Showroom." "Driving or flying?" "The weather prognosis is zerozero. I'll drive." "Good," said Mac. had a confused recollection of a dream. Something about a beautiful brunette giving him a backrub. A look at the chrono sent the dream out of his head and he hurried through shaving and dressing. His car was waiting for him, engine idling, at the curb. He got in, tossing his briefcase and topcoat ahead of him to the far side of the front seat. His back began to itch, insistently, and he rubbed it against the leather upholsters . Paul adjusted the safety belt around him, and fastened it. Might as well do it now, instead of havj ing to fool around with it later Damn that itch, anyway! It was as if something were stuck to his skin -- like a sticking plaster... The high-powered vehicle purred smoothly as it took a long, rising curve. The road climbed steadily toward the inountaintop city ahead. The scene was familiar. The itching of his back spread and became a prickly feeling in the small hairs at the nape of his neck. He knew now that he was not alone in the car. He looked in the rear-view mirror. Naomi. She was looking at him insolently, her wide red mouth in a half smile. She said: "Just keep going. Sweetheart, as fast as you can." Personalities in Si ienre Fresh Fields of Science Are His Home Ground has been accepted and placed in everyday use with amazing rapidity. It is also a concept of tremendous usefulness and awe-inspiring possibilities. The man who coined the word and gave the world the concept is Professor Norbert Weiner of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston. Considered one of the top six mathematicians in the United States, this one-time child prodigy published his study of control and cominunieation in the animal and the machine under the title, Cybernetics, in the early part of #. Within six weeks after the first American printing (it was published first in France), three more printings were necessary because of the unprecedented demand for it from readers of all types. I he hook is beautifully written, lucid, direc t and. despite its complexity, readable by the layman as well as the scientist; it has been said that anyone seriously interested in our eivilization would find it imposiblc to ignore. It is not easy to ignore Weiner himself, either. Norbert Weiner is Norbert Weiner short, heavy, brown-eyed, greying, and bearded; he is also a bundle of nervous energy. Although best known as a mathematician, he is also a physicist, an engineer, and an export in almost all the physical sciences. Just to top it oil, he has a doctor's degree in philosophy. But he scoffs disdainfully at anyone who tails him a genius, and proves his oint by bidding wildly at bridge and playing only mediocre chess. Born in Columbus, Missouri, in #. Weiner was constantly being written up in newspapers because of bis precocity. The family's move halfway across the continent to Massachusetts when he was in his early childhood did little to hamper young Norton's education. He managed to graduate from the local high school at the age of #. and received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Tufts College when he was #. By this time he had had four years of Greek, seven years of Latin, four of German, one of French and a smattering of both Spanish and Chinese in addition to his scientific education. After getting his Master's at I larvard, he took extension courses at Cambridge and Heidelberg. For a while he proceeded to use this magnificent education to earn his living as a high-class hack writer for the Encyclopedia Brittanica. He spent a year as a reporter for the Boston Herald, and between # and # worked at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds, first as a civilian computer and later as a private in the Army. During World War II Weiner worked for the United States Government on the construction of automatically aimed guns, and did research in the guided missile field. When questioned about the latter work he told reporters, "The interchange of ideas which is one of the great traditions of science must receive limitations when the scientist becomes the arbiter of life and death. I realize that I am acting as a censor of my own ideas and may sound arbitrary. If I do not desire to participate in the bombing of defenseless people -- and I do not -- I must take a serious responsibility as to those to whom I disclose my ideas." During his war work Weiner studied the handling of information in highly involved machines such as automatic computers, radar devices, servo mechanisms and others. From the operation of the feedback principle ( which is nicely exemplified by the thermostat) in these devices, and the necessary preoccupation with accuracy rather than efficiency found in their design, it was made evident to Weiner and his fellow workers in the field -- physicists, psychologists, electronics engineers, and researchers from almost every other division of science -- that a similarity existed between such mechanisms and the human brain and nervous system. Cybernetics, which Weiner considered an invasion of the no-man's land betwen established fields, was the natural result. two most important discoveries are less familiar; they arc Generalized Harmonic Analysis and the Universal Taubcrian Theorem. Incredibly involved and difficult to understand, these arc the results of his constant probing into the unknown territories of mathematics. The results of his discoveries are in the newspapers every day, and include not only the electronic brain and automatically tracking guns but also "automatic factories" now being put into use by the chemical industry. As a typical example of control and communication in the machine, Professor Weiner cites the governor of a steam engine, which senses mechanically when the engine is going too fast and reduces the steam supply accordingly. A machine, when instructed to carry out a certain task, will do so -- barring mechanical failure. A man may carry out the task or he may refuse to do so -- for some sound reason, for pure cussedness, or out of sheer laziness. The difference, according to Weiner, "proves the immense superiority of man over the machine." The Professor believes that the great new computers are harbingers of a whole new science of communication and control. So far, they have no senses nr effectors such as arms and legs, but why shouldn't they have in the future? There are all sorts of artificial eyes, ears and fingertips (thermometers, strain gauges, pressure indicators, photoelectric tubes) that may be hooked up to them. The machines already can and do work typewriters to set down answers to the questions fed into them; Weiner insists that they can be built to work valves, switches and other c ontrol devices. Sue h a development, says Weiner, will usher in "the second industrial revolution" there will be wholly automatic factories with artificial brains keeping track of every process. They will order raw materials, inspect them, store them, route them through the plant. Some of the Professor's colleagues call this pure sensationalism. Others acclaim it. In point of fact, the telephone company has already installed computer-type machines that watc h the operations of a dial exchange and total up thesubscribers' hills. It's reasonable to expert many more of Weiner's ideas to beput into use in the near future. He is not only amazingly good at discove ring and developing them, but be is also much better at pointing out the practical possibilities than the average theoretical scientist. His work with machines alone should not be overemphasized, however. He has ideas for improving the iron lung, for instance, by allowing the paralyzed person to control the artific ial breathing apparatus with his own nerve impulses. He believes that someday amputees will be provided with artificial arms and legs with which they can actually feel. He also wants to use electronic brains to gain new and deeper insights into human thinking and various mental and nervous disorders. A list of Norbert Weiner's contributions to mathematics, scientific and philosophical journals totals more than one hundred and reveals better than anything else how widespread his interests are. In these articles he has discussed suc h varied -- and difficult subjects as the postulate theory, the foundation of mathematics, the assemblages and functions of a real variable, probability theory, analysis, Tauberian theorems, mathematical logic, trigonometric expansion, potential theory analysis, relativity, cpistomology and electrical networks. This definitely human thinking machine lives in an unpretentious house in Belmont. Massachusetts, claiming lie has no time for any of the usual pleasures and privileges associated with wealth and prestige. The time and energy he pours into his work, on the other hand, is enormous. He's often tired and preoccupied, and has a few of the typical eccentricities of the famous absent-minded professor. But the truth is exactly the opposite I ; he is very much present in his mind, and through his searchings there he is learning more and more about vour mind and mine!  Harold discovered the time-sphere by a lucky accident. Ilis brother Peter decided to use it selfishly, and laid his plans with extreme care, ''lien there was another accident... By Damon Knight Illustrated by Philip B. Parsons And for dial reason alone, there was no body to find. It sounds like inverted logic -- which, in a sense, it is -- but there's no paradox involved. It was a perfectly orderly and explicable event, even though it could only have happened to a Castellan. Odd fish, the Castcllare brothers. Sons of a Scots-Knglishwoman and an expatriate Italian, born in England, educated on the Continent, they were at ease anywhere in the world and at home nowhere. Nevertheless, in their middle years, they had become settled men. Expatriates like their father, they lived on the island of Ischia, oil the Neapolitan coast, in a palace -- quattrocento, very fine, with peeling eupids on the walls, a multitude of rats, no central heating, and no neighbors. They went nowhere; no one except their agents and their lawyers came to them. Neither had ever married. Each, at about the age of thirty, had given up the world of people for an inner world of more precise and more enduring pleasures. Each was an amateur -- a fanatical, compulsive amateur. They had been born out of their time. Peter's passion was virtu. He collected relentlessly, it would not be too much to say savagely; he collected as some men hunt big game. His taste was catholic, and his acquisitions filled the huge rooms of the palace and half the vaults under them -- paintings, statuary, enamel, porcelain, glass, crystal, metalwork. At fifty, he was a round little man with small, sardonic eyes and a careless patch of pinkish goatee. Harold Castcllare, Peter's talented brother, was a scientist. An amateur scientist. He belonged in the #th century, as Peter was a throwback to a still earlier epoch. Modern science is largely a matter of teamwork and drudgery, both impossible concepts to a Castcllarc. Hut Harold's intelligence was in its own way as penetrating and original as a Newton's or a Franklin's. He had done respectable work in physics and electronics, and had even, at his lawyer's instance, taken out a few patents. The income from these, when his own purchases of instruments and equipment did not consume it, he gave to his brother, who accepted it without gratitude or rancor. Harold, at fifty-three, was spare and shrunken, sallow and spotted, with a bloodless, melancholy countenance on whose upper lip grew a neat hedge of pink-and-salt mustache, the companion piece and antithesis of his brother's goatee. On a certain May morning, Harold had an accident. Goodyear dropped rubber on a hot stove; Archimedes took a bath; Curie left a piece of uranium ore in a drawer with a photographic plate. Harold Castcllarc, working patiently with an apparatus which had so far consumed a great deal of current without producing anything more spectacular than some rather unusual corona effects, sneezed convulsively and dropped an ordinary bar magnet across two charged terminals. Harold, getting up from his instinctive crouch, blinked at it in profound astonishment. As he wat lied, the cloudiness abruptly difiiipM'urcd and hr was looking through the bubble at a section ol tcssclatcd flooring that seemed to be about three feet above the real floor. He could also sec the corner of a carved wooden bench, and on the bench a small, oddly-shaped stringed instrument. Harold swore fervently to himself, made agitated notes, and then began to experiment. He tested tinsphere cautiously with an electroscope, with a magnet, with a Gcigei counter. Negative. He tore a tiny bit of paper from his notepad and dropped it toward the sphere. Tinpaper disappeared; he couldn't see where it went. Speechless, Harold picked up a meter stick and thrust it delicately forward. There was no feeling of contact; the rule went into and through the bubble as if the latter did not exist. Then it touched tinstringed instrument, with a solid click. Harold pushed. The instrument slid over the edge of tinbench and struck the floor with a hollow thump and jangle. Staring at it, Harold suddenly recognized its tantalizinglv familial shape. Recklessly he let go the meter slick, reached in and picked the fragile thing out of the bubble. It was solid and cool in his fingers. The varnish was clear, the color of tinwood glowing through it. It looked as if it might have been made yesterday. Peter owned one almost exactly like it, except for preservation -- a viola d'amore of the #th century. # Harold stooped to look through the bubble horizontally. Gold and rust tapestries hid the wall, fifty feet away, except for an ornate door in I I M i cuter. The door began to open; II iiclil saw .t llickrr ol umber. I lim tin sphi-rr went cloudy again. I I is hands were empty: the viola d'aiuore was gone. And the mi it i stick, which he had dropped inside the sphere, lay on the Hour at his feet. l simply. Peter's eyebrows went up slightly. "What is it, a new kind ol television?" "No. no. Look here." The viola d'.unore lay on the bench, precisely where it had been before. Harold icacbed into the sphere and drew it out. I'elcr started, "(jive me that..." lie took it in his hands, rubbed the smoothly finished wood. He stared  at his brother. "Bv God and all the  saints," he said. "Time travel." Harold snorted impatiently. "My dear Peter, linn ' is ,i meaningless word taken by itsell, just as sp.ti e is. "But, haning that, time travel." " I I you like, yes." "You'll he quite famous." I expei l m. Trier looked down at (he inslruIiient in his hands. "I'd like to keep i his, il I mav." "Td be very happy to let ym, but  t mi can't." As In spoke, the bubble went  loudy: the viola cTainorr was gone like smoke. " There, you see?" "What sint ol devil's triek is ih.it?" "I I goes back... Later voiTIl see. I had that thing out oner before, and this happened. When the spin ir lin anie transparent again, the k was when I had louml it." "And your explanation lor this?" Ilamld hesitated. "None. Until I can wo i k out the appropriate matliemat'h s  hit h mav take you some t  lime Meauwhih , in layman's language Harold's Lire  reused with the ellort and interest ol translation. "Ycia roughly. then I should say it means that  vents are conserved. Two or three centuries ago -- " " I lirec. Noth  the sound-holes." " I luce centuries ago, then, at this panic ular time of dav. someone was in that room. If the viol were gone, he or she would have noticed the fn t. I hat would constitute an alteration ol events already lixed; therefore it doesn't happen. For the same leason, I conjecture', we can't see into tin sphere, or -- " He probed at it with a fountain pen. I thought not or re.ic h into it to tom Ii anything; that would also constitute an alteration. And anything we put into the sphere while   s ii is transparent ionics out again when il becomes opaque. To pul it very ( iiidely, we cannot alter the L n " past. "But it seems to me that we did alter it. Just now, when you took the vol out, even il no one of that time saw it happen." "This." said Ilamld. "is tin difficulty of using language as a means ol ex. u t communication. If you had not forgotten all your calculus -- However. It mav he postulated (remembering that everything I say is a lie, bec ause I sav it in English ) that an eve nt which doe sn't inti ucncc other events is not an event. In other words -- " "That, since no one saw you take it. it doesn't matter whether you took it or not. A rather dangerous precept, Harold; you would have been burned at the stake for that at one time." "Very likclv. Hut it can lxstated in another way, or indeed, in an infinity of ways which only scent to be different. If someone, let us say God, were to remove the moon as I am talking to you, using zero duration, and substitute an exact replica made of concrete and plaster of paris, with the same mass, albedo, and so on as the genuine moon, it would make no measurable difference in the universe as we perceive it -- and therefore we cannot certainly say that it hasn't happened. Nor, I may add, does it make any difference whether it has or not." " -- 'when there's no one about on the quad'," said Peter. "Yes. A basic, and, as a natural consequence, a meaningless problem of philosophy. Except," he added, "in this one particular manifestation." He stared at the cloudy sphere. "You'll excuse me, won't you, Peter? I've got to work on this." "When will you publish, do you suppose?" "Immediately. That's to say, in a week or two." "Don't do it till vou'vc talked it over with me, will you? I have a notion about it." Harold looked at him sharply. "Commercial?" "In a way." "No," said Harold. "This is not the sort of thing one patents, or keeps secret, Peter." "Of course. I'll sec you at dinner, I hope?" "I think so. If I forget, knock on the door, will you?" "Yes. Until then." "Until then." two questions. "Have you found any possibility of changing the time your thing reaches -- from the seventeenth century to the eighteenth, for example, or from Monday to Tuesday?" "Yes, as a matter of fact. Amazing. It's lucky that I had a rheostat already in the circuit; I wouldn't dare turn the current off. Varying the amperage varies the time-set. I've had it up to what I think was Wednesday of last week, at any rate my smock was lying over the workbench where I left it, I remember, Wednesday afternoon. I pulled it out. A curious sensation, Peter -- I was wearing the same smock at the time. And then the sphere went opaque and of course the smock vanished. That must have been myself, coming into the room..." "And the future?" "Yes. Another funny thing, I've had it forward to various times in the near future, and the machine itself is still there, but nothing's been done to it... none of the things I'm thinking I might do. That might be because of the conservation of events, again, but I rather think not. Still farther forward there are cloudy areas, blanks; I can't see anything that isn't in existence now, apparently... but here, in the next few days, there's nothing of that. "It's as if I wore going away. Where do you suppose I'm going?" ture took pi. uc between midnight and morning lie parked his own grip, it would seem, left unattended, and was seen no more. It was extraordinary, of course, that he should have left at all, hut the details were in no wav odd. Harold had alwavs detested what he called "the tyranny of the valet." He was, as everyone knew, a most independent man. On the following day Peter made time-sphere. From the #th century he picked up a scent-bottle of Venetian glass; from the #th, a crucifix of carved rosewood; from the #th, when the palace had been the residence of an Austrian count and his Italian mistress, a handilluminated copy of de Sadr's La Nouvellc Jutinr, very curiously bound in human skin. They all vanished, naturallv, within minutes or hours -- all but the scent-bottle-. This gave Peter matter for reflection. There had been half a dozen lliekers of cloudiness in the sphere just futureward of the bottle; it ought to have vanished, but it hadn't. But then, he had found it on the floor near a wall with quite a large rat-hole in it. When objects disappeared unaccountably, he asked himself, was it because thev had rolled into ratholes -- or because some time fisher had picked them up when they were in a position to do so? He did not make any attempt to explore the future. That afternoon he telephoned his lawyers in Naples and gave them instructions for a new will. His estate, including his half of the jointly-owned Ischia property, was to go to the Italian Government on two conditions; (#) that Harold Castellanwould make a similar I request of the remaining half of the property, and (#) that the Italian Government would turn the palace into a national museum to house Peter's collet lion, using the income from his estate for its administration and for further acquisitions. His surviving relatives, two cousins in Scotland, He did nothing more until after tire document had been brought out to him, signed, and witnessed. Only then did he venture to look into his own future. Events were conserved, Harold had said -- meaning. Peter very well understood, events of the present and future as well as of the past. But was there only one pattern in which the future could he fixed? Could a result exist before its cause had occurred? The Castellanmotto was Audentes furtuna jurat -- into which Peter, at the age of fourteen, had interpolated the word " prudent esque " : "Fortune favors the bold -- and the prudent." Tomorrow': no change; the room he was looking at was so exactly like this one that the time-sphere seemed to vanish. The next day: a cloudy blur. And the next, and the next... Opacity, straight through to what Peter judged, by the distance he had moved the rheostat handle, to hr ten years ahead. Then, suddenly, the room was a long marble hall Idled with display cases. Peter smiled wryly. If you were Harold, obviously you could not look ahead and see Peter working in your laboratory. And if you were Peter, equally obviously, you could not look ahead and know whether the room you saw were an improvement you yourself were going to make, or part of a museum established after your death, eight or nine years from now, or -- No. Eight years was little enough, but he could not even be sure of that. It would, after all, be seven years before Harold could be declared legally dead... Peter turned the vernier knob slowly forward. A flicker, another, a long scries. Forward faster. Now the flickering melted into a grayness; objects winked out of existence and were replaced by others in the showcases; the marble darkened and lightened again, darkened and lightened, darkened and remained dark. He was, Peter judged, looking at the hall as it would be some five hundred years in the fu# turc. There was a thick film of dust on every exposed surface; rubbish and the carcass of some small animal had liecn swept carelessly into a corner. The sphere clouded. When it cleared, there was an intricate trail of footprints in the dust, and two of the showcases were empty. The footprints were splayed, trifurcate, and thirty inches long. Aftrr a moment's deliberation Peter walked around the workbench and leaned down to look through the sphere from the opposite direction. Framed in the nearest of the four tall windows was a scene of picture-postcard banality: the sunsilvered Hay and the foreshortened arc of the city, with Vcsuvio faintly fuming in the background. But there was something wrong about the colors, even grayed as they were by distance. Peter went and got his binoculars. The trouble was, of course, that Naples was green. Where the city ought to have been a rankness had sprouted. Between the clumps of foliage lie could catch occasional glimjjses of gray-white that might equally well have been boulders or the wreckage of buildings. There was no movement. There was no shipping in the harbor. But something rather odd was crawling up the side of the volcano. A rust-orange pipe, it appeared to be, supported on hairline struts like the legs of a centipede, and ending without rhyme or reason just short of the top. While Peter watched, it turned slowly blue. now all the display cases had been looted; the museum, it would seem, was empty. Given, that in five centuries the world, or at any rate the department of Campania, has been overrun by a race of Somethings, the human population being killed or driven out in the process; and that the conquerors take an interest in the museum's contents, which they have accordingly removed. Removed where, and why? This question, Peter conceded, might have a thousand answers, nine hundred and ninety-nine of which would mean that he had lost his gamble. The remaining answer was: to the vaults, for safety. With his own hands Peter built a hood to cover the apparatus on the workbench and the sphere above it. It was unaccustomed labor; it took him the better part of two days. Then he called in workmen to break a hole in the stone (looting next to the interior wall, rig a hoist, and cut the power cable that supplied the time-sphere loose from its supports all the way back to the fuse-box, leaving him a single flexible length of cable more than a hundred feet long. They unbolted the workbench from the floor, attached casters to its legs, lowered it into the empty vault below, and went away. Peter unfastened and removed the hood. He looked into the sphere. Treasure. Crates, large and small, racked in rows into dimness. With pudgy lingers that did not tremble, lie advanced the rheostat. A cloudy flicker, another, a leaping blur of them as he moved the vernier faster -- and then no more, to the limit of the time-sphere's range. Two hundred years, Peter guessed -- A. #). # to # or thereabout -- in which no one would enter the vault. Two hundred years of "unliquidated time." He put the rheostat back to the beginning of that uninterrupted period. He drew out a small crate and prized it open. Chessmen, ivory with gold inlay, Florentine, I #th century. Superb. Another, from the opposite rack. T'ang figurines, horses and men, ten to fourteen inches high. Priceless. Tomaso told him. I le went down to the kitchen to see, and it was true. The pieces lay in the roaring stove untouched. He fished one out with a poker; even the feathery splinters of the unplaned wood had not ignited. It made a certain extraordinary kind of sense. When the moment came for the crates to go back, any physical scrambling that had occurred in the meantime would have no effect; they would simply put themselves together as they had been before, like Thor's goats. Hut burning was another matter; burning would have released energy which could not be replaced. That settled one paradox, at any rate. There was another that nagged at Peter's orderly mind. If the things he took out of that vault, seven hundred-odd years in the future, were to become part of the collection bequeathed by him to the museum, preserved by it, and eventually stored in the vault for him to find -- then precisely where had they come from in the first place? It worried him. Peter had learned in life, as his brother in physics, that one never gets anything for nothing. Moreover this riddle was only one of his perplexities, and that not among the greatest. For another example, there was the obstinate opacity of the time-sphere whenJ Jill ever he attempted to examine the immediate future. However often he tried it the result was always the same: a cloudy blank, all the way forward to the sudden unveiling of the marble gallery. It was reasonable to expect the sphere to show nothing at times when he himself was going to be in the vault, but this accounted for only five or six hours out of every twenty-four. Again, presumably, it would show him no changes to be made by himself, since foreknowledge would make it possible for him to alter his actions. But he laboriously cleared one end of the vault, put up a screen to hide the rest with the vow -- which he kept -- not to alter the clear space or move the screen for a week -- and tried again with the same result. The only remaining explanation was that sometime during the next ten years, something was going to happen which he would prevent if he could; and the clue to it was there, buried in that frustrating unbroken blankness. As a corollary, it was going to be something which he could prevent if only he knew what it was... or even when it was supposed to happen. The event in question, in all probability, was his own death. Peter therefore hired nine men to guard him, three to a shift -- because one man alone could not be trusted, two might conspire against him, whereas three, with the very minimum of effort, could be kept in a state of mutual suspicion . He also underwent a thorough medical examination, had new locks installed on every door and window. and took every other precaution ingenuity could suggest. When he had done all these things, the next ten years were as blank as before. Peter had more than half expected it. He cheeked through his list of safeguards once more, found it good, and thereafter let the matter rest. He had done all he could; either he would survive the crisis or he would not. In either case, events were conserved ; the time-sphere could give him no forewarning. Another man might have found his pleasure blunted by guilt and fear; Peter's was whetted to a keener edge. If he had been a recluse before, now he was an eremite; he grudged every hour that was not given to his work. Mornings he spent in the vault, unpacking his acquisitions; afternoons and evenings, soiling, cataloguing, examining, and -- the word is not too strong -- gloating. When three weeks had passed in this way, the shelves were bare as far as the power cable would allow him to reach in every direction, except for crates whose contents were undoubtedly too large to pass through the sphere. These, with heroic self-control, Peter had left untouched. ' And still lie had looted onlv a hundredth part of that incredible treasure-house. With grappling hooks he could have extended his reach by perhaps three or four yards, but at the risk of damaging his prizes; and in any case this would have been no solution but only a postponement of the problem. There was nothing for it but to go through the sphere himself, and unpack the crales while on the other "side" of it. a fury of concentration for the rest of the day. So far as he was concerned there was no question that the gain would be worth any calculated risk; the problem was how to measure the risk and if possible reduce it. Item: he felt a definite uneasiness at the thought rtf venturing through that insubstantial bubble. Intuition was supported, if not by logic, at least by a sense of the dramatically appropriate. Now, if ever, would be the time for his crisis. Item: common sense did not concur. The uneasiness had two symbols. One was the white face of his brother Harold just before the water closed over it; the other was a phantasm born of those gigantic, splayed footprints in the dust of the gallery. In spite of himself, Peter had often found himself trying to imagine what the creatures that made them must look like, until his visualization was so clear that he could almost swear lie had seen them. Towering monsters they were, with crested ophidian heads and great unwinking eyes; and they moved in a strutting glide, nodding their heads, like fantastic barnyard fowl... But, taking these premonitory' images in turn; first, it was impossible that he should ever be seriously inconvenienced by Harold's death. There were no witnesses; he was sure; he had struck the blow with a stone; stones also were the weights that had dragged the body down, and the rope was an odd length Peter had picked up on the shore. Second, the three-toed Somethings might be as fearful as all the world's bogies put together ; it made no difference, he could never meet them. Nevertheless, the uneasiness persisted; Peter was not satisfied; he wanted a lifeline. When he found it, he wondered that he had not thought of it before. He would set the time-sphere for a period just before one of the intervals of blankness. That would take care of accidents, sudden illnesses, and other unforeseeable contingencies. It would also insure him against one very real and not at all irrational dread: the fear that the mechanism which generated the time-sphere might fail while he was on the other side. For the conservation of events was not a condition created by the sphere but one which limited its operation. No matter what happened, it was impossible for him to occupy the same placetime as any future or past observer; therefore, when the monster entered that vault, Peter would not be there any more. There was, of course, the scentbottle to remember. Every rule has its exception; but in this case, Peter thought, the example did not apply. A scent-bottle rould roll into a rathole; a man could not. He turned the rheostat carefully back to the last flicker of grayncss; past that to the next, still more carefully. The interval between the two, he judged, was something under an hour: excellent. His pulse s-emcd a trifle rapid, but his brain was clear and cool. He thrust his head into the sphere and sniffed cautiously. The air was stale and had a faint, unpleasant odor, but it was breathable. Using a crate as a stepping-stool, he climbed to the top of the workbench. He arranged another close to the sphere to make a platform level with its equator. And seven and a half centuries in the future, a third crate stood on the floor directly under the sphere. Peter stepped into the sphere, dropped, and landed easily, legs bending to take the shock. When he straightened, he was standing in what to all appearances was a large circular hole in the workbench; his chin was just above the top of the sphere. He lowered himself, half-squatting, until lie had drawn his head through and stepped down from the crate. He was in the future vault. The sphere was a brightly luminous thing that hung unsupported in the air behind him, its midpoint just higher than his head. The shadows it cast spread black and wedgeshaped in every direction, melting into obscurity. Peter's heart was pounding miserably. He had an illusory stifling sensation, coupled with the idiotic notion that lie ought to he wearing a diver's helmet. The silence was like the pause before a shout. But down the aisles marched the crated treasures in their hundreds. Peter set to work. It was difficult, exacting labor, opening the crates where they lay, removing the contents and nailing the crates up again, all without disturbing the positions of the cratis themselves, but it was the price he had to pay for his lifeline. Each crate was in a sense a microcosm. like the vault itself -- a capsule of unliquidated time. But the vault's term would end some fifty minutes from now, when crested heads nodded down these aisles; those of the crates' interiors, for all that Peter knew to the contrary, went on forever. The first crate contained lacework porcelain; the second, shakudo sword-hilts; the third, an exquisite #th-ccntury Greek ornament in repousse bronze, the equal in every way of the Siris bronzes. # w Peter found it almost physically difficult to set the thing down, but he did so; standing on his platformcrate in the future with his head projecting above the sphere in the present -- like (again the absurd thought!) a diver rising from the ocean -- he laid it carefully beside the others on the workbench. Then down again, into the fragile silence and the gloom. The next crates were too large, and those just beyond were doubtful. Peter followed his shadow down the aisle. He had almost thirty minutes left:  enough for one more crate, chosen with care, and an ample margin. Glancing to his right at the end of the row, he saw a door. It was a heavy door, rivetstudded, with a single iron step below it. There had been no door there in Peter's time; the whole plan of the building must have been altered. Of course!, he realized suddenly. If it had not, if so much as a single tile or lintel had remained of the palace as he knew it, then the sphere could never have let him see or enter this particular here-and-now, this -- what would Harold have called it -- this nexus in space-time. For if you saw any now-existing tiling as it was going to appear in the future, you could alter it in the present -- carve your initials in it, break it apart, chop it down -- which was manifestly impossible, and therefore... And therefore the first ten years were necessarily blank when he looked into the sphere, not because anything unpleasant was going to happen to him, but because in that time the last traces of the old palace had not yet been eradicated. There was no crisis. Wait a moment, though! Harold had been able to look into the near future... But -- of course -- Harold had been about to die. In the dimness between Peter and the door he saw a rack of crates that looked promising. The way was uneven; one of the untidy accumulations of refuse that seemed to be characteristic of the Somethings lay in windrows across the floor. Peter stepped forward carefully -- but not carefully enough. H arold castellare had had another accident -- and again, if you choose to look at it in that way, a lucky one. The blow stunned him; the old rope slipped from the stones; flaccid, he floated where a struggling man might have drowned. A fishing boat nearly ran him down and picked him up instead, suffering from a concussion, shock, exposure, and asphyxiation and more than three-quarters dead... But he was still alive when he was delivered, an hour later, to a hospital in Naples. There were of course no identifying papers, labels or monograms in his clothing -- Peter had seen to that -- and for the first week after his rescue Harold was quite genuinely unable to give any account of himself. During the second week he was mending but uncommunicative, and at the end of the third, finding that there was some difficulty about gaining his release in spite of his physical recovery, he affected to recover his memory, gave a circumstantial but entirely fictitious identification and was discharged. To understand this as well as all his subsequent actions, it is only necessary to remember that Harold was a Castellare. In Naples, not wishing to give Peter any unnecessary anxiety, he did not approach his bank for funds but cashed a check with an incurious acquaintance, and predated it by four weeks. With part of the money so acquired he paid his hospital bill and rewarded his rescuers. Another part went for new clothing and for four days' residence in an inconspicuous hotel, while he grew used to walking and dressing himself again. The rest, on his last day, he spent in the purchase of a discreetly small revolver and a box of cartridges. He took the last boat to Ischia, and arrived at his own front door a few minutes before eleven. It was a cool evening, and a most cheerful fire was burning in the central hafl. "Signor Peter is well, I suppose," said Harold, removing his coat. "Yes, Signor Harold. He is very well, very busy with his collection." "Where is he? I should like to speak to him." "He is in the vaults, Signor Harold. But -- " "Yes?" "Signor Peter sees no one when he is in the vaults. He has given strict orders that no one is to bother him, Signor Harold, when he is in the vaults." "Oh, well," said Harold. "I daresay he'll see me." like a bear trap, apparently, except that instead of two semicircular jaws it had four segments that snapped together in the middle, each with a shallow, sharp tooth. The pain was quite unendurable. Each segment moved at the end of a thin arm, cunningly hinged so that the ghastly thing would close over whichever ol the four triggers you stepped on. Each arm had a spring too powerful for Peter's muscles. The whole affair was connected by a chain to a staple solidly embedded in the concrete floor: it left Peter free to move in any direction a matter of some ten inches. Short of gnawing oil his own leg. he thought sickly, there was very little lie could do about it. The riddle was. what could the thing possibly be doing here? There were rats in the vaults, no doubt, now as in his own time, but surely nothing larger. Was it conceivable that even the threetoed Somethings would set an engine like this to catch a rat? Lost inventions, Peter thought irrelevantly, had a way of being rediscovered. Even if he suppressed the time-sphere during his lifetime and it did not happen to survive him, still there might be other timefishers in the remote future -- not here, perhaps, but in other treasurehouses of the world. And that might account for the existence of this metal-jawed horror. Indeed, it might account for the vault itself -- a better man-trap -- except that it was all nonsense, the trap could only be full until the trapper came to look at it. Events, and the lives of prudent time-travelers, were conserved. And lie had been in the vault for almost fortv minutes. Twenty minutrs to go, twenty-five, thirty at the most, then the Somethings would enter and their entrance would free him. He had his lifeline; the knowledge was the only thing that made it possible to live with the pain that was the center of his universe just now. It was like going to the dentist, in the bad old days before procaine; it was very bad, sometimes. but you knew that it would end. He rocked his head toward the door, holding his breath. A distant thud, another, then a curiously unpleasant squeaking, then silence. But he had heard them. He knew they were there. It couldn't be much longer now. lean, were playing cards in the passageway in front of the closed door that led to the vault staircase. They got up slowly. "Who is he?" demanded the shortest one. Tomaso clattered at him in furious Sicilian; the man's face darkened. but he looked at Harold with respect. "I am now," stated Harold, "going down to see my brother." "No, signor," said the shortest one positively. "You are impertinent," Harold told him. "Yes, signor." Harold frowned. "You will not let me pass?" "No, signor." "Then go and tell my brother I am here." The shortest one said apologetically but firmly that there were strict orders against this also; it would have astonished Harold very much if he had said anything else. "Well, at least I suppose you can tell me how long it will be before he comes out?" "Not long, signor. One hour, no more." "Oh, very well, then," said Harold pettishly, turning half away. He paused. "One thing more," he said, taking the gun out of his pocket as he turned, "put your hands up and stand against the wall there, will you ?" The first two complied slgwly. The third, the lean one, fired through his coat pocket, just like the gangsters in the American movies. It was not a sharp sensation at all. Harold was surprised to find: it was more as if someone had hit him in the side with a cricket bat. The racket seemed to bounce interminably from the walls. He felt the gun jolt in his hand as he fired back, but couldn't tell if he had hit anybody. Everything seemed to be happening very' slowly, and yet it was astonishingly hard to keep his balance. As he swung around he saw the two stockv ones with their hands half inside their jackets, and the lean one with his mouth open, and Tomaso with bulging eyes. Then the wall came at him and he began to swim along it, paying particular attention to the problem of not dropping one's gun. As he weathered the first turn in the passageway the roar broke out afresh. A fountain of plaster stung his eyes; then he was running clumsily, and there was a bedlam of shouting behind him. Without thinking about it he seemed to have selected the laboratory as his destination, it was an instinctive choice, without much to recommend it logically, and in any case, he realized halfway across the central hall, he was not going to get there. He turned and squinted at the passageway entrance; saw a blur move and fin'd at it. It disappeared. He turned again awkwardly and had taken two steps nearer an armchair which offered the nearest shelter when something clubbed him between the shoulderblades. One step more, knees buckling, and the wall struck him a second, softer blow. He toppled, clutching at the tapestry that hung near the fireplace. whose names were Enrico, Alberto and Luca, emerged cautiously from the passage and approached Harold's body it was already flaming like a viking's in its impromptu shroud; the dim horses and men and falcons of the tajM-stry were writhing and crisping into certain ring of fire wavered toward them across the carpet. Although the servants came with fire extinguishers and with buckets of water from the kitchen, and although the fire department was called, it was all quite useless. In five minutes the whole room was ablaze, in ten, as windows burst and walls buckled, the fire engulfed the second story. In twenty a mass of flaming timbers dropped into the vault through the hole Peter had made in the floor of the laboratory, utterly destroying the time-sphere apparatus and reaching shortly thereafter, as the authorities concerned were lalei to agree, an intensity of heat entirely sufficient to #  consume a human body without leaving any identifiable trace. For that reason alone, there was no trace of Peter's body to be found. again when Peter saw the light from the lime-sphere turn ruddy and then wink out like a snuffed candle. In the darkness, he heard the IF you know... instruments, with a brief description of each. Can you mnnh up at least six of them correctly for a passing score? Seven to nine is good; # excellent. The answers are on page I #. #. (a) #. (b) #. (c) #. () #. (c) #. (f) #. (g) #. (h) #. (i) #. (j) any instrument for measuring the intensity of light, one for measuring a lower temperature than the ordinary mercury-thermometer will indicate, it measures strength of X-rays, an instrument for registering the form of electric waves, for measuring solar radiation, one for testing the scope of the field of vision. is used to measure the keenness of the sense of smell, a telescopic photographic instrument for taking pictures of the sun (as during an eclipse), an instrument for recording tinrotations of a wheel, measures high degrees of heat. The Road to Space the corner; there are many problems to be solved yet, but clues to their solutions are becoming abundant. When manned rockets burst out of Earth's atmosphere, and when they land on the moon and the planets, they will probably carry special equipment the design of which has been influenced by the conquerors of Mount Everest, Sir Edmund Hillary and his Sherpa tribesman guide, Tenzing Bhutia. Special oxygen equipment will be a must, for instance, and the Everest expedition earned the lightest and most efficient breathing apparatus ever designed. Even so, Col. Sir John Hunt, the expedition's leader, said it had to be even better for future trips, and improvements are undoubtedly on the way. Vacuum packs compressed the expedition's food rations into solid wedges, which reverted to their normal form (including cereals, cheese, tea, coffee, lemonade, sugar sweets and pemmican) when seals on the packs were broken. Thus, for the first time, a properly balanced diet was carried to really high altitudes. Tents were of a new material, a specially woven light-weight mixture of cotton and nylon. Boots for the final assault had to be very light and easy to put on in the ra reified atmosphere, but also very warm and strong. Those used had a glace kid outer surface, an inner insulation of fiber surounded by a lining of waterproof fabric, inner soles of leather with lightweight rubberized fabric backing, an inner sock of plastic fiber, and an outer sole of rubber reinforced with synthetic resin aerated for lightness. Walkic talkie sets weighing only five pounds were carried. The equipment used by space travelers may bear no exact resemblance to that described here, but the techniques that will be used in making that equipment arc being discovered and used right now! The Weatherman Says platform idea has come from Dr. Harry Wexlcr, chief of the Scientific Services Division of the United States Weather Bureau. Dr. Wexlcr points out that the sun is of course responsible for our weather, but that "there arc many things in our atmosphere that interfere with solar radiation." He listed particularly dust and the amount of carbon dioxide, but excluded atom bombs, which "dissipate too quickly." What we need. Dr. Wexlcr continues, is "instruments close enough to the sun to measure the variations of solar radiation." Comparing these with ground measurements, we could learn the precise effect of the atmospheric resistance -- after which wc could proceed to change the composition of the atmosphere in order to change the weather, if we wished. And the obvious conclusion, the way to get the necessary instruments above tinatmosphere, is to get that much-discussed space platform into operation! Dr. Wexlor is convinced that we'll do so one of these davs. Dr. Wexler also points out that the Earth has become hotter. This is supported by the work of phsicist Gilbert N. I 'lass of The Johns Hopkins University, who has reealeuluted the opacity of carbon dioxide to long-wave heat radiation and found it to be much greater than formerly believed. With so much m industrial activity adding carbon dioxide to the air, the result is a greenhouse effect in which shortwave heat arrives from the sun but longer heat waves are prevented from escaping the Earth. Plass figures that the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will be doubled by the year #, and that this will raise the Earth's temperature by about four per eent. 'I 'h is will also lessen the temperature differential between the tops and bottoms of clouds, weakening the convection currents responsible for rainfall. If this happens, the weather will definitely be clearer and drier. Tragedy Unearthed ble tragedy of the sudden burial of the Roman city of Pompeii in # A.D. should become an advantage to modern archaeologists -- but it has. The very nature of the catastrophe has made it invaluable in the accumulation of historical relics from this spot. When the unfortunate city with its # citizens was abruptly engulfed under volcanic ash, resulting from the tremendous eruption of Mt. Vesuvius, important works of art and science, as well as articles of everyday life, were preserved for future historians. These ditl not suffer the inroads of slow destruction by the elements, as normally occurs. The volcanic ash mixed with the rain as it fell and hardened to form perfect casts, preserving victims' features immediately after death. Even minute facial features of the Pompeiians were kept intact. By pouring plaster into the cavity formed in the volcanic ash where a victim was buried, a lifelike duplication of the person's appearance nearly #)# years ago is possible. Excavations were first started on this spot in #, and digging has been continued off and on with many interruptions. Since that time, over # per cent of the overlay of ash from the volcano's eruption has been removed. Watch the Fishie! designed especially for photographing underwater life at night has been put into operation off the Florida Revs by the National Geographic Society. Called the aquascope, this new diving chamber consists of a flat lank seven feet long by five feet wide and #' inches high. There is room inside for two men with color cameras, high voltage power equipment and bright lights. Constructed of armorplate steel, the aquascopc looks like something out of science fiction. It narrows at one end like a lobster's tail, and there arc two side windows that extend outwards like metallic claws containing floodlights. A long stainless steel "feeler" extending above the photographed area carries a third set of lights. The device is designed to photograph underwater night life at depths of # to # feet. Using it, the photographers lie prone on air mattresses in perfect comfort. Bright but brief flashes of light apparently do not disturb the fish, and no telltale air bubbles emerge from the aquascopc since outgoing air is returned to the surface by hose. Even a fish has no privacy these days! Triple Threat Genes that may help explain the cause of several diseases, including cancer, has been advanced by Dr. David M. Bonner, research associate in microbiology at Yale University. The main difference from former ideas on the subject is that Dr. Bonner believe genes -- the tiny particles in the body that govern individual characteristics -- may have three functional parts instead of only one. The single-function hypothesis held that the gene controlled a specific type of reaction within the cell. Now Dr. Bonner has demonstrated that each gene also controls the time and rate of speed of such reactions. If anv one of these three functions is upset, a serious change results in the body's biochemical reactions. It's interesting to note that it was Dr. Bonner himself, in company with other scientists, who established the earlier theory eight years ago. Science keeps advancing largely beto re-examine their own ideas! Measuring by Sound vices for measuring the flow of fluids often altered that flow by their own presence. This disadvantage has been overcome in a new instrument developed by the National Bureau of Standards. It does the job by sound waves. A transmitter sends an impulse to a rereceiver a short distance along the line of flow, and the speed of the current is found by its effect on the speed of the sound. Thus the rate of flow of liquids in tubes, speeds of boats in the water, and even minute air currents can be measured easily and accurately. #-D For Good Eyesight? sional movies haven't gotten around to ballyhooing this in their advertising, but some experts claim that the widespread appearance of such films may raise the level of eyesight of the entire world. According to the calculations of R. A. Sherman, a Bausch  Lomb Optical Co. visual specialist, between # and # per cent of the public now have eye problems of wlii 'll flit  .n mi.iu.uf ami aboul whi !i II It . nil Im il hibi time vituiim a-#) movies. #  I hr ryes of sin !i movie-goers ran then Imtrained to lessen or eliminate these diflirulties. of propet ly produced. projeeted and viewed stereo motion pinnies will he profound." Sherman has stall'd. "Dircctlv and indirectly, viewing nl trui I ihree-diim nsional pietnres will improve visual prrjoruiaiiee and therehv improve the general well-being ol hundreds of thousands of individuals with good rvrsight. #'ui thci more, additional llmiiN.tmls with iiiMiflii irnt visit. il skills will Im stimulated l irt  u Irssional ct tare. which. in turn. m will rrsult in mme rlliriciit and satislaelorv vision fni them' So rven it you don't enjov (In movies oidinuiilv. vou our it to yourself to srr st me !-l) pit lures. Vour evt b tnav he the winnei ! # # .lnorN to # -- d; # -- g; # -- f : I -- j ; #h: # -- b; # -- i: Ba; # -- e; # -- c. New York. #. (#c and #.(Ml.j Arthur (!. Clarke is In st known to the puhlie at large as an expert on roekriry and spaceflight, hut science Imion readeis know him equal Iv well as a fit tioti wiiter with a disum tiv lv quiet and el lei live stv le. Ills seieutilie haikgroimd. ol t ourse. helps make his stories outstanding, hut hi ability to make li is i ha rat ters thundei nicks to achieve credibility have also eontrihuted to his popularity. In ( hihlhnotl'  End he has taken another step forward. While it rout. tins enough new ideas and new slants on old ideas to satisfy tin most tiioi. Highly spai cw.irprd fan. it ran also he iccomniended to new readers, sinee it stalls in a iei ogniahlinearluture and gradually, convincingly shows the changes in humanity and civilization that ikcui undei #(Hi years ol domination by the alien "Overlords." The plot is one that can't and shouldn't he summed up in a review. Naturally, sin h a theme has limitations: no one human character c an be "hero' or e ve n heroine vitallv important to the reader. This makes for remoteness, hut still the hook is an admirable accomplishment and a thrill to read. Shure and begorra, it was a great day for the Earth! The fust envoy from another world was about to speak -- that is, if he could forget that horse for a minute... off course By Mack Reynolds Illustrated by Kelly Freas Dermott and Tim Casey of the State Highway Patrol. They assumed they were witnessing the crash of a new type of Air Force plane and slipped and skidded desperately across the field to within thirty feet of the strange craft, only to discover that the landing had been made without accident. Patrolman Dermott shook his head. "They're gettin' queerer looking every year. Get a load of it no wheels, no propeller, no ccx'kpit." They left the ear and made thenway toward the strange egg-shaped vessel. Tim Casey loosened his .# in its holster and said. "Sure and I'm beginning to wonder if it's one of ours. No insignia and -- " A circular door slid open at that point and Dameri Tass stepped out, yawning. He spotted them, smiled and said, "Glork." They gaped at him. "Glork is right," Dermott swallowed. Tim Casey elosed his mouth with an effort. "Do vou mind the color of his faro?" he blurted. "How could I help it?" Dameri Tass rubbed a blue-nailed pink hand down his purplish countenance and yawned again. "Gorra inanigan horp soratium," he said. Patrolman Dermott and Patrolman Casey shot stares at each other. "'Tis double talk he's after givin' us," Casey said. Dameri 'Pass frowned. "Harama?" he asked. Larry Dermott pushed his cap to the back of his head. "That doesn't sound like any language I've even heard about." Dameri Tass grimaced, turned and reentered his spacecraft to emerge in half a minute with his hands full of contraption. He held a box-like arrangement under his left arm: in his right hand were two metal caps connected to the box by wires. While the patrolmen watched him, he set the box on the ground. twirled two dials and put one of the caps on his head. He offered dumber to Larry Dennot; his desire was obvious. Trained to grasp a situation and immediately respond in manner best suited to protect the welfare of the people of New York Stale, Dermott cleared his throat and said. "Tim, take over while I report." "Hey!" Casey protested, but his fellow minion had left. "Mandaia," Dameri Tass told Casey, holding out the metal cap. "Faith, an' do I look balmy?" Casey told him. "I wouldn't be puttin' that dingus on my head for all the colleens in Ireland." "Mandaia," the stranger said impatiently. "Bejasus," Casey snorted, "ye can't -- " Dermott called from the car. "Tim. the captain says to humor this guy. We're to keep him here until the officials arrive." T'iin Casey closed his eves and # # groaned. "Humor him, he's after savin'. Orders it is." He shouted hack. "Sure an' did vc tell 'em he's in technicolor? Bcgorra, he looks like a man from Mars." "That's what they think," Larry yelled, "and the governor is on his way. We're to do everything possible short of violence to keep this character here. Humor him. Tim!" "Mandaia," Dameri Tass snapped, pushing the cap into Casey's reluctant hands. Muttering his protests, Casey lifted it gingerly and placed it on his head. Not feeling any immediate effect, he said. "There, 'tis satisfied ye arc now. I'm supposin'." The alien stooped down and I liclird a switch on the little box. It hummed gently. Tim Casey surdcnly shrieked and sat down on the stubble and grass of the field. "Bcgorra," he yelped, "I've been murthered!" He tore the cap from his head. His companion came running, "What's the matter, Tim?" he shouted. Dameri Tass removed the metal cap from his own head. "Sure, an' nothin' is after bein' the matter with him," he said. "Evidently the bhoy has niver been a-wcarin' of a kcrit helmet afore. 'Twill hurt him not at all." blurted, skidding to a stop. Dameri Tass shrugged. "Faith an' why not? As I was after sayin, I shared the kerit helmet with Tim Casey." Patrolman Dermott glared at him unbelievingly. "You learned the language just by sticking that Rube Goldberg deal on Tim's head?" "Sure, an' why not?" Dermott muttered, "And with it he has to pick up the corniest brogue west of Dublin." T im Casey got to his feet indignantly. "I'm after resentin' that, Larry Dermott. Sure, an' the way we talk in Ireland is -- " Dameri Tass interrupted, pointing to a bedraggled horse that had made its way to within fifty feet of the vessel. "Now what could that be after bein'?" The patrolmen followed his stare. "It's a horse. What else?" "A horse?" Larry Dermott looked again, just to make sure. "Yeah -- not much of a horse, but a horse." Dameri Tass sighed ecstatically. "And jist what is a horse, if I may be so bold as to be askin'?" "It's an animal you ride on." The alien tore his gaze from the animal to look his disbelief at the other. "Arc you after mcanin' that you climb upon the craturc's back and ride him? Faith now, quit your blarney." He looked at the horse again, then down at his equipment. "Bcgorra," he muttered, "I'll share the kcrit helmet with the craturc." "Hey, hold it," Dermot said anxiously. He was beginning to feel like a character in a shaggy dog story. Interest in the horse was ended with the sudden arrival of a helicopter. It swooped down on the field and settled within twenty feet  of the alien craft. Almost before it had touched, the door was flung open and the flying windmill disgorged two bestarred and efficientlooking Army officers. Casey and Dermott snapped them a salute. The senior general didn't take his eyes from the alien and the spacecraft as he spoke, and they bugged quite as effectively as had those of the patrolmen w'hcn they'd first arrived on the scene. "I'm Major General Browning," he rapped. "I want a police cordon thrown up around this, er, vessel. No newsmen, no sightseers, nobody without my permission. As soon as Army personnel arrives, we'll take over completely." "Yes, sir," Larry Dermott said. "I just got a rcjjort on the radio that the governor is on his way, sir. How about him?" The general muttered something under his breath. Then, "When the w governor arrives, let me know; otherwise, nobody gets through!" Damcri lass said, "Faith, and what goes on?" The general's eves bugged still further. "He talks!" he accused. "Yes, sir," Dcrmott said. "He had some kind of a machine. He put it over Tim's head and seconds later he could talk." "Nonsense!" the general snapped. Further discussion was interrupted by the screaming arrival of several motorcycle patrolmen tollowed by three heavily laden patrol cars. Overhead, pursuit planes zoomed in and began darting about nervously above the field. # "Sure, and it's quite a reception I'm after gettin'," Dameri l ass said. He yawned. "Hut what I'in wantin' is a chance to get sonic sleep. Faith, an' I've been awake for almost a decal. r helicopter, to Washington. There he disappeared for several days, being held incommunicado while White House, Pentagon, State Department and Congress tried to figure out just what to do with him. Never in the history of the planet had such a furor arisen. Thus far, no newspapermen had been allowed within speaking distance. Administration higher-ups were being subjected to a volcano of editorial heat but the longer the space alien was discussed the more they viewed with alarm the situation his arrival had I # precipitated. There were angles that hadn't at hist been evident. Obviously lie was from some civilization far bevond that of Earth'. That was the rub. No matter what he said, it would shake governments, possibly overthrow social systems, perhaps even destroy established religious concepts. But they couldn't keep him under wraps indefinitely. It was the United Nations that cracked the iron curtain. Their demands that the alien he heard liefore their bodv were too strong and had too much public opinion behind them to be ignored. The White House yielded and the date was set for the visitor to speak before the Assembly. Excitement, anticipation, blanketed the world. Shepherds in Sinland, fakirs in Pakistan, gauchos in the Argentine were raised t a zenith of expectation. Panhandlers debated the message to conic with pedestrians; jinrikisha men argued it with their passengers; miners discussed it deep beneath the surface; pilots argued with their co-pilots thousands of feet above. It was the most universally awaited event of the ages. By the time the delegates from every nation, tribe, religion, class, color, anil race had gathered in New York to receive the message from the stars, the majority of Earth had decided that Dameri Tass was the plenipotentiary of a super-civilization which had been viewing developments on this planet with misgivings. It was thought this other civilization had advanced gicatly beyond Earth's and that the problems besetting us -- social, economic, scientific -- had been solved by the super-civilization. Obviously, then, Damcri Tass had come, an advisor from a benevolent and friendly people, to guide the world aright. And nine-tenths of the population of Earth stood ready and willing to be guided. The other tenth liked things as they were and were quite convinced that the space envoy would upset their applecarts. tary-General of the U.N., was to introduce the space emissary. "Can you give me an idea at all of what he is like?" he asked nervously. President McCord was as upset as the Dane. He shrugged in agitation. "I know almost as little as you do." Sir Alfred Oxford protested, "Rut my dear chap, you've had him for almost two weeks. Certainly in that time -- " The President snapped back, "You probably won't believe this, but lie's been asleep until yesterday. When he first arrived he told us he hadn't slept for a decal, whatever that is; so we held off our discussion with him until morning. Well -- he didn't awaken in the morning, nor the next. Six days later, fearing something was wrong we woke him." "What happened?" Sir Alfred asked. The President showed embarrassment. "He used some rather ripe Irish profanity on us, rolled over, anti went bark to sleep." Viljalmar Andersen asked, "Well, what happened yesterday?" "We actually haven't had time to S uestion him. Among other things, tere's been some controversy about whose jurisdiction he comes under. The State Department claims the Army shouldn't -- " The Secretary General sighed deeply. "Just what did he do?" "The Secret Service reports he spent the day whistling Mother Machrec and playing with his dog, cat and mouse." "Dog, cat and mouse? I say!" blurted Sir Alfred. The President was defensive. "He had to have some occupation, and lie seems to be particularly interested in our animal life. He wanted a horse but compromised for the others. I understand he insists all three of them come with him wherever he goes." "I wish we knew what he was going to say," Andersen worried. "Here he comes," said Sir Alfred. Surrounded by F.B.I. men, Dameri Tass was ushered to the speaker's stand. He had a kitten in his arms; a Scotty followed him. The alien frowned worriedly. "Sure," he said, "and what kin all this be? Is it some ordinance I've been after breakin'?" McCord, Sir Alfred and Andersen hastened to reassure him and made him comfortable in a chair. Viljalmar Andersen faced the thousands in the audience and held up his hands, but it was ten minutes before he was able to quiet the cheering, stamping delegates from all Earth. Finally: "Fellow Tcrrans, I shall not take your time for a lengthy introduction of the envoy from the stars. I will only say that, without doubt, this is the most important moment in the history of the human race. We will now hear from the first being to come to Earth from another world." He turned and gestured to Damcri Tass who hadn't been paying over much attention to the chairman in view of some dog and cat hostilities that had been developing about his feet. But now the alien's purplish face faded to a light blue. He stood and said hoarsely. "Faith, an' what was that last you said?" Viljalmar Andersen repeated, "We will now hear from the first being ever to come to Earth from another world." The face of the alien went a lighter blue. "Sure, and' ye wouldn't jist be frightenin' a body, would ye? You don't mean to tell me this planet isn't after bein' a member of the Galactic League?" Andersen's face was blank. "Galactic League?" "Cushlainachree," Dameri Tass moaned. "I've gone and put me foot in it again. I'll be after getting kert for this." Sir Alfred was on his feet. "I don't understand! Do you mean you aren't an envoy from another planet?" Dameri Tass held his head is his hands and groaned. "An envoy, he's savin', and mesclf only a second rate collector of specimens for the Carthis zoo." He straightened and started off the speaker's stand. "Sure, an' I must blast off immediately." Things were moving fast for President McCord but already an edge of relief was manifesting itself. Taking the initiative, he said, "Of course, of course, if that is your desire." I le signaled to the bodyguard who had accompanied the alien to the assemblage. A dull roar was beginning to emanate from the thousands gathered in the tremendous hall, murmuring, questioning, disbelieving. he must say something. He extended a detaining hand. "Now you are here," he said urgently, "even though by mistake, before you go can't you give us some brief word? Our world is in chaos. Many of us have lost faith. Perhaps... Dameri Tass shook off the restraining hand. "Do I look daft? Begorry, I should have been a-knowin something was queer. All your weapons and your strange ideas. Faith, I wouldn't be surprised if yc hadn't yet established a planetwide government. Sure, an' I'll go still further. Ye probably still have wars on this benighted world. No wonder it is yc haven't been invited to join the Galactic League an' take your place among the civilized planets." He hustled from the rostrum and made his way, still surrounded by guards, to the door by which he had entered. The dog and the cat trotted after, undismayed by the furor about them. They arrived about four hours later at the field on which he'd landed, and the alien from space hurried toward his craft, still muttering. He'l been accompanied by a general and by tire President, but all the wav he had refrained from speaking. He scurried from the car and toward the spacecraft. President MeGord said, "You've forgotten your pets. We would be glad if you would accept them as -- " The alien's face faded a light blue again. "Faith, an' I'd almost forgotten," he said. "If I'd taken a craturc from this quarantined planet, my name'd be tiork. Keep your dog and your kitty." I #e shook his head sadly and extracted a mouse from a pocket. "An' this amazin' little craturc as well." They followed him to the space craft. Just before entering, he spotted the bedraggled horse that had been present on his landing. A longing expression came over his highly colored face. "Jist one thing," he said. "Faith now', were they pullin' my leg when they said vou w-ere after ridin' on the back of those things?" The President looked at the woebegone nag. "It's a horse," he said, surprised. "Man has been riding them for centuries." Damcri Tass shook his head. "Sure an' 'twould've been my makin' if I could've taken one back to Carthis." He entered his vessel. The others drew back, out of range of the expected blast, and watched, each with his own thoughts, as the first visitor from space hurriedly left Earth. short novel by one of the most popular and talented writers in the field, Sam Merwin Jr., entitled The Ambassador. Here you'll find an intriguing situation, replete with action, romance and humor -- and a grim problem you'll twist your wits trying to solve. The scene is a future in which Earth is ruled by computing machines and entangled in eccentric notions -- just for instance, it's the height of politeness to make yourself as ugly as possible! There's a cast of unique people, including a multitude of spies and plotters, two mysterious and beautiful women, and Ambassador Zalcn Lindsay, the strikingly human Man-from-Mars who must straighten out the tottering mess or see two worlds perish. This stellar performance will be backed up by the best work of such top-notch writers as Robert Abernathy, James McKimmey Jr., Frank M. Robinson and many others. There will also be the first of a series of articles designed to acquaint you entertainingly with the scientific facts of today and possibilities of tomorrow. January #th is the date the March issue goes on sale -- don't miss it! undergone by human miners, and extend the possible depth of shafts to five or even ten miles below the surface. The robot shown trolled, and a television camera in its head keeps its operators on the surface fully informed of its progress. (Drawings by Ed Valigursky I mm future will enable cars to travel at rocket speeds. An electronic beam, traveling between the wheels of the car, transmits signals picked up by car's receiver These signals control speed, steering, and stopping. Driver has merely to drive car onto beam and relax Here is safe driving at jet speeds, electronically controlled. Now turn to inside buck cover. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg Archaeological Expedition to Earth, # AD  by James McKimmey, Jr. #I   by Frank M. Robinson #  z By Ed Valigursky  IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. I. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.a! Next issue on sale February #th are the lowest form of plant life. Often single-celled, they sometimes have leaflike and stemlike parts, but no true leaves and stems. Seaweed, kelp and similar aquatic gunk are actually the cities, towns and county fairs of algae. The time may come, and in the fairly near future at that, when you'll walk into a restaurant and ask the waiter for an order of roast algae, with a side of French fried yeast. The reasons for this are many. People don't multiply as fast as rabbits, but they're beginning to get the idea. The population of the United States hit # around the middle of last year, and you can expect to be rubbing elbows with # in a couple of decades. Arable land, on the other hand, is definitely going down the drain. Much of it has been ruined by sheer carelessness in the past and won't be useful again for a long time. Other sections are being encroached upon by industry, housing, damsites, bombsites, race tracks, and plain old erosion. It's improbable that man, stubborn beast that he is, will just give up and fade away. And we can't look to colonization of or imports from other planets just yet, although the possibility of a Iendlease arrangement with the rest of the solar system remains an eventual possibility to anyone with scientific imagination. We'll have to turn to other sources of food right here at home if we're going to survive. sibility that has been described fairly frequently and will undoubtedly be helpful. Wider use of fish and other denizens of the deep, which remains relatively unspoiled by human hands and gratifyingly large, is also on the list. Both of these, of course, are modifications or extensions of familiar processes; the blueplate specials we get from them will be easily recognizable. Large economy-sized fruits, vegetables and fish may become the rule, so that one brussels sprout, a piece hacked off a huge tomato, and a steak from a giant octopus will comprise a full meal -- but the taste and appearance won't be otherwise alien. Algae are something else again, and exactly what form they'll take by the time they reach your dinner table is unpredictable. But they're definitely on the way there. In the vanguard of this important work is the Department of Plant Biology (located in California) of the Carnegie Institute of Washington. This group has studied the mechanism of photosynthesis, by which plants use sunlight for growth, with single-celled algae as guinea pigs. They've been considering the mass culture of algae as a potential food source since before Word War II. Now the program has advanced to the level of actual engineering studies. Under Carnegie's direction, Arthur D. Little, Inc., a firm famous in many branches of research, engineering and technical economics, has built and is operating a pilot plant on a larger scale than was previously possible. Little's researchers have concentrated on Chlorella pyrenoidosa, a wellknown and easily available green algae, and the results have been very hopeful indeed. In this pilot plant operation, Chlorella and water were pumped through a transparent plastice tube, which exposed # square feet of the stuff to sunlight at one time. Inorganic salts were fed in as nutrients, and air enriched with carbon dioxide was also passed continuously through the tube. After this had gone on for three months, the scientists found themselves with a pile of # pounds of fresh, dry Chlorella on their hands and a good deal of new and useful information in their notebooks. One of the most important discoveries was the nutritional value of dry Chlorella: it contains about # per cent protein, up to # per cent fats, and most of the natural vitamins necessary to human health! All of which makes it just about equal to yeast as a food. This is highly significant, casting as it does a ray of hope that humanity won't have to tighten its collective belt quite so far after all. As usual, of course, there's a joker in the deck -- the high cost of algae. Original investment in the equipment necessary to grow Chlorella runs to over # per acre. And even though one acre of culture should produce # to # tons of dry product annually -- which ought to provide for a fair-sized family even assuming that the in-laws drop in for Sunday dinner -- the production cost would be about two and onehalf times that of comparable vegetable products today. If we reach the stage where there just aren't any comparable vegetable products to be had any more, this isn't likely to deter us much, but that's taking the dim view all around. Actually, there is good reason to hope that a substantial reduction in both original cost and upkeep can be brought about by use of a simpler system. ject is going on in Japan, at the Tokugawa Institute for Biological Research in Tokyo. Several food products fortified with Chlorella have been made, cooked, salted and peppered, and -- yes! -- eaten there on a small scale. The Institute's news releases haven't mentioned how Chlorella sandwiches taste (and they add the reservation that the average Japanese diet contains similar materials to begin with), but they do take a generally optimistic attitude. At the very least, Chlorella may be used within the ( Continued on page #) All Earth needed was a good stiff dose of common sense, but its rulers preferred to depend on the highly fallible computers instead. As a consequence, interplanetary diplomatic relations were somewhat strained -- until a nimble-witted young man from Mars came up with the answer to the "sixty-four dollar " question. By Sam Merwin, Jr. Illustrated by Kelly Freas rostrum in the huge new United Worlds auditorium on the shore of Lake Pontchartrain and looked out at an ocean of eyeglasses. Individually they ranged in hue from the rose-tinted spectacles of the Americans to the dark brown of the Soviet bloc. Their shapes and adornments were legion: round, harlequin, diamond, rhomboid, octagonal, square, oval; rimless, gem-studded, hornrimmed, floral-rimmed, rimmed in the cases of some of the lady representatives with immense artificial eyelashes. The total effect, to Lindsay, was of looking at an immense page of printed matter composed entirely of punctuation marks. Unspectacled, he felt like a man from Mars. He was a man from Mars -- first Martian Ambassador Plenipotentiary to the Second United Worlds Congress. He wished he could see some of the eyes behind the protective goggles, for he knew he was making them blink. He glanced down at the teleprompter in front of him -- purely to add effect to a pause, for he had memorized his speech and was delivering it without notes. On it was Lindsay suppressed. a smile and said, "In conclusion, I am qualified by the governors of Mars to promise that if we receive another shipment of British hunting boots we shall destroy them immediately upon unloading -- and refuse categorically to ship further beryllium to Earth. "On Mars we raise animals for food, not for sport -- we consider human beings as the only fit athletic competition for other humans -- and we see small purpose in expending our resources mining beryllium or other metals for payment that is worse than worthless. In short, we will not be a dumping ground for Earth's surplus goods. I thank you." The faint echo of his words came back to him as he stepped down from the rostrum and walked slowly to his solitary seat in the otherwise empty section allotted to representatives of alien planets. Otherwise there was no sound in the huge assemblage. He felt a tremendous lift of tension, the joyousness of a man who has satisfied a lifelong yearning to toss a brick through a plate-glass window and knows he will be arrested for it and doesn't care. There was going to be hell to pay -- and Lindsay was honestly looking forward to it. While Secretary General Carlo Bergozza, his dark-green spectacles resembling parenthesis marks on either side of his thin eagle beak, went through the motions of adjourning the Congress for forty-eight hours, Lindsay considered his mission and its purpose. Earth -- a planet whose age-old feuds had been largely vitiated by the increasing rule of computerjudgment -- and Mars, the one settled alien planet on which no computer had ever been built, were drifting dangerously apart. It was, Lindsay thought with a trace of grimness, the same ancient story of the mother country and her overseas colonies, the same basic and seemingly inevitable trend, social and economic, that had led to the revolt of North America against England, three hundred years earlier. On a far vaster and costlier scale, of course. Lindsay had been sent to Earth, as his planet's first representative at the new United Worlds Congress, to see that this trend was halted before it led to irrevocable division. And not by allowing Mars to become a mere feeder and dumping ground for the parent planet. Well, he had tossed a monkey wrench into the machinery of interplanetary sweetness and light, he thought. Making his way slowly out with the rest of the Congress, he felt like the proverbial bull in the china shop. The others, eyeing him inscrutably through their eyeglasses and over their harness humps, drew aside to let him walk through. But all around him, in countless national tongues, he heard the whispers, the mutterings -- "sending a gladiator"... "looks like a vidar star"... "too young for such grave responsibility"... "no understanding of the basic sensitivities"... Obviously, he had not won a crushing vote of confidence. them, he thought as someone tapped him on a shoulder. He turned to find du Fresne, the North American Minister of Computation, peering up at him through spectacles that resembled twin scoops of strawberry ice-cream mounted in heavy white-metal rims. "I'd like a word with you," he said, speaking English rather than Esperanto. Lindsay nodded politely, thinking that du Fresne looked rather like a Daumier judge with his fashionable humped back and long official robe of office. Over a table in the twilight bar du Fresne leaned toward him, nearly upsetting his colafizz with a sleeve of his robe. "M-mind you," he said, "this is strictly unofficial, Lindsay, but I have your interests at heart. You're following trend X." "Got me all nicely plotted out on your machine?" said Lindsay. Du Fresne's sallow face went white at this pleasantry. As Minister of Computation his entire being was wrapped up in the immensely intricate calculators that forecast all decisions for the huge North American republic. Obviously battling anger, he said, "Don't laugh at Elsac, Lindsay. It has never been wrong -- it can't be wrong." "I'm not laughing," said Lindsay quietly. "But no one has ever fed me to a computer. So how can you know... ?" "We have fed it every possible combination of circumstances based upon all the facts of Terro-Martian interhistory," the Minister of Computation stated firmly. His nose wrinkled and seemed to turn visibly pink at the nostril-edges. He said, "Damn! I'm allergic to computer-ridicule." He reached for an evapochief, blew his nose. "Sorry," said Lindsay, feeling the mild amazement that seemed to accompany all his dealings with Earthfolk. "I wasn't -- " "I doe you weren'd," du Fresne said thickly. "Bud de vurry zuggedgeshun of ridicule dudz id." He removed his strawberry spectacles, produced an eye-cup, removed and dried the contact lenses beneath. After he had replaced them his condition seemed improved. Lindsay offered him a cigarette, which was refused, and selected one for himself. He said, "What happens if I pursue trend X?" "You'll be assassinated," du Fresne told him nervously. "And the results of such assassination will be disastrous for both planets. Earth will have to go to war." "Then why not ship us goods we can use?" Lindsay asked quietly. Du Fresne looked at him as despairingly as his glasses would permit. He said, "You just don't understand. Why didn't your people send someone better attuned to our problems?" "Perhaps because they felt Mars would be better represented by someone attuned to its own problems," Lindsay told him. "Don't tell me your precious computers recommend murder and war." "They don't recommend anything," said du Fresne. "They merely advise what will happen under given sets of conditions." "Perhaps if you used sensible judgment instead of machines to make your decisions you could prevent my assassination," said Lindsay, finishing his scotch on the rocks. "Who knows?" he added. "You might even be able to prevent an interplanetary war!" When he left, du Fresne's nose was again growing red and the Minister of Computation was fumbling for another evapochief. fice on the one-twentieth floor of the UW building, Lindsay pondered the strange people of the mother planet among whom his assignment was causing him to live. One inch over six feet, he was not outstandingly tall -- but he felt tall among them, with their slump harnesses and disfiguring spectacles and the women so hidden beneath their shapeless coveralls and harmopan makeup. He was not unprepared for the appearance of Earthfolk, of course, but he had not yet adjusted to seeing them constantly around him in such large numbers. To him their deliberate distortion was as shocking as, he supposed wryly, his own unaltered naturalness was to them. There was still something illogical about the cult of everyday ugliness that had overtaken the mother planet in the last two generations, under the guise of social harmony. It dated back, of course, to the great Dr. Ludmilla Hartwig, psychiatric synthesizer of the final decades of the twentieth century. It was she who had correctly interpreted the growing distrust of the handsome and the beautiful among the great bulk of the less favored, the intense feelings of inferiority such comely persons aroused. It was from her computerpsychiatry that the answer employed had come: since everyone cannot be beautiful, let all be ugly. This slogan had sparked the mass use of unneeded spectacles, the distortion harnesses, the harmopan makeup. Now, outside of emergencies, it was as socially unacceptable for a man or woman to reveal a face uncovered in public as it had been, centuries earlier, for a Moslem odalisque to appear unveiled in the bazaar. There were exceptions, of course -- aside from those who were naturally ugly to begin with. Vidarscreen actors and actresses were permitted to reveal beauty when their parts demanded it -- which was usually only in villains' roles. And among men, professional athletes were expected to show their faces and bodies au naturel as a mark of their profession. Among women the professional courtesans -- the "models", not the two-credit whores -- displayed their charms on all occasions. Beauty was bad business for lower-caste prostitutes -- it made such clients they could promote feel too inferior. These specialists, the models and gladiators, were something of a race apart, computer-picked in infancy and raised for their professions like Japanese sumo wrestlers. They were scarcely expected to enter the more sensitive realms of the arts, business affairs or government. It was, Lindsay decided, a hell of a state of affairs. Earth-assigned personal secretary, was leaning far back in her tilt-chair with her feet on the desk. Her eyes were squinted behind chartreuse-tinted flat-oval lenses to avoid fumes from a cigarette stuck in a corner of her wide mouth. She had shut off the air-conditioner, opened the picture window and pulled the pants of her coverall far up above her knees to let the warm New Orleans September air wash over her skin. Lindsay looked at her legs with surprise -- it had not occurred to him that Nina owned such a long and shapely pair. He whistled softly through his teeth. Nina removed her smoke, sighed and made a move to stand up and let her coverall fall back over the exposed limbs. Lindsay said, "Not on my account -- please! Those are the first good looking legs I've seen since leaving Mars." "Watch yourself, boss," said Nina and indulged in a slow half-smile. Then, putting her feet back on the floor, "You certainly lost a lot of friends and disinfluenced a lot of people down there today. If you'd prepared your speech on the machine I'd have fixed it up for you." "Which is exactly why I prepared it in my hot little head," Lindsay told her. "I wanted to knock some sense into them." Nina got out of her chair and snuffed out her cigarette in the disposal tray, then sat on the edge of the desk and poked at the untidy dark-blonde hair she wore in a knot on top of her head. She said, "Night soil! You'll never knock any sense into that mob." Lindsay, who had been thinking wistfully that if Nina would only do something about that hair, the thickness of her middle, and her bilious complexion, she might be fairly good looking, blinked. He said, "Why in hell do you work for them then?" She shrugged disinterested shoulders, told him, "It's a job." She yawned, unabashed, added irrelevantly, "You know, boss, the trouble with you is you look like a gladiator. They won't take you seriously unless you wear specs and a harness." "Over my dead body," he told her. "What's wrong with athletes anyway? I play damned good tennis when I get time to practice." "Athletes are lousy lovers," she said. "Your correspondence is on your desk." She nodded toward it. "Get it signed, will you? I've got a dinner date." Lindsay restrained an impulse to ask her with what and signed the letters dutifully. Nina was a spy, of course, or she wouldn't have the job. In view of his own assignment and the delicacy of Terro-Martian relations at the moment, she must be a good one. He handed her the letters, noted the slight sway of her thick body as she walked toward the dispatchchute. A pity, he thought, that the rest of her failed to match the long perfect legs she had so unexpectedly put on display. "Oh, Miss Beckwith," he called after her. "You don't have to list my appointments on the teleprompter when I'm making a speech after this." She stopped, cast him an oblique glance over one shoulder and said without much interest, "I didn't know whether you'd get back here or not -- and it wouldn't do to forget the Secretary General." "All right," he said in resignation. When she had gone he wondered if he should have told her what du Fresne had said about his possible assassination, decided it was just as well he had kept mum. He wenl, up on the roof for a copter. Lindsay and Fernando Anderson, the flamboyant junior senator from New Mexico, were the only guests. They were four at the charming ante bellum mahogany table of the Secretary General's Natchez mansion. Carlo Bergozza, the Secretary General himself -- courteous, with natural as well as harness-stooped shoulders, a trifle vague -- and his daughter and official hostess, Maria -- vividly brunette and dynamic despite the twist given her body by her harness and the mask of huge triangular spectacles -- made up the rest of the party. The meal was simple, automatically served, well prepared. It consisted of plankton soup with chives in chilled bowls, noisettes of lamb with yeast-truffles and bamboograss and, in deference to Lindsay, a dessert of Martian lichenberries. Conversation consisted of routine gambits and responses until the dessert. Then Senator Anderson removed his diamond-shaped raspberry glasses and said, "You'll pardon me, but I want to see what our distinguished visitor really looks like. After all, he can see us as we are." Secretary General Bergozza looked briefly shocked. Then his overpowering courtesy came to his rescue and he laid aside his own dark green spectacles. He said, "You know, Lindsay, you remind me a little of an American ambassador to the Court of Saint James a hundred and fifty years ago -- I believe his name was Harvey. He refused to wear kneebritches to his own reception. Other times, other customs." "I'm sorry if my appearance is bothering people," said Lindsay, noting that Maria, without her glasses, came close to being a truly pretty young woman. "I'm not trying to disturb them -- I merely want them to see me as a true representative of my own world." Maria said impulsively, "It isn't that you bother us -- not really. It's just that you're a little too good looking. Almost like a gladiator. People aren't used to it in a statesman." "Too good looking -- with this busted beak of mine?" Lindsay pressed a finger against his nose, which had been broken in youth by a wild pitch. Senator Anderson said, "The slight irregularity of your nose is just enough to keep you from being too pretty, Lindsay." He smiled and added, "You certainly stirred up a cyclotron with your speech this afternoon. The British are planning a white paper." "I merely stated facts as I know them," said Lindsay. "They aren't used to facts -- not unless they have been computerprocessed," said the senator. He seemed pleased for some reason, added, "You may have broken some real ice, Lindsay. I've been trying for years to work out a way to tell people computers are robbing them of all powers of decision." "All they have to do is confine them to mathematical problems and let people decide human ones," said Lindsay. The Secretary General cleared his throat. He said, "Without the computers there would be no United Worlds. There would be no world at all, probably." It was a rebuke. Carlo Bergozza redonned his spectacles and rose from the table. He said, "If you'll excuse me I have some business to attend to. I'm sure my daughter will see that you are properly entertained." He left the room with slow, old-man steps. Maria said fondly, "Poor darling, he gets so upset. He'll take a pill and go to sleep. Let's go to the bathroom, shall we?" tary General's mansion was hyper-gingerbread steamboat Gothic, inwardly it was entirely modern in plan. There was a living room, of course, for formal receptions, but as in all normal Earth-dwellings of the period the bathroom was the lived-in chamber. There and there only did people of the #'s permit themselves to relax. This was a logical development of latter-day plumbing and air conditioning and the crowding of apartment and small-house life. Actual lavatory plumbing was concealed, in this instance, by an etched glass screen. Otherwise the room featured comfortable plastic lounge chairs and sofas around a fifteen-foot sunken tub and a small semicircular bar, fully equipped. On entering Maria unfastened her harness and coverall and stood before them, a sweet-bodied darkeyed girl in her early twenties, clad in shorts and halter. "Lord!" she exclaimed, pushing dark hair back from her broad low forehead, "It feels good to relax. Zalen, I want to talk to you." "Delighted," said Lindsay, mildly surprised at the use of his Martian first name. "I've got something to tell him first," said Anderson, unhitching his own harness and emerging as a lean medium-sized man in good condition for his forty years. "I got word just before I flew up here tonight that your life may be in danger, Zalen." fizz Maria handed him, said "That makes warning number two, Senator. Du Fresne talked to me about it this afternoon." Maria paled visibly. She said, "It sounds impossible!" "It backs up the judgment of my own group," said Senator Anderson. "Du Fresne is just about the smartest computerman we have." He eyed Lindsay speculatively, added, "You don't seem much impressed by your danger, Zalen." "How can I be?" Lindsay countered. "After all, Earth is supposed to be much further advanced than Mars in civilization. And we have had no political murder on Mars in more than fifty years." Maria made a despairing gesture. "Oh, dear!" she exclaimed. "You don't understand, Zalen. On Mars you have both room and time to settle your political conflicts. And you don't have computers." "We have some pretty sharp rows," Lindsay told her. "But we don't have anyone assassinated." He paused, looked at them both, added, "Do you have many of them here?" "Not many," said Anderson. "But there is a growing tendency to go along with computer verdicts, no matter how extreme." "And you believe the British computers are giving accurate answers when they recommend the utterly useless hunting boots on Mars? Or those rubber shower curtains they unloaded on us two years ago?" The Senator said, "There is, unfortunately, no question as to the accuracy of computer answers. The trouble seems to lie in some special condition, local to Britain, that effects computers." "But if the British computers are wrong, why doesn't somebody do something about it?" Lindsay asked. Anderson said, "If it were that simple, Zalen... His smile was rueful. "Unfortunately our English friends -- or their rulers at any rate -- are determined that socialism is the only government suitable to their country. Actually it is nothing of the sort -- they can thrive only with a mercantile capitalism under a nominal constitutional monarchy." "In that case I still don't see -- " Lindsay began. "Contrary to what you're thinking, their leaders are not villains," Anderson told him. "They are men and women obsessed with an ideal that has hampered them for almost two centuries. And they are incapable of accepting any conclusion counter to their ideals." "Even to impoverishing an entire planet?" Lindsay asked. Anderson shrugged. "A penalty of their insularity," he replied. "The reason for this little meeting, Zalen, is to explain that not all of us are in favor of supporting Britain and its absurd production bungling at the expense of Mars. A few of us are becoming singularly fed up with the computer neurosis that seems to have this planet in its grip." Maria leaned forward, her dark said, "Can't you see, Zalen, that is why we are so concerned with your possible assassination? We fear the whole of Earth is on the lip of a nervous breakdown. Unless the grip of the computers is broken anything might happen. And we're counting on you, with your fresh viewpoint and prestige, to help us." "I was hoping you might be concerned about me" said Lindsay softly. "After all, I'm the one who is supposed to be killed." He watched a sudden flush of embarto the vividness of the Secretary General's daughter. "Of course we're concerned," she said defensively. "We're not really monsters, Zalen." "What Maria means," said Anderson swiftly, "is that if the worst should happen it will go a long way toward making Earth entirely computer-dependent, if du Fresne's prophecy is fulfilled a lot of people who might go on fighting will simply give up." "Just what is your stake in this, Senator?" Lindsay asked. give you a score of 'good' reasons, Zalen. But my real reason is this -- I'm damned if I want to see professional politicians become rubber-stamps to a computer. When Sylac was first used officially three decades ago, it looked as if it might be a help. All we had to do was palm off all unpopular decisions on the machine. "Elsac, however, has proved to be something else," he went on. "It is making too damned many of our decisions for us -- and thanks to our having set Sylac up as a masterbrain god we can't controvert its judgment. When President Giovannini gets his new Giac computer working we might as well shut up shop. And the announcement that Giac is in operation may come at any time now." Lindsay studied him, then said, "Your real complaint then, Fernando, is that the computers deprive you of patronage and power." "That's about it," said the senator from New Mexico. We'll be reduced to the level of the political commissars of the Soviet nations. The scientists and symbolic logicians who feed and tend the computers will actually be running the country. And the world." "And just where do I come into this?" Lindsay asked. "You, Zalen, are the last representative of the last sizeable and important human organism that is not dependent upon computer judgment," said Anderson. "That's our side of it. From your own side -- if you already distrust computer decisions, as in the case of the British hunting boots -- you surely don't want to see them in full control." "Hardly," said Lindsay. "But at the same time I have no desire to be assassinated or to be the cause of an Earth-Mars war." "Think it over, Zalen," said Anderson. "I need hardly tell you that I am not speaking for myself alone." He got up, put down his glass, bade Maria farewell and left the Martian alone with her. When he had gone Lindsay looked at the girl, who returned his gaze quite openly for a long moment before her eyes fell away. He said, "Somehow the senator and you seem an odd combination." She made no pretense of misunderstanding but said candidly, "Perhaps I am neurotic in my distrust of computers but I cannot help that. Those of us who have any true sensitivity unblunted by the psycho-mechanistics of the era all share this distrust. It is natural, since we are few and weak, that we should seek what allies we can find among the strong." "I've always heard that politics makes strange bedfellows," said Lindsay casually. It was obvious that he had committed a faux pas. Maria's blush returned and her expression froze. Lindsay cursed himself for a fool. With the development of all sorts of pneumatic resting devices the word bed had become not only obsolete but definitely distasteful in well-bred Tellurian circles. Its use was as decried as was that of the word bloody in Victorian England. She said angrily, "I assure you, Mr. Lindsay, that Senator Anderson and I have never..." Voice and anger faded alike as she apparently realized that Lindsay had not intended insult. He let her mix a second drink for both of them. Then, standing close to her and noting the smooth perfection of her creamy white skin, "I wonder if your father knows that he is nourishing a subversive in his family." She said with a trace of impatience, "Oh, poor papa never sees the trees for the forest." "You're a damned unhappy girl, aren't you?" he asked her. He didn't need an answer, but realized she wanted to talk about it. She said, her eyes shining suspiciously, "You're right, of course, I'm very unhappy -- constricted in behavior by my father's position, unable to say aloud what I really think, how I really feel. Somtimes I think I must be living in some Gothic poet's dream of loneliness." "Contrary to the beliefs of most psychiatrists," said Lindsay, halftouched, half-appalled by Maria's intensity, "we are all of us alone." "Somehow I knew you'd understand!" she exclaimed, without taking her dark eyes from his. "I'm not allowed to date gladiators, of course. You're the only man I've ever been with who was not afraid to look as he is." "You'd better come to Mars," he suggested, shying away a little from the high voltage the Secretary General's daughter seemed to be generating. "I can assure you you'd have a chance to reveal the charms nature gave you without shame." She laughed with a sudden change of spirits. "It's at least a half hour since dinner. Let's take a dip." She tossed back her lustrous dark hair with a shake of her head and her hands went to the clasp of her halter, a moment later to that of her shorts. "Come on," she called, extending her arms to expose her exciting young body before him. "The water will cool us off." It didn't work out that way, of course. Lindsay was barely in the tub-pool before Maria's arms were about his neck, her body close against his, her lips thrusting upward toward his own. For a moment he felt panic, said, "Hey! What if somebody comes? Your father -- " "Silly! Nobody will," she replied, laughing softly. His last rational thought for quite awhile was, Oh well -- I'm hardly in a position to get the Secretary General's daughter angry. its dim fanlight over the eastern horizon as he coptered back to his official quarters in the city. Trying to restore some order to thoughts and emotions thoroughly disrupted by the unexpected events of the evening, he wondered a little just what he had got himself into. Mars, of course, was scarcely a Puritan planet, populated as it was by the hardiest and most adventurous members of the human race, of all races. But there had been something almost psychopathic about Maria's passion. It had been far too intense to have been generated solely through regard for him. The girl had made love to him simply to relieve her own inner tensions, he thought wryly. Lacking a man she could love, walled in by the high officialdom of her father's lofty position, she had turned to him in the same way she turned to the anti-computer movement -- as a way of feeling less lonely for a while. Still, it had been sweet -- if a little frightening in retrospect. And it had been a little decadent too. With the copter on autopilot he lit a cigarette and forced his thoughts away from the girl. Pie wondered if the Governors of Mars were sufficiently in key with the current feelings of Earthfolk to understand fully how deep the repercussions from his speech might go. He wondered if they had considered fully the possibility of interplanetary war. True, Mars was undoubtedly better equipped to defend itself against such attack than was Earth. Like the mother planet it had its share of robot rockets capable of launching a counterattack. And thanks to the comparative sparseness and decentralization of its population it was far less vulnerable to attack. But war between the planets would be destructive of far more than cities and the people that lived in them. It would mean inevitably a breakdown of the entire fabric of civilized humanity -- a tenuous fabric, true, but all that existed to maintain man. And an isolated Mars, even if self-sufficient, would be a sorry substitute for a red planet that was part of the United Worlds. It would mean a setback of generations, perhaps centuries. He began to feel a new understanding of the importance of his mission. With understanding came something akin to fear lest he should not be able to accomplish it without disaster. It was going to be his job to inaugurate some sort of therapy for Earth's illness. It was, in effect, one man against a planet. Considering the men and women with whom he had talked that day he was unable to take the assassination threat too seriously. Somehow these neurotics and warped zealots, with their allergies and distortion kits, seemed unlikely to undertake or carry through any such drastic action. Their very inhibitions would forbid it. Not that Maria had been exactly inhibited. Damn! The girl refused to stay out of his thoughts. He recalled what she had told him of her conspiracy against the computers, of its aims and methods. And again he smiled wryly to himself. They were like spoiled children, he thought. A little group of overintense young men and women, neurotic, excitable, unstable, meeting in one another's houses or in expensive cafes, plotting little coups that never quite came off. From certain unguarded phrases Maria had dropped during the less frenetic periods of their evening together, he gathered that their current aim was actual physical sabotage of Giac, the mightiest of all computers about to be unveiled, before it went into work. They didn't even realize, he thought, that sabotage would avail them nothing in the long run -- or the short either. Destruction of the computers would not cure Earth. It might easily increase the reliance of Earthfolk upon their cybernetic monsters. What was needed to effect a cure was destruction of human confidence in and reliance upon these machines. And how in hell, he wondered, was he going to manage that? starved Mars the sight of New Orleans still ablaze with lights at five o'clock in the morning was something of a miracle. Mars had its share of atomic power-plants, of course, but such sources had proved almost prohibitively costly as providers of cheap power. That was true on Earth too, of course, but Earth had its rivers, its waterfalls, its ocean tides to help out. More important, it averaged the Sun, thus giving it immense storage supplies of solar heat for power. Without these resources the thousand-square-mile expanse of intricately criss-crossed artificial lighting that was the United Worlds capital would have been impossible. Lindsay wondered how any people possessed of a planet so rich could be afflicted with such poverty of soul. Or was this very opulence the cause? His own planet was comparatively poor -- yet nervous breakdowns were few and far between. There the ugly strove for beauty, instead of the reverse. He parked the copter on the garage-plat, pressed the button, and watched it sink slowly out of sight to its concealed hangar. Like all Martian natives to leave for Earth, he had been warned about the intense heat and humidity that assailed most of the mother planet, especially in the UW capital. Yet the night breeze felt pleasantly cool against his face and its thickness was like the brush of invisible velvet against his skin. Perhaps, he thought, he was more of an Earthling than three generations of Martian heredity made likely. He did miss the incredible brilliance of the Martian night skies. Here on Earth the stars shone as puny things through the heavy atmosphere. But, he thought guiltily, he did not have as severe a pang of homesickness as he ought. In a state of self-bemusement he rode the elevator down to his suite on the ninety-first story. And was utterly unprepared for the assault which all but bore him to the floor as he stepped out into his own foyer. Since the attack came from behind and his assailant's first move was to toss a bag over his head, Lindsay had no idea of what the would-be assassin looked like. For a moment he could only struggle blindly to retain his balance, expecting every instant to feel the quick searing heat of a blaster burn through his back. But no heat came, nor did the chill of a dagger. Instead he felt his attacker's strong hands encircle his neck in a judo grip. This was something Lindsay understood. He thrust both his own hands up and backward, getting inside the assassin's grip and breaking it. His thumbnails dug into nerve centers and he bent an arm sharply. There was a gasp of agony and he felt a large body crumple under the pressure. to summon the constabulary. His second, after examining the face of his would-be slayer, was to drag the man into the shelter of his apartment, revive him and seek to learn what he could about the attempt. To his astonishment he discovered that he knew the man. His assigned murderer was long, redheaded Pat O'Ryan rated as a top gladiator, a tennis and squash champion whose reputation was almost as widespread among sporting fans on Mars as on Earth. Lindsay had remodeled his own backhand, just the year before, upon that of the man sent to kill him. He got some whiskey from the serving bar beside the vidar screen, poured a little of it between the unconscious killer's lips. O'Ryan sputtered and sat up slowly, blinking. He said, "Get me some gin, will you?" Lindsay returned the whiskey to its place, got the requested liquor, offered some neat to the tennis player in a glass. O'Ryan downed it, shuddered, looked at Lindsay curiously. He said, "What went wrong? You're supposed to be dead." Lindsay shrugged and said, "I know some judo too. You weren't quite fast enough, Pat." O'Ryan moaned again, reached for the bottle. Then he said, "I remember now. Thank God you got my right arm -- I'm left-handed." "I know," Lindsay told him laconically. The would-be assassin looked frightened. He said, "How do you know?" "I play a little tennis myself," Lindsay told him. "How come they sent a man like you on such a mission?" "Top gladiator -- top assignment," said the athlete. "We're supposed to do something besides play games for our keep." "That's a wrinkle in the social setup I didn't know about," said Lindsay. "Mind telling me who sent you?" "Not at all. It was my sponsors, the New Hibernian A.C." He frowned. "According to the computers I was in. There's going to be hell to pay over my muffing it." "How do you feel about that?" the Martian asked him. O'Ryan shrugged. "It's okay by me," he said. "They can hardly degrade me for fouling up this kind of a job. I'll simply tell them their information was incomplete. No one knew you knew judo." He eyed the gin, added, "A good thing you didn't feed me whiskey. I'm allergic to all grain products -- even in alcohol. Gomes from being fed too much McCann's Irish oatmeal when I was a kid." "Interesting," said Lindsay, wondering how the conversation had taken this turn. "What does whiskey do to you?" The gladiator shuddered. "It usually hits me about twenty-four hours afterward. Makes my eyes water so I can't see much. I've got a match at the Colosseum tomorrow night. I hope you'll be there." "So do I," said Lindsay dryly. "You wouldn't know who gave you this little chore on me, would you?" "Not likely," said the gladiator. "When we report at the club every evening we find our assignments stuck in our boxes. Usually we get orders to meet a dame. This was something different." "I see what you mean," Lindsay told him. O'Ryan got up, said, "Well, I might as well be running along. I'll give them hell for fouling up the computer-prophecy. Look me up after the match tomorrow. And thanks for not having me pinched. I might have had to spend the night in a cell. That's bad for conditioning." "You're quite welcome," said Lindsay, feeling like a character in a semi-nightmare. "Will I be seeing you again -- this way?" "Unlikely," the gladiator told him. "They'll have to run a lot of checks on you after this before they try again. See you tomorrow." Lindsay looked after his visitor with amazement. Then it occurred to him that computers were substituting not only for human judgment but for human conscience as well. And this, he felt certain, was important. Turning in on his contour couch, Lindsay recalled that he had given whiskey to the allergic athlete. He decided then and there that he would be in attendance at the match in the Colosseum that evening. eleven o'clock. His desk was stacked high with messages, written and taped, and all sorts of folk wished to talk with him on the vidarphone. Nina, looking more slovenly than ever, had arranged them neatly, according to their nature and importance in separate little piles. "Next time you tear up the peapatch," she informed him resentfully, "I'm going to get in some help." She eyed him with somber speculation, added, "I hear the SecGen turned in early last night." "You've got big ears," said Lindsay. "I get around," she said. "I'm supposed to keep tabs on you, boss." "Then you must know someone tried to kill me early this morning when I came back from Natchez." Nina's eyes narrowed alarmingly under the glasses that covered them. She said, "Why didn't you report it?" She sounded like a commander-in-chief questioning a junior aide for faulty judgment. "I won," Lindsay said simply. "There was no danger." "Who was it?" she asked. And, when he hesitated, "I'm not going to shout it from the housetops, boss." "It was Pat O'Ryan." "You handled Pat?" she asked, apparently astonished. Something in her tone told him Nina knew his would-be assassin. "Why not?" he countered. "It wasn't much of a brawl." "But Pat... she began, and hesitated. Then, all business again, "We'd better get at some of this. You have a date to be psyched by Dr. Craven at two o'clock." "What for?" he asked, startled. "Routine," she told him. "Everyone connected with UW has to go through it. But cheer up, boss, it doesn't hurt -- much." "Okay," he said resignedly. "Let's get to work." While he dictated Lindsay found himself wondering just who was paying Nina's real salary. If she were a spy for the same group that had sent O'Ryan to kill him, his position was delicate, to put it mildly. But for some reason he doubted it. There were too many groups working at once to make any such simple solution probable. When she departed briefly to superintend a minor matter out of the office, he found himself staring at the wastebasket by his tilt-chair. A heart-shaped jewel-box of transparent crystoplastic lay within it. Curious, Lindsay plucked it out. It had evidently held some sort of necklace and bore the mark of Zoffany's, the Capital's costliest jeweler. Within it was a note that read : For Nina, who lost last night -- as ever... The signature was an indecipherable scrawl. Lindsay stuck the card in his wallet, returned the box to the wastebasket. Who in hell, he wondered, would be sending this sort of gift to his slatternly thick-bodied secretary. The answer seemed obvious. The sender was her real boss, paying her off in a personal way that would obviate suspicion. Lindsay wondered exactly what Nina had lost. He was not surprised when she said she would come along to the psychiatrist's with him after an office lunch of veal pralines, soya buns and coffee. He suggested she might be tired, might want the day off. She said, "Night soil, boss! Between the Sec-Gen's daughter and things like Pat O'Ryan I'm going to keep an eye on you." As if on signal the vidar-screen lit up and Maria's face appeared on it. She had not donned harmopan or glasses and looked quite as lovely as she had the night before. She said, "Zalen, I've got to see you tonight. Something has come up." Lindsay nodded. He figured out his schedule, suggested, "I'm going to the match in the Colosseum. Why not take it in with me?" She shook her head, told him, "I'm tangled up at a banquet for the Egypto-Ethiopian delegation. I can meet you afterward though. How about the Pelican?" "That's not very private," he protested. "All the more reason," she announced. "This is important!" "And seeing me in private isn't?" Despite himself a trace of wounded male entered his tone. Maria laughed softly, her dark eyes dancing. "Perhaps later," she said softly. "You'll understand when I talk to you." She clicked off and the screen was empty. "Damned cat!" said Nina through a haze of cigarette-smoke. "Watch out for her, boss -- she's a cannibal." "And I'm a bit tough and stringy," he told her. Nina said, "Night soil!" again under her breath and led the way out of the office. Lindsay wondered if she were jealous. a comfortable chamber, the north wall of which was all glass brick, the south wall a solid bank of screens and dials. He was a softfaced man who wore lozengeshaped light blue spectacles and seemed afflicted with a slight chin rash. He caught Lindsay's regard, rubbed his chin in mild embarrassment, said, "I've a mild allergy to paranoids." Lindsay looked at Nina distrustfully but she nodded and said, "Go ahead -- he won't break your arm. I'll wait outside." The psychiatrist closed his office door. After settling him in a comfortable contour couch, Dr. Craven opened up with, "I don't want you to have any worries about this test, Ambassador. If anybody's crazy here it's me. According to very sound current theory all psychiatrists are insane. If we weren't we wouldn't be so concerned with sanity in others." Lindsay asked, "Why in hell am I being tested anyway?" Craven replied, "President Giovannini himself came in for a voluntary checkup just last week." As if that were an answer. Lindsay suppressed a desire to ask if the North American president had all his marbles. He had an idea any levity he displayed would register against him. Dr. Craven asked him a number of apparently routine questions which Lindsay answered via a recorder. How old he was, whether he liked flowers, how often he had fought with his schoolmates as a boy, what sort of food he preferred. "Good," the doctor said, pushing aside the microphone on his desk and motioning Lindsay to do likewise. He rose, wheeled a device like an old-fashioned beautician's hairdrier close to the couch, adjusted the helmet to Lindsay's head. "Now," he added, "I want you to think as clearly as you can of your mother. Keep your eyes on the screen and give me as clear a picture as you can." He pressed a button and the whir or a camera, also focussed on the screen, sounded from the wall behind Lindsay. When Dr. Craven nodded, he concentrated and, to his amazement, watched a fuzzy likeness of his maternal parent take form on the screen. This was something new, he decided, and said so. Dr. Craven replied, "Yes -- the psychopic is brand new. But concentrate on the picture, please. You're losing it." It had faded to almost nothing. Lindsay concentrated again, this time brought his maternal parent into clear focus. He felt a little like a man who has never wielded a brush in his life and has suddenly discovered he could paint a perfect portrait. Dr. Craven said nothing for a moment. Then, "Will you try to visualize your mother without the blemish at her temple?" Lindsay tried, and all but lost the picture entirely. He brought it back again, blemish and all, felt a sudden tug of nostalgia for the firm kindly features of the woman who had brought him into the world. A minute or so later Dr. Craven pressed another button and the screen went blank. "That will do very nicely," he said. "You may wait for the psycho-computer verdict outside if you wish." He found Nina sprawled in an anteroom chair with her long legs stuck out before her, contemplating a flashing diamond-and-emerald necklace. He said, before she looked up and saw him, "Business good, Miss Beckwith?" To his amazement Nina began to snivel. And when he asked her what he had done to cause it she snapped angrily, "You big pig, you haven't the sensitivity to understand. Don't ever speak of it as business again. Now I'll have to bathe my eyes when I get home or they will be all swollen and horrible." She removed her glasses and they were swollen. Lindsay had seen too much of allergic reactions since reaching Earth not to know he was looking at another. He was relieved when she put her glasses back on. "Sorry," he said. "I didn't mean to disturb you." "I know it," she replied, "but you did." "Perhaps, if you told me -- " he began. Dr. Craven chose that moment to emerge from his office. "If you'll come back inside," he said. "There are just a few more questions I'd like to ask, Ambassador." "Ask them here," said Lindsay. He had no desire to go back under the drier. Dr. Craven hesitated and rubbed his chin, which was bright red again. He said finally, "Mr. Lindsay, you didn't kill your mother before you were seventeen, did you?" "My mother died last year," said Lindsay, unbelieving. "Incredible!" muttered the psychiatrist, shaking his head. "According to the computer you must have..." He paused again, then said, "I hope this won't embarrass you but you evidently are a man who prefers men to women. The stigmata is definite and shows -- " "Night soil!" Nina exploded her favorite expression before Lindsay could collect his wits for an answer. "I'm sorry to disappoint you, Dr. Craven, but this man's a veritable satyr. I caught him looking at my legs yesterday. Ask Maria Bergozza if you want any further proof." "But this is impossible!" the psychiatrist exploded. "According to the computer -- " "Your computer's out of whack," Nina said calmly, and led a stunned Lindsay out of the place. She added, "You didn't deserve that, boss. Not after puffing my eyes up." "Why not just keep your glasss on then?" he countered. They returned to their office in unfriendly silence. Lindsay sent Nina home early and took a copter across the Lake to his own place, there to nap until time for the match at the Colosseum. UW box at the vast arena than at any time since reaching Earth. Since it was a sporting event, the eye-glasses were serried, at least in the lower, higher-priced tiers, by good looking faces, male and female, unadorned. Someone slid into the comfortable contour chair beside him and said, "Evening, Zalen. Enjoying yourself?" Lindsay looked into Senator Fernando Anderson's diamond-shaped raspberry glasses. He said, "So far -- how about you?" Anderson made a face. "I had a date with a gorgeous item but she put me off until later. So I thought I'd look in. Maria arranged a seat in the UW box. Otherwise I'd be watching it on vidar." Lindsay looked up and around and discovered that the vast stadium was packed to the rafters, judging by the glowing cigarette tips that resembled an uncountable horde of frozen fireflies. The court itself was pitch-dark, save for the lines and the net. He had trouble recognizing O'Ryan as his would-be assassin and opponent walked out. Neither player was clearly visible of feature, though shoes, shorts and racquets were luminous, as were the balls they began to hit back and forth across the net. The only other luminous objects, save for the dim exit lights, were the betting boards. Lindsay, who had never seen one save on a vidarscreen before, asked Anderson how they worked. The senator from New Mexico was glad to explain. "Naturally," he said, "since the results of all athletic contests are predicted on the computers, there is no betting on who will win." "No upsets?" Lindsay asked." Anderson laughed, said, "The last time there was an upset -- in the British Australian test cricket matches three years ago -- a computer investigation proved bribery and there was a hell of a stink." "Then how do you manage to bet?" Lindsay asked. "Simple," said the Senator. "Naturally, in case of accidental injury, all bets are void. But otherwise the betting is on the percentage of variation between the computer prediction and the actual play of the contest. There -- you can see the computer line on the big board over there. The line of actual play will be red when it comes on. That way there is plenty of chance for betting on points, games, sets or match." The man from Mars studied the predictor line for the match. It revealed that Pat O'Ryan, after a fast start, was due to slump in the second set, recover in the third and polish off his opponent, YamatoRau from Indonesia, in the fourth set with the loss of but one game. "Looks like a shoo-in for O'Ryan," he said. "Right?" "It ought to be," the Senator replied. "He's taken Yamato-Rau in six of their seven previous matches. "The second time they played he had a sprained wrist that affected his volleying." "Care to make a bet?" Lindsay asked his companion. "Sure -- why not?" Anderson countered, "Percentage of variation for game, set or match?" "I'd like to bet on the Indonesian to win," said Lindsay quietly. IV at Lindsay sharply. He said, "You know something." "Against the computer-prophecy?" Lindsay countered. Anderson backed down and gave him a hundred to one on a fiftycredit bet. "You can't win, of course," he murmured, "but if you do it will be worth it." The match began and the hum of the great crowd's conversation slowly quieted. At first it went according to the computer prophecy. from either hand and smashing and volleying with deadly accuracy from all parts of the court, Pat O'Ryan held complete command of the match. There was something hypnotic about the play -- the clean ping of racquet strings on luminous ball, the swift flight of the ball, a streak of light in the darkness, the flash of another racquet, the long and intricate tactics of each exchange, broken only occasionally by the flash of a light that betokened an error or an ace and the resulting alteration of the scoreboard. The red line crept in zigzag fashion along the computer board as the match progressed, veering above or below the white line of the prophecy but always returning to cross or even to cover it briefly. Big O'Ryan tqok the first set six games to three on a single service break against the Indonesian champion. "Money in the bank," said Anderson in Lindsay's ear as the players changed courts following the first game of the second set, which Yamato-Rau had taken at fifteen. "Candy from a baby.""It's barely begun," said Lindsay with a confidence he was far from feeling. He glanced at the clock above the scoreboard, saw that it was scarcely ten o'clock. Sickly he recalled that O'Ryan had told him it took twenty-four hours for his grain allergy to take effect. Lindsay had given him the drink barely seventeen hours before. He began to wish he had not bet so thoughtlessly. The second set went to deuce twice before Yamato-Rau broke O'Ryan's service to run it out at eight-six. This was two games more than the computer had calculated and caused considerable uproar in the crowd. "I hear you had some trouble last night," Anderson told him. "Nothing serious," said Lindsay, wondering how much the senator knew. Dammit, he thought, he wished he didn't like the powerhungry politician. He wondered if Anderson were behind the attempt of the morning -- and if he were behind it, why? There could, he decided, be all sorts of Machiavellian motives hidden beneath that smiling face. Then the match got under way once more, and Lindsay concentrated on the play. Once again O'Ryan seemed to be in command -- just as the computer had foretold. Games went to fivetwo in his favor. Then, as the players changed courts once more, the tall Irishman paused to towel off -- and paid special attention to rubbing his eyes. At that his string ran out. Four straight times his swiftest drives hit the top of the net and bounced back into his own court. He blew his service thanks to a pair of doublefaults and three minutes later Yamato-Rau had taken the set while the crowd sat in stunned silence. The fourth set was pitiful. O'Ryan played like a blind man and the Indonesian ran it out with the loss of exactly one point per game. The red line on the computer-board yawed wildly toward the bottom instead of following the white line as it should have. "Keep your credits," Lindsay told Senator Anderson. "You were right. As it turned out I did know something after all." "It's impossible!" cried the senator. "But it's cheap at the price -- here!" He withdrew his wallet and began pulling out crisp hundredcredit notes. "Look out!" cried Lindsay. Around them the stands had erupted into violence. While the players were shaking hands at the net, angry -- and, Lindsay suspected, frightened -- bettors and spectators leaped the low barriers and swarmed out onto the dark court. They hemmed the players in, driving them toward the wall directly under the UW box in which Lindsay and Anderson were sitting. Someone threw something and Yamato-Rau stumbled and fell to his hands and knees. Swinging his racquet like one of his ancestors' shillalehs, O'Ryan chargedto his rescue, pulled him to his feet, covered his retreat to the wall. There Lindsay was able to pull first the Indonesian, then the Irishman, up into the box. "Damned fool!" said Anderson. "Getting us into a riot." But a moment later Lindsay saw the senator swinging hard at an angry customer with a fist in which his wallet was still clenched. The man made a grab for it as someone else hit Anderson over the head with a plastic bottle. He dropped across a contour-chair, letting his wallet fall from unconscious fingers. UW police formed a protective wall around them and Pat O'Ryan, recognizing Lindsay, said, "Thanks, Ambassador. I guess I owe you a couple. If my eyes hadn't gone bad on me..." Lindsay was tempted to admit his guilt in that matter but decided against it. He had no desire to be caught in another riot. He picked up Anderson's wallet, put it back in the still unconscious senator's breast pocket. A white-clad interne was brought through the police cordon, knelt beside Anderson and began to make repairs. "You'd better leave now, Ambassador," said one of the boss policeman respectfully to Lindsay when the senator had been carted away on a stretcher. Lindsay nodded. Then he noticed a slip of paper lying beneath the chair across which Anderson had fallen. It read: rec. # cdt. I em.  di. neck. It was from Zoffany, the jeweler. "What the hell!" Lindsay discovered he was speaking aloud. He stuffed the paper in his pocket and followed the officer through a maze of underground passages out of the Colosseum. He still thought, What the hell! What could Nina have reported about him that was worth that sort of money to the senator? was efficient, as he realised when a bowing motley-clad waiter captain smilingly ushered him to a secluded table for two in a banquet niche of the Pelican. It was Lindsay's first visit to an Earthly afterdark cafe and he instinctively compared it with certain of its imitations in the comparatively small cities of his native planet. It was sleeker, better run, far more beautiful. Its general color scheme was darkly opalescent, subtly glowing, flattering to its clients. And, of course, most of them needed flattering, at least to Lindsay's alien eyes. He noted here a pair of scimitar-shaped spectacles whose turquoise-studded rims caught the light like a pair of small lemon pies, there a harmopan-covered female face that glowed pale green in the darkness. But even more numerous and decorative than at the stadium, the gladiators and courtesans were present, reinforced by a larding of vidar stars visiting or entertaining in the capital. And these, Lindsay admitted to himself with awed reluctance, outshone in sheer beauty and handsomeness any group of Martian humans. They ought to, he thought. Direct descendants, figuratively if not actually, of the advertising-Hollywood beauty fetish of the previous century, they were selected almost from birth for their callings and trained rigorously from childhood on, the males to become athletes or actors, the females courtesans or actresses. There was no race among them, for their only standards were beauty and physical fitness, no creed but achievement in their lines of individual entertainment. He caught sight of a lissome EuroAfrican, the classic exoticism of her flower-petal face illumined by joyous laughter beneath a glossy neo-Watusi hairdo, as she glided gracefully over the dance-floor in the arms of a hunchharnessed and bespectacled partner. The gladiators and courtesans alone seemed to find joy in living. Lindsay, who had seldom been unhappy in his active existence, felt his sympathies and heart go out to them. He followed the progress of a tiny Oriental model whose face was alive with good-humor as she swept past his table, her exquisite figure stressed by a glittering jeweled sheathe. "You really should wear glasses -- or else learn not to stare," said Maria, appearing from nowhere and sitting down at the table. She made amends by extending a warm soft hand to grip one of his. Though she wore her glasses and her hair was severely pulled back, he had no difficulty in recalling the fact that, unclothed, she was lovely. "Why don't you get in on the act?" he suggested, nodding toward a pair of models emerging from the harmopan room. "All you'd have to do would be to remove your specs and harness and let your hair down." "You're sweet, Zale," she said, pleased. Then, with a sigh, "But there's a lot more to it than that." "You do all right that way too," he told her boldly. She slapped the back of his hand and then, growing quickly serious, said, "Zale, I didn't ask you to meet me for that. I've got so much to ask you -- so much to tell. Did you really find an assassin waiting for you when you got home last night? And did you kill him?" "Yes and no," said Lindsay. "I did find one and I didn't kill him. In fact we parted good friends." "You Martians..." She sighed, then said, "And I understand you have already broken two computers -- this afternoon at the psychiatrist's and this evening at the Colosseum. It's the most marvelous news, darling. I've got to know how you did it." "I'm damned if I know how I fouled up Dr. Craven's computer," he told her. "I'm still trying to figure it out." Her face fell. She said, "I was hoping you had something... But never mind." Then, brightening, "But you're driving them crazy. They ran Dr. Craven's results through Elsac late this afternoon and got the same answer. The records checked that you didn't kill your mother and I know you're not an invert." She laughed softly. Spurred by the erotic atmosphere, plus the dizzying speed of recent events and Maria's nearness, he said, "Let's get out of here and go to my place." Her hand covered his again atop the table. "I wish we could," she said wistfully. "I like you very much, Zale darling. But this is too important. We haven't time. But what about the tennis tonight? There's going to be an investigation, of course. Won't you tell me how you did it?" "Not until I've figured out both," he said. "I may be on the track of something or it may be sheer chance. Until I understand what happened at Dr. Craven's I'm simply not sure of my facts." "But there simply isn't time, darling," Maria told him. "This is really what I must talk to you about. We got word today that President Giovannini is going to unveil Giac any day now." "Decided against your sabotage plan?" he asked her. She wrinkled her pert little nose. "What's the use? They'd simply repair it. Besides, it's much too well guarded. Zale, you're our only hope now." He said "If I'm right, and I'm beginning to hope I am, it won't matter whether Giac is unveiled or not. In fact, it might be more effective if it were." Maria drummed on the table with nervous knuckles. "But you don't understand, Zale. You don't think for a minute that the Ministry of Computation is taking this lying down. I got word less than half an hour ago that they are preparing to force your recall as an unsuitable plenipotentiary." "They can try." Lindsay spoke grimly. This was a move he had failed to forsee, though he supposed he should have. Inadvertently he was becoming a major threat to the crockery in the china shop that was Earth. "They can do it," Maria said simply. "Zale, these people have become absolutely dependent upon their computers. They aren't going to let their entire creed be wrecked by one Martian." "What do you want me to do?" he dsked simply. "Come with me -- now," she said, once more gripping his hand. "A group of us want to talk to you, to find out how you have done it." He looked at her, found her adorable in her earnestness. He said, "And if I play guinea pig with your friends, then you and I... ?" "Of course -- as soon as there's time," she told him. "You are a little bundle of fanaticism, as well as of sex," he told her. "I should think at least, since you seem to have such an inside track, you could manage to get my recall deferred." "That's just it!" she exclaimed bitterly. "I see everything, I hear everything -- yet I can do nothing. Papa thinks I'm merely a foolish female creature and his attitude blocks me at every turn." Lindsay realized again how fundamentally frustrated she was, wondered if she would ever find a completely satisfactory release. Lindsay decided to play along. "All right," he said. "Shall we go?" "Thanks, darling," she promised. "We'd better go separately. There will be a blue copter-cab waiting outside when you leave." She leaned across the table to brush his lips briefly with hers, squeezed his hand and glided off. waited for the check, just how foolhardly he was being, allowing himself to be summoned to a meeting of palace conspirators. It could very easily be a trap, whether Maria knew it or not. It could be a ruse to add fuel to the fire being lit under him for his recall as a legate persona non grata on Earth. "You haven't forgotten our date, have you darling?" The voice was throatily reproachful above him and he looked up in surprise at a glittering female figure, who seemed to be clad entirely in blazShe was tall and blonde, her hair an ocean helmet of gold, sprinkled with gems. Her face was beautifully boned, with broad cheeks and forehead pierced by a decided widow's peak. Light green eyes slanted upward beneath brows like the wings of some tiny graceful bird. Nose, lips and chin gained fascination from the perfection they skirted but just escaped. Face, arms, upper bosom and shoulders wore the even tawny golden tan that only some blondes can achieve. Her figure, ashimmer with gems, was lithe of waist, firmly full of breast and pelvis, moved with the enticing grace of an Indonesian temple dancer as she slipped into the seat Maria had so recently vacated. "Sorry, your highness," he said with a look of honest admiration. "I didn't know we had a date." "We have now," she stated. She laid a handbag solidly encrusted with diamonds, emeralds and rubies on the table, said to the dwarf waiter, "Bring me the usual, Joe -- and give Ambassador Lindsay another of whatever he's drinking." At any other time, Lindsay thought. He said, "I regret this more than you'll ever know, my dear, but I've got a copter-cab waiting for me outside." "It will keep." The girl pouted prettily, then leaned toward him and said huskily, "We'll have just one here. Then we can go to my place. It's just outside of Biloxi, almost on the Gulf. We can watch the dawn come up over the water. We can -- " "Stop twisting my arm," said Lindsay, trying to keep his thoughts in focus. Who had sent this girl and why? And what, he wondered, awaited him in Biloxi. He got up, tossed a twenty-credit note on the table. "This will pay the check," he informed her. "Not so fast," said the houri, rising with him. Trying to ignore her, he headed toward the door as fast as he could. She kept after him and his ears burned as he plunged out into the night, saw the blue copter-cab waiting with its door open at the curb. But when he tried to plunge toward it he was halted by an arm whose sharp-faceted jeweled adornments cut his adam's apple. He gasped but the girl got in front of him, waving her bag. There was a faint popping noise as the door closed and the coptercab swiftly and silently darted away. Stunned by the swiftness of events, Lindsay was utterly incapable of resistance when his decorative tormentor thrust him into another vehicle. As they took off he said, "I suppose this is the prelude to another assassination try." "Night soil!" said a familiar voice. "What the hell do you think I just saved you from, boss?" word which, he thought later, was singularly revealing as to his native flair for diplomacy. He said, briefly and succinctly, "Huh?" "Listen, my fine unfeathered Martian friend." She sounded like a primary school teacher addressing an overgrown and somewhat backward pupil. "Somebody fired a glass bullet at you from that cab." . "How do you...?" he began helplessly. For answer she turned on the copter-cab light, revealing the back of a uniformed chauffeur, and showed him her handbag. There was a slight tear in one side of its begemmed surface and, when she shook it, bits of glass fell to the floor. "Careful," she warned when he reached for the bag. "It was probably packed with poison." Then, "Can you think of a better shield than diamonds?" He said, "Ulp!" Unquestionably, now that she had revealed herself, this glittering creature was his slovenly office Nina. Seeking desperately to recover what had at best been a shaky boss-secretary relationship, he said, "Where are you taking me?" "Out of the city, boss," she informed him. "We really are going to my place in Biloxi. You're much too hot a property to be allowed to wander around loose. Two tries in less than twenty-four hours." "Then Maria..." he said, wonderingly. Nina picked his thought up crisply. "We don't know whether your little playmate put the finger on you consciously or not. But she did it. Some of that sweet little crew she pals around with are desperate. They don't believe they can lick the computers and their only hope is to foment incidents that will lead to an interplanetary war. Nice kids!" "But why pick on me?" he asked. "From what Maria said tonight I'm their one hope of beating the machines." Nina shook her head at him sadly. "And you're the best brain our Martian cousins could send us. Here it is in words of one syllable. Maria's mob wants war. They believe they can light the powder train by arranging the assassination of a Martian Plenipotentiary. "Meanwhile your speech yesterday and your fouling up Doc Craven's computer this afternoon, and whatever you did at the tennis tonight, have the Computer crowd screaming for your recall before you upset their little red wagon." She paused, added, "Naturally Maria's crowd wants to have you killed before you become a mere private citizen of Mars. Once you're removed from office you aren't important enough to cause a war." "Good God!" said Lindsay as the double pattern became apparent. Then, curiously, "And just whom do you represent, Nina?" She eyed him steadily, mockingly for a moment. Then she said, "Let's just say for now that I represent the Model's Union. We don't want any wartime austerity wrecking our pitch. Will that do?" "I guess it will have to," he said. Then, plucking a diamond-andemerald necklace from among the half-dozen about her throat, "You certainly didn't give poor Anderson much for his money." "Stop it!" she snapped. "Do you want my eyes to swell up again? In a way what happened tonight was all your fault. Fernando and I were going to keep close tabs on you but you fouled me up with your beastly remark about my business at Doc Craven's and then put poor Fernando out of commission by getting mixed up in that riot at the Colosseum. I barely made the Pelican in time." He thought of giving Nina the receipt from Zoffany's in his pocket. decided not to take the chance. So. he said, "Is Fernando working for the Model's Union too?" "Stop trying to be funny," she told him. "Night soil! You make me so damned mad. Letting that little tramp Maria nail you." "At the time there wasn't much alternative," he said. Then, eyeing her closely, "How come you're mixed up in UW politics? I thought models were strictly for fun and games." Nina said matter-of-factly, "I won top model rating when I was seventeen. I still hold it and I'm twenty-six now. A girl can get tired of being and doing the same thing -- even in my profession. Besides, I've got brains. So I try to use them." "How come you decided to be my secretary?" "We drew lots and I lost," she informed him. searchlight to a flagged terrace in front of a dark cottage just off the beach. "Thanks, Bob," said Nina. "Tell the boys to stand by with their guard beams up." Then, to Lindsay, "Come on, boss, let's get out of this heap." She walked swiftly toward the cottage, pressed something. Soft lights came on, revealing a charming simulated wood dwelling in the fine antique Frank Lloyd Wright tradition. She ushered him into a delightfully gay bathroom looking out on the water, said, "Wait here while I get this armor off." Lindsay felt a slight qualm as he considered what being a top model at seventeen must mean. And then he thought, Why not? Certainly he had no claim on Nina's morals. He doubted if anyone had a claim of any kind on her. She emerged, looking unexpectedly like a young girl in simple clout and cup-bra, which exposed most of her gorgeously tanned body. Her hair, innocent of jewels like the rest of her, was clubbed back simply with some sort of clip. She lit a cigarette and said, "Now -- how the hell are you fouling up the computers?" "I'm not," he told her promptly. "At least not in the case of the tennis match. I just happened to know something about Pat O'Ryan the people who fed facts to the computer didn't." "That goon Pat!" she said. "He's so damned dumb." "You know him well?" he asked with a trace of jealousy. "I know him." She dismissed it with a flick of her cigarette. "It's a good thing you knew judo too, boss. But what did you do to him that fouled up the match?" "While he was out cold I gave him a shot of whiskey to bring him 'round," Lindsay told her. "He didn't know about it and I didn't tell him when he informed me about his grain-alcohol allergy. So for once the computer didn't get full facts. And I had them." For the first time Lindsay basked in a smile of approval from Nina. She said. "And then you had to mess me up at Doc Craven's so I couldn't sit in on the match." "I'm sorry about that," he said sincerely. "You might brief me so I don't do it again." "Well..." She hesitated. "I don't want to set myself off. It's not uncommon among us -- models. You see, we're proud of our careers,, not like the two-credit whores who wear glasses and harnesses. And it hurts us when someone refers to our work as business. You see, there's nothing really commercial about it. So when you -- " "But how the devil was I to know you were a model?" he asked her. "I know," she said illogically. "But it still made me mad." Then, frowning, "But if the computer was wrong because of incomplete knowledge at the Colosseum, what was wrong at Doc Craven's?" Lindsay said, "I'm damned if I know." "We've got to know, with the president ready to put Giac to work." "I meant to tell you about that," said Lindsay. "Don't worry," Nina informed him. "Your table at the Pelican was wired." "Why are you against computers?" Lindsay asked her. She dropped her smoke in a disposal-tray, said, "Never mind why -- let's just accept the fact that I am. And not for Fernando Anderson's reason either. He just wants power." "And what do you want?" "Me?" Her eyebrows rose in surprise. "Why, I just want to have jun!" She extended her arms and flapped her hands like birds. Then, again reverting to seriousness, "I wish you'd tell me everything that went on at Doc Craven's yesterday. Dammit, his office wasn't wired." Lindsay went through it, as nearly word for word as he could, then did it again when no answer was quickly forthcoming. Nina listened, her perfect forehead marred by a frown. Finally she said, "Let's take a dip. It's almost dawn." She removed what clothing she wore and Lindsay did likewise. They felt the refreshing caress of the cool Gulf water on their skins -- but that was all the caressing there was. Nina, unlike Maria, was all business despite the near-blatant perfection of her charms. Back in the bathroom she said, "The only thing I can think of is that stigmata business. Why should you imagine a mark on your mother's forehead?" "Because she had one," he told her bluntly. "It was not unattractive -- my father used to call it her beauty mark." Nina ran long slim fingers through her water-dark hair and said incredulously, "You mean blemishes are not removed automatically at birth on Mars?" "Why, no," said Lindsay, surprised. "It's entirely up to the individual -- or the parents." "And Doc Craven asked no questions that would lead to the truth?" the girl asked, blinking. When Lindsay shook his head she suddenly grabbed him and kissed him and did a little dance of sheer joy. "It's simply too good to be true! Two computers fouled in one day through missing information!" "You're right, of course," he admitted. "But I'm damned if I see how it docs us any good." "You idiot!" she shook him. "It clears the whole situation. It means that the computers cannot give accurate answers according to the symbolic logic tables unless they get full information. And you have proved two breakdowns in the inescapable human element -- the information feeding -- just like that!" She snapped her fingers. "It means we've got the whole computer-cult on the hip. I could kiss you again, you big goon." She did so. "Cut it out," he said. "I'm not made of brass." She said, "Night soil," amiably. What he might have done he was never to know, for a buzzer sounded and Nina moved quickly to a walltalkie. She said. "All right, Bob, you say he's clean?" Then, a moment later, "Better let him in and say his piece." And, to Lindsay, "We've got company. Dmitri Alenkov -- met him?" Lindsay frowned. "You mean the Soviet charge d'affaires? I met him at the reception last week. Dreadful little lizard." "Dmitri might surprise you," she said enigmatically. Lindsay almost said night soil himself in exasperation. Instead and peevishly he asked, "Is there anybody you don't know -- intimately?" She laughed. "Of course," she said, "I don't know many women." the bathroom. He was a languid mincing creature whose decadence glowed around him like phosphorescence around a piece of rotted swampwood. He said, "I hope I am not intruding." "That depends," Nina told him. "I'd like to know how you traced us here so quickly." "My sweet," said the Russian in intensely Oxford Esperanto, "you and your friend's" -- with another bow toward Lindsay -- "little affair at the Pelican was witnessed this evening. When the two of you departed together, heading eastward, and Ambassador Lindsay could not be reached in his apartment... He paused delicately. So this, thought Lindsay, was a descendant of one of the Red Commissars whose fanatic and chill austerity had terrorized the free world of a century ago. Lindsay knew something of modern Soviet history, of course. There had been no real counter-revolution. Instead the gradual emergence of the scientists over their Marxist political rulers had been a slow process of erosion. Once computer rule was inaugurated in the North American Republic and swept the Western World, the scientists had simply taken over real power. The oncepowerful Politburo and its sub-committees became obsolete. Alenkov was stressing this very point. He said, "So you see, we, the best blood of Russia, are forced by these machines to live the lives of outcast children. Naturally we resent it. And when, after so many long years of waiting, we learn that one man has succeeded in foiling the computers where no man has succeeded before, we want to know his secret. We must have it." Nina spoke first. She said, "Dmitri, the secret, as you call it, has been right there all along for any of us to see. It just happens that Ambassador Lindsay fell into it head first." "Thanks for the 'Ambassador' anyway," Lindsay said drily. Nina quelled him with a frown. "The computer weakness," she said, "lies in the human element. Now figure that out for yourself." Alenkov's brows all but met in the middle of his forehead and his mouth became a little round O under the twin commas of his mustache. He said, "I see." He left shortly afterward on a note of sadness, rousing himself only to say to Lindsay, "Ambassador, you are a very lucky man." His eyes caressed Nina's near-nude figure. "That," Lindsay told him, "is what you think." When he had departed Lindsay suddenly realized he was exhausted. He sank back in a contour chair and let fatigue sweep over him. But Nina paced the bathroom floor like a caged cat. Finally she went to the wall-talkie, gave a number in a low voice. She pushed some sort of signal button several times, then swore and said, "Better not sleep now, boss. We're cut off." It brought him to with a start. "What do you mean?" he asked. "Somebody or something is jamming our communicator." She opened a concealed cabinet, apparently part of the bathroom wall, drew from it a couple of light but deadly looking blasters, and tossed one onto the contour chain in front of him. "You know how to work one of these things?" she asked. "Better drop the weapons," a quiet voice said from the doorway behind them. "You haven't got a chance." The speaker wore the light blue tunicall that was the summer uniform of the Army of the Republic of North America. His cap and shoulder-boards were bright with silver lace and he held a singularly ugly little automatic weapon cradled across one forearm. Nina and Lindsay dropped their weapons. But the girl's back was up. Her slanting eyes crackled green fire as she said, "What right have you bastards got to come busting in here without a warrant?" "Sorry," said the officer with do have a warrant. Remember, Miss Beckwith, this cottage is not United World's soil." He tossed an official looking document which Nina caught, motioned a couple of his men to pick up her weapons. "All right," she said after scanning the warrant. "What do you want?" "Ambassador Lindsay," was the reply. "We have been ordered to ensure that no harm comes to him while he is on American soil." "I can read!" snapped the girl. "There's going to be hell to pay over this." Then, to Lindsay, "We can't stop them now but they can't hold you. I can see to that. Just try to keep your big dumb blundering self out of any extra trouble till we can take steps -- will you promise me that, boss?" "I'll try," said Lindsay. ton -- or rather to Sherwood Forest, in Annapolis, where the summer White House sprawled over and beneath its landscaped acres. To a man from Mars it was very green, very lush, very beautiful. Lindsay's first impression of famed President Giovannini was that the famous elected leader of the North American Republic was composed mostly of secretaries. But at last one of them -- the seventh or eighth -- said gravely, "If you'll just step this way, please," to Lindsay and motioned for the Army officer to remain where he was. He was admitted to the bathroom of the man who had sent for him so summarily. The president proved to be unexpectedly like some of the governors of Lindsay's home planet -- incisive, unaffected, easily articulate. Physically he was stocky, of middle height, with a round, firmly fleshed sensitive face. He wore huaraches and bright blue shorts, no glasses or distortion harness. He waved Lindsay to a contour chair beside his own, said, "Sorry I had to have you hauled here this way. I was afraid you'd get killed if I didn't. Do you have any idea of the uproar you've caused in the past two days, young man?" Lindsay, somewhat taken aback by the president's abruptness, said, "Well, I knew some small groups were upset but..." "Take a look," the president told him, waving toward a quartet of vidar screens on the wall. Over one of them was the legend, New Orleans, over another, New York, over a third, Los Angeles, over the fourth, Chicago. "Those are live shots," Giovannini added. Lindsay was appalled. Each of them showed rioting crowds and defensive police action; the commentaries cried their confusion. However, the Martian got the drift quickly enough. Apparently his recent activities had driven the neurotic Earthlings to violence. There appeared to be two chief factions. One of them, smashing and swarming and screaming its outrage, was demanding the abolishment of computer government. The other, equally violent and even more numerous, was after a villain named Zalen Lindsay. Seeing that Lindsay was beginning to understand what was happening, the president pressed a button that turned off all the vidar screens and voices. He said, "I could switch to any of our other cities -- to cities in South America, India, Western Europe, England. They're especially bitter toward you in England." "I'm beginning to accept the fact -- if not to understand," said Lindsay. The president said, "Lindsay, from the point of view of your planet you have done nothing improper. But from the point of view of this planet..." He let silence and a shrug of thick shoulders finish the sentence. "I had no idea," Lindsay began, "that conditions on Earth... He let his own voice trail off. Giovannini finished it for him. "You had no idea people on Earth were so damned neurotic," he said, and sighed. Then, "Lindsay -- call me Johnny, will you? All my friends do -- Lindsay, for generations now people by and large have been forfeiting confidence in themselves to confidence in computers. "They have had good reason. Computer judgment has been responsible for the first true age of world peace in history. It may not be healthy but it's a damn sight healthier than war. And it has transformed this republic from an unwieldy group of states into a controlled anarchy that can be run by pushbuttons under ordinary conditions." He paused while the Martian lit a cigarette, then went on with, "Thanks first to Sylac, then to Elsac, we learned that Vermont was happiest under its Town Meeting method, North Carolina needed its oligarchy, while my native state, California, is much better off divided in two. Texas became happy with its triple legislature -- they never are happy unless they have a little more of everything down there. It was the same in other countries -- Canada, South America, Spain..." "And England?" Lindsay said softly. The president sighed again. "England," he admitted, "is a bit of a problem -- out of all proportion to its size and current importance. But the British are stubborn about their institutions. They've hung onto a Royal Family a hundred years longer than anyone else. We can hardly expect them to give up their beloved socialism so soon." "Just as long as Mars is not expected to pay for this indulgence, it's quite all right with my people," Lindsay told him. "What's your first name -- Zalen?" the president asked. "Well, Zalen, I know it's a problem but we all have to give a little or crowd somebody out. Zalen, people are getting killed on account of you right now." "I've nearly been killed a couple of times myself." "I know. Regrettable," said Giovannini. "The UW crowd never has understood security. That's why I had to kidnap you, Zalen. Couldn't have you killed, you know. Not now anyway." "Glad you feel that way, Johnny," Lindsay told him drily. "But hasn't it occurred to you that if people here are so easily set off it might be a good idea to knock out this computer business once and for all?" The president puffed on his cigarette. Then he said, "Zale, twenty years ago, maybe even ten, it could have been done. Now it's too late. dollar investment in Giac. We've got to give them an absolute computer, one that will remove forever the basic distrust of computer judgment that underlies the neuroses you just mentioned." "Quite possibly," said Lindsay. "But I haven't actually done a damned thing myself to undermine computer judgment. The mistakes have been made by the so-called experts who have fed their machines inadequate information. Those mistakes were infantile. They suggest some sort of neurosis on the part of the feeders. They could be mistake-prone, you know." President Giovannini chuckled again. "Of course they're mistakeprone, Zalen," he said. "Some of them, anyway. And it's getting worse. That's the real reason for Giac. Wait'll you see it!" "You think I'm going to be around that long, Johnny?" Lindsay asked. "I understand I'm to be sent back to Mars -- if I live that long." "No, Lindsay, we need you -- I'll explain in a moment. And we aren't going to let you die and become a martyr for generations of anti-computerites. We can't have that now, can we?" "I'll go along with you on it," said Lindsay, wondering what the president was leading up to. "Good!" The president beamed at him. "Zalen -- I want # vu to be the first person to put Giac through a public test. That's how much I trust that machine. I want you, the man who has fouled up two computers, including Elsac, to try her out." The governors of Mars might not approve but after the uproar he had caused on this mission they could hardly object. President Giovannini's scheme was fully up to that renowned statesman's reputation for political astuteness. The more Lindsay thought it over the more beautiful was its simplicity. Mere word that he was to conduct the first public test would quell the rioting. And unless Lindsay could show this mightiest of all symbolic logic computers to be fallible, computer rule would be entrenched on Earth as never before. But what if, in some way, he succeeded in confounding the computer? Lindsay shuddered as he thought of the rioting he had so recently witnessed on the vidarscreens. His face must have revealed his distress for the president said, "You're worn out, Zalen. Can't have that, you know. Not with the big test corning tomorrow." Lindsay barely remembered leaving the president and being led to a sleeping chamber somewhere in the vast mansion. When he woke up it was dark and Nina was perched on the edge of his contour couch, looking unexpectedly demure in a grey bolo with white collar and cuffs. He said, as articulate as usual when she surprised him, "Hi." "About time you woke up," she said. "Do you know you snore?" "I can't help it," he told her. Then, coming fully awake, "How the devil did you get here?" "I walked," she informed him succinctly. She stood up, her magnificent figure silhouetted against the light. "Better get dressed -- your duds are over there." She nodded toward a walldrobe. "I'll wait in the bathroom." She breezed out. When he looked at the clothing he was to wear he sensed that Nina had selected it for him. It was a little brighter in color, a little more daring in cut, than what he would have picked for himself. Nina was placing jewels carefully in her hair, which she had released to form a sleek halo around her magnificent head, when he entered the bathroom. A small palisade of glittering jeweled hairpins protruded from her mouth. She had shed her demure bolo and stood revealed in glittering black bodice-bra and evening skirt-clout. After placing the last jewel in her hair she swung about and said, "There -- how do I look?" "Gorgeous," he told her. "You look a bit dull," she said. She dug a box out of a travel-bag placed in a corner of the room. "Here," she said. "Put this on -- left side." "This" proved to be a magnificent sunburst decoration, a glittering diamond-encrusted star. He said, "What is it?" "Grand Order of the United Worlds -- a fine diplomat you are! I picked it up for you this afternoon before flying here. Just stick it on..." She came over, took it from him, pressed it firmly against his bolo till the suction grips caught hold. He put his arms around her. She let him hold her a moment, then pushed clear in the immemorial gesture of women dressed for a party who do not want to have their grooming mussed. "Not now," she said. "We'll have plenty of time." "Not for what's worrying me," he said. "Nina, I've got to put Giac through its paces in front of the whole world tomorrow. And I don't know what to ask it. I've got a blind spot where symbolic logic is concerned." "Don't fret yourself," said the girl calmly. "I'm not worried about you. Not after what you've managed to do to all the other computers you've faced. Come on -- we're having dinner with the president." "Who the hell are you anyway?" he asked her bluntly. "You don't even look the same." She laughed. "I should hope not," she told him. "After all, I could hardly grace the president's table as a mere UW secretary -- or as a New Orleans top model. Come on!" He went -- and got his second shock when President Giovannini greeted Nina with a manner as close to obsequiousness as that professionally free-and-easy politician could muster. He said, "My dear Miss Norstadt-Ramirez. I do hope you'll forgive me for ordering such summary action this morning. If I'd had the slightest idea..." "I was boiling," Nina told him. "I was just about ready to order Actnapolitan to pull the props out from under you when the riots started. Then I blessed your shiny little head and came up here." "I am honored," said the president. proceedings in a fog, was even more laconic than a clipped British envoy who, along with a recovered Senator Anderson, was a member of the party. "Don't take it so hard," Anderson whispered. "Nina is just about the best-kept secret in this hemisphere. If I weren't one of the few who's been in on it all along..." He shrugged eloquently. Lindsay said nothing. He couldn't. So Nina -- his fresh slatternly secretary, the courtesan of the world capital -- was also Coranina Norstadt-Ramirez, the heiress who owned almost half of Earth ! He felt like a quadruply-plated idiot. He knew about NorstadtRamirez -- who didn't, whether on Earth or Mars or the space-stations circling Venus while that planet's atmosphere was being artificially altered to make it fit for human habitation? She was a fantastic glamorous lady of mystery, the ultimate heiress, the young woman to whom inexorably, thanks to North America's matriarchal era during the twentieth century, the control of most of its mightiest corporations and trust funds had descended. And she was Lindsay's secretary. No wonder, he thought miserably, she had never sounded quite sincere about calling him boss. Why, she virtually owned his home planet as well. He watched her covertly across the table, poised, amused, alert, occasionally witty -- and so damnably attractive. He wished he were dead. She caught his regard, scowled and stuck her tongue out at him. He thought, Why, you little...! Somehow she got them out of the chatter after dinner, got him back to his suite. There, regarding him sternly, she said, "Zale, you aren't going to be stuffy about this, are you?" "I can't help it," he replied. "If you'd only told me..." He read sympathy in her green eyes. But she merely shrugged and said, "Result of a lifetime of keeping myself under wraps." She sat on a contour chair, patted a place for him alongside. She said, "I'm the richest single person there has ever been -- you know that. It isn't my fault. It just happened. I didn't deserve or want or need it. But it is a hell of a responsibility. Since I'm responsible for so much it seemed important to me to know how people felt. After all we act because we feel. And thanks to a few good friends like Fernando Anderson I've been able to get away with it." "Why me?" he asked her. "Why pick on me?" Her expression softened. One of her hands crept into his. "One of the nicest things about you, Zale, is the fact that you don't realise just how special you are." "I'm not so special on Mars," he told her. "No?" Her eyebrows rose deMartians select you as their first Plenipotentiary to the UW and you're not special? Zale, you're an absolute woolly lamb. "There's more to it than that. I've never been to Mars. I should have, but I simply haven't had the time. So I decided the best way to find out about Mars at second hand was to work with you in some capacity that would let you be yourself." "A filthy, underhanded, thoroughly feminine trick," he said gently and kissed her. Then, frowning into her green eyes, "But why are you so dead set against computer judgment?" "Isn't it obvious?" she asked. "I've got a tremendous stake in this world. Kicking around it as I have I've been able to see what is happening. I'm damned if I'm going to have my property managed and run by a bunch of people who make mistakes because they're too neurotic to make decisions. Look at them!" Her voice became edged with disgust. Lindsay said, "I see. Listen, honey, I'd like to sleep with you tonight." She looked surprised but not displeased by his bluntncss. "Of course, darling," she told him. "How much will it cost me?" he asked her. She froze -- then her eyes began to fill and she sniffled. He said, "You know I didn't mean that. Dammit, I just wanted to show you you're a neurotic yourself." She slapped him hard enough to tilt him off the contour chair. She rose haughtily, still sniffing. Lindsay stretched out a hand and caught one of her ankles and tripped her up. She tottered, gave vent to a startled, "Awk,!", fell backward into the pool-tub. He dived in after her, caught her when she came up, spluttering, gripped her shoulders hard. Her eyes blazed green fire at him. She said, "How dare you do that to me, you moron!" He said, "If I hadn't I'd probably never have seen you again." She collapsed into his arms. Later -- much later -- as Nina was about to leave him for her own suite, he asked, "Honeycomb, what did you lose that caused Fernando to give you that necklace?" "I nearly lost you," she replied from the doorway. "I bet him Maria wouldn't get you that night. And lost. So Fernando sent the necklace as compensation." "Quite a large compensation," said Lindsay drily. Nina shrugged. "Not for Fernando," she told him. "After all, I pay him enough. He's my number one political boy. 'Night, darling." breakdown himself by noon the next day, after Computation Minister du Fresne, looking uglier than ever, had finished conducting President Giovannini's official party through the rooms and passages of Giac. If Nina hadn't been by his side during and after the swift rocket trip to Death Valley, he might have collapsed. It was she who had removed the glittering star from his breast before breakfast in the Sherwood Forest mansion that morning. "You needed something to wear for show last night," she had told him. "Then it's not mine?" he had countered absently. "Of course it is," she had assured him. "But Secretary General Bergozza is going to make the official investiture after the test." Lindsay had meekly surrendered the bauble, barely noticing. His brain was straining to recall what he could of symbolic logic -- a subject that had never particularly interested him. For some reason it kept working back to Lewis Carroll, who, under his real name of Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, had been the founder of symbolic logic back in the nineteenth century, along with the renowned Dr. Poole. About all he could remember was the following problem: ( I ) Every one who is sane can do Logic; (#) No lunatics are fit to serve on a jury; (#) None of your sons can do Logic. The Universal was "persons". The symbols were: a -- able to do Logic; b -- fit to serve on a jury; c -- sane; d -- your sons. And the answer, of course, was: None of your sons is fit to serve on a jury. For some reason this, in turn, made him think of the ancient conundrum that employed confusion to trip its victims: What's the difference between an iron dog in the side yard of a man who wants to give his little daughter music lessons but is afraid he can't afford them next year, and a man who has a whale in a tank and wants to send him for a wedding present and is trying to pin a tag on him, saying how long he is, how much he weighs and where he comes from, but can't because the whale keeps sloshing around in the tank and knocking the tag off? This time, the answer was: One can't wag his tail, the other can't tag his whale. "None of your sons is fit to tag a whale -- or wag a tail," he said absently. "What was that?" Nina asked. "Nothing, nothing at all," he replied. "Merely a man going out of his mind." "It will never miss you," she replied brightly. But her brightness became a bit strained as the day wore on. The trip, for Lindsay, was sheer nightmare. No sane man can wag his tail, he kept thinking. Even such fugitive grasping at Logical straws vanished when he saw the immense squat mass of Giac, rising like a steel-and-concrete toad from the wastes of the California desert. It seemed absurd even to think that such an imposing and complex structure should have been reared on the mathematics of the immortal author of Alice in Wonderland , Through the Looking Glass and The Hunting of the Snark. For Giac was imposing, even to a man biased against computers from birth. Nor did du Fresne's smugness help Lindsay's assurance a bit. He explained how each of the block-large preliminary feeders worked -- one for mathematical symbols, one for oral recording, a third for written exposition. Each worked simultaneously and in three different ways -- via drum-memory banks, via punched tapes, via the new "ear-tubes" that responded to sound. Then there were the preliminary synthesizers, each of which unified in vapor-plutonium tubes the findings of its three separate feeders. Next, a towering black-metal giant twenty metres in each dimension, came the final synthesizer, which coordinated the findings of the preliminary synthesizers and fed them into Giac itself. The master machine was the least imposing of all. It stood like an alabaster stele in the center of an immense chamber arranged like a theater-in-the-round. But du Fresne, peering through his strawberry spectacles, said gloatingly, "Don't be deceived by the size, ladies and gentlemen. All but what you see of Giac is underground. It is contained in an all-metal cell And it is infallible." Fortunately Lindsay was given a half hour of final preparation in one of the small offices with which the above-ground building was honeycombed. Nina came with him -- by request. "I can't do it," he told her abruptly. "Don't worry, darling, you'll think of something," she said. She tried to embrace him but he was too worried to respond. After awhile she said, "Why not put a direct question. Ask it if it's infallible." "It could hardly tell a lie on itself," he replied. "What if such a question involved destruction of part of itself in the answer?" she asked. "It might -- though I presume du Fresne and his boys have prepared it for such jokers. And anyway, what sort of question would do that? Got any ideas?" "That's your department," she said helpfully. "You're the computer smasher of this team." "But that was pure luck," he said half-angrily. "One can't wag his tail... The other can't serve on a jury." She looked alarmed. "Darling," she said, "you aren't -- " "Not yet, Honeycomb," he said, "but give me time. "It's got to be something about this Mars-Earth problem," he went on after a long silence. "Listen: how can Mars develop if it's in the spot of the Red Queen -- has to run like hell just to stay where it is thanks to Earth's dumping policies?" and Maria Bergozza was with them. She said, "Apparently this is necessary." She was holding a glasspellet gun in her hand, pointing it at Lindsay. He said, "Why, you -- !" and moved toward her. Promptly the Secretary General's daughter pointed the gun at Nina's tanned midriff. He stopped. Maria said evenly, "It's you that have done this to me, Nina. You've had all the fun while I've had to pour tea for papa at his damned functions. You've fouled up our plans with your meddling down in New Orleans. And now you've taken Zale, as you take everything else you take a fancy to." "But you tried to kill him," said Nina. "Why should you care?" "He would have been a martyr -- and you wouldn't have had him," said Maria, her gun hand steady. "I know it's going to ruin me to kill you- -- but my whole life is ruined anyway. And this way at least I can sacrifice it for the cause." "The cause of interplanetary war?" said Lindsay, in his turn incredulous. Hot rage rose within him, "You third-rate tramp!" He stepped squarely into the line of fire, thrust his left breast in front of the muzzle of her gun. Behind him Nina screamed. But Maria didn't fire. Instead she sneezed -- sneezed and sneezed again. Her gun hand gyrated wildly as she doubled in a paroxysm and Nina moved past Lindsay to pluck the weapon from her. "Don't call me -- kmrashew ! -- third-rate," she managed to gasp before the blonde sent her sprawling with a very efficient right cross to the chin. Nina turned on Lindsay angrily. "You damned fool!" she almost shouted. "You might have been killed." He looked down, felt his knees turn to water. He said, "Omigod -- I thought I was still wearing the star. I remembered how you saved my life in New Orleans with your diamond evening bag!" He sat down -- hard. From the t floor Maria whimpered, "What are you going to do to me?" Nina said, "I ought to kill you, you know, but it would cause too much of a stink. So beat it and let us think. You'll be hearing from me later. What you hear will depend on how you handle yourself from now on. Understand?" When she had slunk out Lindsay said, "What broke her up?" Nina dropped the gun into her bag casually, said, "Now I know you're lucky, you thin slob. You happened to stumble right onto her allergy. She can't stand being thought of as a third-rate lover. That's why she's always been jealous of me -- because I have topmodel rating and she could never make it. She's too damned concerned with pleasing herself to please anyone else. She flunked out at fourteen." "Then why didn't you pull it?" Lindsay asked her, astonished. "Because," Nina said thoughtfully, "I'm not conditioned to think that way. It's horribly rude here on Earth to stir up other people's allergies. As you reminded me last night, you rat, we're all people in glass houses." "But I didn't even know..." muttered Lindsay. "You hit it though," she reminded him. "And you're going to hit it again out there in exactly five minutes." scious of the eyes of the vidar cameras upon him as President Giovannini, having finished his introductory speech, led him to the alabaster stele in the center of Giac's great central chamber and turned him over to du Fresne, whose official robe hung unevenly from the hump of his harness. Lindsay handed the Minister of Computation the question he had prepared on paper, was brusquely told, "Read it please. Ambassador." He cleared his throat and began. "I am asking a question highly pertinent to the welfare and future amity of the United Worlds," he said slowly. More specifically to the future amity of Earth and Mars. It is a simple question without involved mathematical qualifications -- but one that no computer and no man has thus far been able to answer correctly. "It is this continued failure of computers to come up with a logical answer in the full frame of interplanetary conditions that has done much to make the people of my planet feel that no computer is trustworthy to make decisions involving human beings." He paused, looked covertly at du Fresne, repressed a smile. The Minister of Computation was already showing signs of distress. He was shaking his head, making little pawing motions toward his glasses. "Here it is," Lindsay said quickly. "Should the governors of Mars, whose responsibilities lie at least as much in the economic improvement of their own world as in interworld harmony, permit their planet to receive goods which retard that economic development so that it becomes a race to maintain current unsatisfactory standards, merely because certain computers on Earth are fed false facts to permit continuation of some illogical form of government or social system -- or should the governors of Mars permit their planet to suffer because of computer illogic in the name of a highly doubtful status quo on the parent planet?" He walked slowly back to his place and sat down, almost feeling the silence around him. Nina whispered. "What in hell does it mean?" Lindsay whispered back, "It's a bit of the iron dog and the whale, a bit of the Red Queen, a bit of the suicide idea -- and something else. Let's see if it works." Lindsay watched du Fresne, whose moment of triumph was marred by his obvious discomfort. The twisted little man was very busy running the question into its various forms for submission to the feeder units, whose mouths gaped like hungry nestlings along part of one side wall. If du Fresne failed him... It was a long nervous wait. Lights flickered in meaningless succession on subsidiary instrument boards and du Fresne darted about like a bespectacled buzzard, studying first this set of symbols, then that one. Lindsay glanced at Maria, who sat huddled beside her father beyond the president. To break the suspense he whispered to Nina, "What about her?" Nina whispered back, "I've got it taped. I'm going to give her a nice empty job on the moon -- one with a big title attached. It will get her out of the way -- she can't do any harm there -- and make her feel she's doing something. Besides" -- a faint malicious pause -- "there are still four men to every woman on Luna. And they aren't choosy." "You're a witch," said Lindsay. He snickered and someone shushed him. Looking up he saw that things were happening. "In exactly" -- du Fresne glanced up at a wall chronometer -- "six seconds Giac will give its answer." They seemed more like six years to Lindsay. Then the alabaster stele in the center of the floor came abruptly to life. A slow spiral of red, composed of a seemingly endless stream of high mathematical symbols, started up from its base, worked rapidly around and around it like an old-fashioned barberpole's markings, moving ever upward toward its top. "Effective -- very effective," murmured President Giovannini. Suddenly a voice sounded, a pleasant voice specially geared to resemble the voice of the greatest of twentieth-century troubadors, Bing Crosby. It said, "Interplanetary unity depends upon computer illogic." There was a gasp -- a gasp that seemed to emerge not only from the company present but, in reverse, through the vidarcasters from the entire listening world. President Giovannini, suddenly white, said inelegantly, "Son of a bitch!" Nina laughed out loud and gripped Lindsay's arm tightly. "You've done it, darling -- you've done it!" she cried. "On the contrary," he said quietly, "I haven't done it; du Fresne did it." And as he looked toward the Minister of Computation that little man fainted. blanked out briefly, then once more the spiral of red figures began to work its way around and up the stele. And once again the pleasant voice announced, "Interplanetary unity depends upon computer illogic." It blanked out, began again. And this time, from somewhere in the building, came the thud of a muffled explosion. A spiral of green symbols began to circle the stele, then a spiral of yellow. The red reached the top first and the Bing Crosby voice began again, "Interplanetary unity de -- " The green and yellow spirals reached the top. A few seconds of sheer Jabberwocky emerged from the loudspeaker, ending in a chorus of, "Illogic, illogic, illogic..." with the words overlapping. Panic began to show itself. The president gasped and Maria suddenly shrieked. Frightened onlookers crowded toward the door. The president looked from the machine to Lindsay, bewildered. Lindsay got up and strode toward the microphone by the stele. He shouted into it, "Turn off the computer -- turn it off." And, moments later, while the angry hot glow of the stele faded slowly, he said, "People of Earth, this is Lindsay of Mars. Please be calm while I explain. There is nothing wrong with Giac or any of your computers." He paused, added ruefully, "At least nothing that cannot be repaired in short order where Giac is concerned. "I am going to ask to look once more at the question I submitted to this machine -- and to the language tape fed into it by the Honorable Mr. du Fresne." He waited while they were brought to him, scanned them, smiled, said, "No the fault was not with Giac. Nor was it consciously with Mr. du Fresne. The question was loaded. "You see, I happen to know that your Minister's belief in computers is such that he suffers an involuntary reaction when he hears them defamed. I defamed computers both in my preliminary address and in my question. And when he had to transfer to tape the phrase ' -- or, should the Governors of Mars permit their planet to suffer because of computer illogic in the name of a highly doubtful status quo on the parent planet?' -- when he transferred that sentence to tape he was physically unable to write the phrase 'computer illogic'. "Involuntarily he changed it to 'computer logic' with the result that the question was utterly meaningless and caused Giac's tubes to short circuit. None of the recent computer failures was the fault of the machines -- it was the fault of the men who fed them material to digest. "So I believe it is safe to say that you may rely upon your computers -- as long as they do not deal with problems affecting yourselves and ourselves. For those you need human speculation, human debate, above all human judgment!" President Giovannini, able politician that he was, had joined Lindsay at the microphone, put an arm across his shoulders, said, "I feel humble -- yes, humble -- in the great lesson this great envoy from our sister planet had taught us. What they can do on Mars we can do on Earth." When at last they were clear of the vidar cameras Lindsay grinned and said, "Nice going, Johnny -- you'll have more voters than ever come next election." Giovannini simply stared at him. His eyes began to water, his nose to run and he turned away, groping for an evapochief. Lindsay looked after him and shook his head. He said to Nina, who had rejoined him, "How about that? Johnny's in tears." "Of course he is," snapped Nina. "He's allergic to the word 'voters'. Night soil, but you're simple!" Lindsay felt his own eyes water. He sneezed, violently, for the first time since coming to Earth. Concerned, Nina said, "What's wrong, darling? Have I done something?" "If you ever say 'night soil' again..." he began. Then, "Krrachooooo!" He felt as if the top of his head were missing. Nina hugged him, grinning like a gamine. "I'll save it for very special occasions," she promised. Dark was the Ryzga mountain and forbidding; steep were its cliffs and sheer its crevasses. But its outward perils could not compare with the Ryzgas themselves, who slept within, ready to wake and conquer... By Robert Abernathy Illustrated by Kelly Freas . of the Ryzga mountain. Strangely it towered among the cliffs and snow-slopes of the surrounding ranges: an immense and repellently geometric cone, black, its sides blood-tinted by the dying sun. Neena shivered, even though the surrounding cold could not reach her. The ice-wind blew from the glacier, but Var's love was round her as a warming cloak, a cloak that glowed softly golden in the deepening twilight, even as her love was about him. Var said, "The Watcher's cave should be three miles beyond this pass." He stood rigid, trying to catch an echo of the Watcher's thoughts, but there was nothing. Perhaps the old man was resting. From the other direction, the long way that they two had come, it was not difficult to sense the thought of Groz. That thought was powerful, and heavy with vengeance. "Hurry," said Neena. "They're closer than they were an hour ago." She was beautiful and defiant, facing the red sunset and the black mountain. Var sensed her fear, and the love that had conquered it. He felt a wave of tenderness and bitterness. For him she had come to this. For the flame that had sprung between them at the Truce of New Grass, she had challenged the feud of their peoples and had left her home, to follow him. Now, if her father and his kinsmen overtook them, it would be death for Var, and for Neena living shame. Which of the two was worse was no longer a simple problem to Var, who had grown much older in the last days. "Wait," he commanded. While she waited he spun a dream, attaching it to the crags that loomed over the pass, and to the frozen ground underfoot. It was black night, as it would really be when Groz and his henchmen reached this place; lurid fire spewed from the Ryzga mountain, and strange lights dipped above it; and for good measure there was an avalanche in the dream, and hideous beasts rushed snapping and ravening from the crevices of the rock. "Oh!" cried Neena in involuntary alarm. Var sighed, shaking his head. "It won't hold them for long, but it's the best I can do now. Come on." There was no path. Now they were descending the steeper face of the sierra, and the way led over bottomless crevasses, sheer drops and sheer ascents, sheets of traitorous glare ice. Place after place had to be crossed on the air, and both grew weary with the effort such crossings cost. They hoarded their strength, helping one another; one alone might never have won through. It was starry night already when they saw the light from the Watcher's cave. The light shone watery and dim from beneath the hoary back of the glacier, and as they came nearer they saw why: the cave entrance was sealed by a sheet of ice, a frozen waterfall that fell motionless from the rocks above. They heard no sound. The two young people stared for a long minute, intrigued and fearful. Both had heard of this place, and the ancient who lived there to keep watch on the Ryzga mountain, as a part of the oldest legends of their childhood; but neither had been here before. But this was no time for shyness. Var eyed the ice-curtain closely to make sure that it was real, not dream-stuff : then he struck it boldly with his fist. It shattered and fell in a rain of splinters, sparkling in the light that poured from within. heard his footsteps, and finally saw him -- a shrunken old man, white-haired, with a lined beardless face. The sight of him, more marred by age than anyone they had ever seen before, was disappointing. They had expected something more -- an ancient giant, a tower of wisdom and strength. The Watcher was four hundred years old ; beside him even Groz, who had always seemed so ancient, was like a boy. The Watcher peered at them in turn. "Welcome," he said in a cracked voice. He did not speak again; the rest of his conversation was in thought only. "Welcome indeed. I am too much alone here." "You were asleep!" said Var. Shock made his thought accusing, though he had not meant to be. The old man grinned toothlessly. "Never fear. Asleep or awake, I watch. Come in! You're letting in the wind." Inside the cave it was warm as summer. Var saw with some surprise that all the walls were sheathed in ice -- warm to the touch, bound fast against melting by the Watcher's will. Light blazed in reflections from the ice walls, till there was no shadow in the place. Behind them began a tinkling of falling water, thawed from the glacial ridges above to descend sheetwise over the cave mouth, freezing as it fell into lengthening icicles. The old man gazed at his work for a moment, then turned questioningly to the young pair. "We need a little rest out of the cold," said Var. "And food, if you can spare it. We're pursued." "Yes, yes. You shall have what I can give you. Make yourselves comfortable, and in one minute... Pursued, eh? A pity. I see the world is as bad as it was when I was last in it." Hot food and drink were before them almost at once. The Watcher regarded them with compassion as their eyes brightened and some of the shadow of weariness lifted from them. "You have stolen your enemy's daughter, no doubt, young man? Such things happened when I was young." Warming to the old man now, Var sketched his and Neena's history briefly. "We should have been safe among my people by now. And before very long, I'm sure, I would have performed some deed which Groz would recognize as a worthy exploit, and would thus have healed the feud between our families. But our flight was found out too soon. They cut us off and forced us into the mountains, and now they are only a few hours behind us." "A pity, indeed. I would like to help you -- but, you understand, I am the Mountain Watcher. I must be above feuds and families." Var nodded somberly, thinking that an old recluse would in any case be able to do little for them against Groz and his violent kinsfolk. "And what will you do now?" Var grinned mirthlessly. "We haven't much choice, since they're overtaking us. I have only one idea left: we can go where Groz may 'fear to follow us." "To the mountain, you mean." "And into it, if need be." The Watcher was broodingly silent; his eyes shifted to Neena, where she nestled by Var's side. He to follow your lover in this?" Neena returned his gaze without flinching; then she looked sidelong at Var, and her lips curled with a proud and tender mockery. "Follow? Why , I will lead, if his courage should fail him." part of my duty to dissuade you from this thing. You are free persons. But I must be sure that you know what you are doing. That is the second part of the law the First Watcher made: to guard lest the unwary and the ignorant should bring harm on themselves and on all men." "We know the stories," Var said brusquely. "In the hollow heart of their mountain the Ryzgas sleep, as they chose to do when their world crumbled. But if they are wakened, the mountain will tremble, and the Ryzgas will come forth." "Do you believe that?" "As one believes stories." "It is true," said the Watcher heavily. "In my youth I penetrated farther into the mountain than anyone before, farther even than did the First Watcher. I did not see the sleepers, nor will any man until they come again, but I met their sentries, the sentinel machines that guard them now as they have for two thousand years. When I had gone that far, the mountain began to shake, the force that is in the Earth rumbled below, and I returned in time." Now for the first time Var sensed the power in the old man's look, the power of four hundred years' wisdom, Var stared down at his hands. "The Ryzgas also were men," said the Watcher. "But they were such a race as the world has not seen before or since. There were tyrannies before the Ryzgas, there was lust for power, and atrocious cruelty; but such tyranny, power, and cruelty as theirs, had never been known. They ruled the Earth for four generations, and the Earth was too little for them. They laid the world waste, stripped it of metals and feuls and bored to its heart for energy, poisoned its seas and its air with the fume of their works, wrung its peoples dry for their labor... and in each of those four generations they launched a ship of space. They were great and evil as no other people has been, because they wanted the stars. "Because of them we must build with dreams instead of iron, and our only fire is that of the Sun, and even now, two thousand years later, the Earth is still slowly recovering from the pangs and poison of that age. If you turn up the sod in the plain where the wild herds graze, you will find numberless fragments of rusted or corroded metal, bits of glass and strange plastic substances, debris of artifacts still showing the marks of their shaping -- the scattered wreckage of the things they made. And we -- we too are a remnant, the descendants of the few out of all humanity that survived when the Ryzgas' world went down in flame and thunder. "In the last generation of their power the Ryzgas knew by their science that the race of man would endure them no longer. They made ready their weapons, they mined the cities and the factories for destruction, making sure that their works and their knowledge would perish with them. Meanwhile they redoubled the yoke and the punishments, hastening the completion of the last of the starships. "From the memories that the old Watchers have left here, and from the memories of dead men that still echo in the air, I have gathered a picture of that world's end. I will show it to you... stirring, with wide vacant eyes, while the old man wove a dream around them, and the bright icecave faded from their vision, and they saw -- Black starless night, a sky of rolling smoke above the greatest city that was ever built. Only the angry light of fires relieved the city's darkness -- that, and the bluewhite lightning flashes that silhouetted the naked skeletons of buildings and were followed by thunder and a shaking of the earth. Along lightless streets, half choked with rubble and with the dead, poured a mad, hating horde. The recurrent flashes lit scarred faces, naked bodies blackened and maimed fom the hell of the workshops where the Ryzgas' might had been forged, eyes that stared white and half sightless from the glare of the furnaces, gnarled hands that now at long last clutched the weapons of the last rebellion -- a rebellion without hope of new life on a world gutted and smoldering from the fulfilment of the Ryzgas' dream, without slogans other than a cry for blood. Before them death waited around the citadel where the masters still fought. All round, from the lowest and most poisonous levels of the shattered city, the slaves the lightning blazed, and the city howled and screamed and burned. Then, unbelievably, the thunder fell silent, and the silence swept outward like a wave, from ruined street to street. The mouths that had shouted their wrath were speechless, and the rage-blinded eyes were lifted in sudden awe. From the center, over the citadel, an immense white globe soared upward, rising swiftly without sound. They had never seen its like, but they knew. It was the last starship. and it was leaving. It poised motionless. For an instant the burning city lay mute; roared ferocious threats and curses; others cried desolately -- ivait! Then the whole city, the dark tumuli of its buildings and its leaping fires and tormented faces, and the black sky over it, seemed to twist and swim, like a scene under water when a great fish sweeps past, and the ship was gone. The stunned paralysis fell apart in fury. Flame towered over the citadel. The hordes ran and shrieked again toward the central inferno, and the city burned and burned... shadowless glow of the ice-cave. His arm tightened about Neena till she gasped. He was momentarily uncertain that he and she were real and here, such had been the force of the dream, a vision of such scope and reality as Var had never seen -- no, lived through -- before. With deep respect now he gazed upon the bent old man who was the Mountain Watcher. "Some of the Ryzgas took flight to the stars, and some perished on Earth. But there was a group of them who believed that their time to rule would come again. These raised a black mountain from the Earth's heart, and in hollows within it cast themselves into deathless sleep, their deathless and lifeless sentinels round them, to wait till someone dare arouse them, or until their chosen time -- no one knows surely. "I have told you the story you know, and have shown you a glimpse of the old time, because I must make sure that you do not approach the mountain in ignorance. Our world is unwise and sometimes evil, full of arrogance, folly, and passion that are in the nature of man. Yet it is a happy world, compared to that the Ryzgas made and will make again." The Watcher eyed them speculatively. "Before all," he said finally, "this is a world where you are free to risk wakening the old tyrants, if in your own judgment your great need renders the chance worth tak  J J mg. Neena pressed her face against Var's shoulder, hiding her eyes. In her mind as it groped for his there was a confusion of horror and pity. Var looked grimly at the Watcher, and would have spoken; but the Watcher seemed suddenly a very long way off, and Var could no longer feel his own limbs, his face was a numb mask. Dully he heard the old man say, "You are tired. Best sleep until morning." Var strove to cry out that there was no time, that Groz was near and that sleep was for infants and the aged, but his intention sank and drowned under wave upon wave of unconquerable languor. The bright cave swam and dissolved; his eyelids closed. mered through the ice of the cave mouth. He had been unconscious, helpless, for hours! At the thought of that, panic gripped him. He had not slept since childhood, and he had forgotten how it was. He came to his feet in one quick movement, realizing in that action that sleep had refreshed his mind and body -- realizing also that a footstep had wakened him. Across the cave he faced a young man who watched him coolly with dark piercing eyes that were familiar though he did not know the face. Neena sat up and stifled a cry of fright. Var growled, "Who are you? Where's the Watcher?" The other flashed white teeth in a smile. "I'm the Watcher," he answered. "Often I become a youth at morning, and relax into age as the day passes. A foolish amusement, no doubt, but amusements are few here." "You made us fall asleep. Groz will be on us -- " "Groz and his people could not detect your thoughts as you slept. They were all night chasing elusive dreams on the high ridges, miles away." Var passed a hand across bewildered eyes. Neena said softly, "Thank you, Watcher." "Don't thank me. I take no sides in your valley feuds. But now you are rested, your minds are clear. Do you still mean to go on to the Ryzga mountain?" Not looking at the Watcher, Var muttered unsteadily, "We have no alternative." There was a liquid tinkling as the ice-curtain collapsed; the fresh breeze of morning swept into the cave. The youth beckoned to them, and they followed him outside. The glacial slope on which the cavern opened faced toward the mountain. It rose black and forbidding in the dawn as it had by sunset. To right and left of it, the grand cliffs, ocher and red, were lit splendidly by the morning sun, but the mountain of the Ryzgas drank in the light and gave nothing back. Below their feet the slope fell away into an opaque sea of fog, filling a mile-wide gorge. There was a sound of turbulent water, of a river dashed from rock to rock in its struggle toward the plain, but the curling fog hid everything. "You have an alternative," said the Watcher crisply. The two took their eyes from the black mountain and gazed at him in sudden hope, but his face was unsmiling. "It is this. You, Var, can flee up the canyon to the north, by a way I will show you, disguising your thoughts and masking your presence as well as you are able, while the girl goes in the other direction, southward, without seeking to conceal herself. Your pursuers will be deceived and follow her, and by the time they catch her it will be too late for them to overtake Var." That possibility had not occurred to them at all. Var and Neena looked at one another. Then by common consent they blended their minds into one. They thought, in the warm intimacy of unreserved understanding: "It would work: I-you would make the sacrifice of shame and mockery -- yet these can be borne -- that I-you might be saved from death -- which is alone irreparable ,... But to become I and you again -- that cannot be borne." They said in unison, "No. Not that." The Watcher's face did not change. He said gravely, "Very well. I will give you what knowledge I have that may help you when you enter the Ryzga mountain." Quickly, he impressed on them what he had learned of the structure of the mountain and of its guardian machines. Var closed his eyes, a little dizzied by the rapid flood of detail. "You are ready to go," said the Watcher. He spoke aloud, and his voice was cracked and harsh. Var opened his eyes in surprise, and saw that the Watcher had become again the hoary ancient of last night. Var felt a twinge of unfamiliar emotion; only by its echo in Neena's mind did he recognize it as a sense of guilt. He said stiffly, "You don't blame us?" "You have taken life in your own hands," rasped the Watcher. "Who does that needs no blessing and feels no curse. Go!" fog above blank abysses that hid the snarling river, crept hand in hand, sharing their strength, across unstable dream bridges from crag to crag. Groz and his pack, in their numbers, would cross the gorge more surely and swiftly. When Var and Neena set foot at last on the cindery slope of the great volcanic cone, they sensed that the pursuit already halved their lead. They stood high on the side of the Ryzga mountain, and gazed at the doorway. It was an opaque yet penetrable well of darkness, opening into the face of a lava cliff, closed only by an intangible curtain -- so little had the Ryzgas feared those who might assail them in their sleep. Var sent his thoughts probing beyond the curtain, listened intently, head thrown back, to their echoes that returned. The tunnel beyond slanted steeply downward. Var's hands moved, molding a radiant globe from the feeble sunshine that straggled through the fog-bank. With an abrupt motion he hurled it. The sun-globe vanished, as if the darkness had drunk it up, but though sight did not serve they both sensed that it had passed through to light up the depths beyond. For within the mountain something snapped suddenly alert -- something alive yet not living, seeing yet blind. They felt light-sensitive cells tingle in response, felt electric currents sting along buried, long-idle circuits... The two stood shivering together. The morning wind stirred, freshening, the fog lifted a little, and they heard a great voice crying, "There they are!" Var and Neena turned. Far out in the sea of fog, on a dream bridge that they could not see, stood Groz. He shook the staff he carried. It was too far to discern the rage that must contort his features, but the thought he hurled at them was a soundless bellow: "Young fools! I've caught you now!" Behind Groz the figures of his followers loomed up as striding shadows. Neena's hand tightened on Var's. Var sent a thought of defiance: "Go back! Or you'll drive us to enter the mountain !" Groz seemed to hesitate. Then he swung his staff up like a weapon, and for the two on the mountainside the world turned upside down, the mountain's black shoulder hung inverted above them and the dizzy gulf of sky was beneath. Var fought for footing with his balance gone, feeling Neena reel against him until, summoning all his strength, he broke the grip of the illusion and the world seemed to right itself. The mist billowed again and Groz was out of sight, but they could hear him exhorting his men to haste. Neena's face was deadly pale and her lips trembled, but her urgent whisper said, "Come on!" Together they plunged into the curtain of darkness. Neena froze instantly. "Feel that!" he muttered, and she, listening, sensed it too: the infinitesimal trickle of currents behind what appeared to be a blank tunnel wall, a rising potential that seemed to whisper Ready... ready... The sun-globe floated behind them, casting light before them down the featureless tunnel that sloped always toward the mountain's heart. Var summoned it, and it drifted ahead, a dozen feet, a little more -- Between wall and wall a blinding spindle of flame sprang into being, pulsed briefly with radiant energy that pained the eyes, and went out. The immaterial globe of light danced on before them. "Forward, before the charge builds up again!" said Var. A few feet further on, they stumbled over a pile of charred bones. Someone else had made it only this far. It was farther than the Watcher had gone into these uncharted regions, and only the utmost alertness of mind and sense had saved them from death in traps like this. But as yet the way was not blocked... Then they felt the mountain begin to tremble. A very faint and remote vibration at first, then an increasingly potent shuddering of the floor under their feet and the walls around them. Somewhere far below immense energies were stirring for the first time in centuries. The power that was in the Earth was rising; great wheels commenced to turn, the mechanical servitors of the Ryzgas woke one by one and began to make ready, while their masters yet slept, for the moment of rebirth that might be near at hand. From behind, up the tunnel, came a clear involuntary thought of dismay, then a directed thought, echoing and ghostly in the confinement of the dark burrow: "Stop ! -- before you go too far!" Var faced that way and thought coldly: "Only if you return and let us go free." In the black reaches of the shaft his will groped for and locked with that of Groz, like the grip of two strong wrestlers. In that grip each knew with finality that the other's stubbornness matched his own --  that neither would yield, though the mountain above them and the world outside should crumble to ruin around them. "Follow us, then!" They plunged deeper into the mountain. And the shaking of the mountain increased with every step, its vibrations became sound, and its sound was like that of the terrible city which they had seen in the dream. Through the slow-rolling thunder of the hidden machines seemed to echo the death-cries of a and blood before their monstrous and inhuman power. Without warning, lights went on. Blinking in their glare, Var and Neena saw that fifty paces before them the way opened out into a great rounded room that was likewise ablaze with light. Cautiously they crept forward to the threshold of that chamber at the mountain's heart. Its roof was vaulted; its circular walls were lined with panels studded with gleaming control buttons, levers, colored lights. As they watched light flicked on and off in changing patterns, registering the progressive changes in the vast complex of mechanisms for which this must be the central control station. Behind those boards circuits opened and closed in bewildering confusion ; the two invaders felt the rapid shifting of magnetic fields, the fury of electrons boiling in vacuum... For long moments they forgot the pursuit, forgot everything in wonder at this place whose remotest like they had never seen in the simplicity of their machineless culture. no life. They looked at one another, the same thought coming to both at once: perhaps, after two thousand years, the masters were dead after all, and only the machines remained? As if irresistibly drawn, they stepped over the threshold. There was a clang of metal like a signal. Halfway up the wall opposite, above a narrow ramp that descended between the instrument panels, a massive doorway swung wide, and in its opening a figure stood. Var and Neena huddled frozenly, half expecting each instant to be their last. And the Ryzga too stood motionless, looking down at them. height and stocky build, clad in a garment of changing colors, of fabric delicate as dream-stuff. In his right hand, with the care one uses with a weapon, he grasped a gleaming metal tube; his other hand rested as for support against the frame of the doorway. That, and his movements when he came slowly down the ramp toward them, conveyed a queer suggestion of weariness or weakness, as if he were yet not wholly roused from his two millenia of slumber. But the Ryzga's manner and his mind radiated a consciousness of power, a pride and assurance of self that smote them like a numbing blow. With a new shock, Var realized that the Ryzga's thoughts were quite open. They had a terse, disconnected quality that was strange and unsettling, and in part they were couched in alien and unintelligible symbols. But there was no block. Apparently the Ryzga felt no need to close his mind in the presence of inferior creatures... He paused with his back to the central control panel, and studied the interlopers with the dispassionate gaze of a scientist examining a new, but not novel, species of insect. His thoughts seemed to click, like metal parts of a mechanism falling into places prepared for them. The image occurred oddly to Var, to whom such a comparison would ordinarily have been totally strange. "Culture: late barbarism. Handwork of high quality -- good. Physically excellent stock..." There was a complicated and incomprehensible schemata of numbers and abstract forms. "The time: two thousand years -- more progress might have been expected, if any survivors at all initially postulated; but this will do. The pessimists were mistaken. We can begin again." Then, startlingly super-imposed on the cool progression of logical thought, came a wave of raw emotion, devastating in its force. It was a lustful image of a world once more obedient, crawling, laboring to do the Ryzgas' will -- toward the stars, the stars! The icy calculation resumed: "Immobilize these and the ones indicated in the passage above. Then wake the rest..." Var was staring in fascination at the Ryzga's face. It was a face formed hy the custom of unquestioned command; yet it was lined by a deeply ingrained weariness, the signs of premature age -- denied, overridden by the driving will they had sensed a moment earlier. It was a sick man's face. The Ryzga's final thought clicked into place : Decision! He turned toward the switchboard behind him, reaching with practised certainty for one spot upon it. Neena screamed. Between the Ryzga and the control panel a nightmare shape reared up seven feet tall, flapping black amorphous limbs and flashing red eyes and white fangs. The Ryzga recoiled, and the weapon in his hand came up. There was an instantaneous glare like heat lightning, and the monster crumpled in on itself, twitched briefly and vanished. But in that moment a light of inspiration had flashed upon Var, and it remained. As the Ryzga stretched out his hand again, Var acted. The Ryzga froze, teetering off balance and almost falling, as a numbing grip closed down on all his motor nerves. Holding that grip, Var strode across the floor and looked straight into the Ryzga's frantic eyes. They glared back at him with such hatred and such evil that for an instant he almost faltered. But the Ryzga's efforts, as he strove to free himself from the neural hold, were as misdirected and unavailing as those of a child who has not learned to wrestle with the mind. Var had guessed right. When Neena in her terror had flung a dream monster into the Ryzga's way -- a mere child's bogey out of a fairy tale -- the Ryzga had not recognized it as such, but had taken it for a real being. Var laughed aloud, and with great care, as one communicates with an infant, he projected his thoughts into the other's mind. "There will be no new beginning for you in our world, Ryzga! In two thousand years, we've learned some new things. Now at last I understand why you built so many machines, such complicated arrangements of matter and energy to do simple tasks -- it was because you knew no other way." Behind the hate-filled eyes the cold brain tried to reason still. "Barbarians... ? Our party was wrong after all. After us the machine civilization could never rise again, because it was a fire that consumed its fuel. After us man could not survive on the Earth, because the conditions that made him great were gone. The survivors must be something else -- capacities undeveloped by our science -- after us the end of man, the beginning... But those of us who chose to die were right." The tide of hate and sick desire rose up to drown all coherence. The Ryzga made a savage, wholly futile effort to lift the weapon in his paralyzed hand. Then his eyes rolled upward, and abruptly he went limp and fell in a heap, like a mechanical doll whose motive power has failed. Var felt Neena beside him, and drew her close. As she sobbed her relief, he continued to look down absently at the dead man. When at last he raised his head, he saw that the drama's end had had a further audience. In the outer doorway, backed by his clansmen, stood Groz, gazing first in stupefaction at the fallen Ryzga, then with something like awe at Var. Var eyed him for a long moment; then he smiled, and asked, "Well, Groz? Is our feud finished, or does your ambition for a worthy son-inlaw go beyond the conqueror of the Ryzgas?" The social engineer was only doing his duty when he tried to force Lansing out of his rut of habit and routine. He forgot that ruts themselves have a habit of turning in surprising directions! By Raymond E. Banks Illustrated by Paul Orban usual that morning, dressed, ate a poached egg for breakfast and paused for a moment before a mirror before he put on his oldfashioned hat. Ought to do something about those gray hairs, he thought. Plenty of men his age used Dyall ; it would make him look ten years younger. But some naturalistic, unhypocritical streak inside him made him put on his hat with a sigh and give up the thought as he had almost every morning for a year. He selected three luxurious South American cigars from his humidor and made a mental note to stop at the tobacconist's at noon to replenish the supply, according to his habit. He lit one, put the other two in his pocket, and caught the #:# to the city. Aboard the commuter's aircar he shoved a nickel in the slot, pulled out a facsimile paper and fell to studying the stock-market, especially his small Martian holdings and those new Venusian stocks that he had an eye on. "Your attention please! No smoking on the aircar!" The robot voice brushed uselessly against his ear as it did every morning. He continued to smoke, conscious of the envy of the other commuters who smoked less expensive brands. But they were married men who couldn't afford such extravagance. At the office he smiled good morning to his friends and sank into his place at the head of the Accounting Department. The newest computing machines in the office glowed on his desk; his swivel chair bore the largest, thickest seat pad even though his flanks were thin. It had taken him twenty years to achieve this comfortable status, and he sighed in delight at the delicious, knotty problems of the day lying before him. Then came the interruption. It came in the form of a small note that shot out of a communications cylinder on the side of his desk. "Under the provisions of Par #b of the Social Nonconformity Act, you, Franklin G. Lansing, will report to your social engineer without a second's delay. Urgent. Signed Watkins, Social Engineer, Ward Seven." Lansing made a sound in his throat which might have been a growl or might have been a snort. neer, had offices on the third floor of the Haymarket Building. Lansing stepped into the anti-gravity device and out again to find himself in a sumptious, institutional office. The furnishings struck him as decadent and the other patients sat around gloomily, creating an air of tension similar to that of a doctor's office. As a man with a secure job, money in the bank and a way of life that he liked, he did not act deferential when he faced Watkins across the broad, shiny desk. "What's wrong with my adjustment?" he asked without preamble. "I never have to come in except for the yearly check-ups." Watkins was a rotund man with piercing blue eyes. He regarded Lansing's thin, neatly-dressed figure with suspicion. "I'm afraid that's just the trouble," he said. "My social engineering reporters have been watching you, Lansing. Since the death of your sister, you've lived alone and liked it. You rise at a certain hour, eat your meals at the same places and turn in at a certain hour. Like an automaton. It's dangerous." Lansing let out a strangled squawk. "With all the people in New York that are getting into trouble because of poor adjustment I'd think you'd let a well-adjusted person alone. I'd think -- " Watkins held out a firm, fat hand. "Give me the key to your apartment."  Lansing felt the blood drain from his face. "Non-compulsion!" he gasped. "Exactly. It's our job to see that people like you don't crack up. Your kind is the most dangerous. A few days ago a man who'd never been in a speck of trouble all his life stole twenty thousand dollars and eloped with his secretary, a married woman. Thus he ruined three lives -- his own, the woman's and her husband's. Last week a man who had lived in the same place for twenty-five years and never caused any one trouble went out on the street and killed three people with a gun. People who were strangers -- that he'd never seen before. His excuse was that he didn't like redheaded people. Obviously a case of long, slow deterioration. "The whole purpose and meaning of the Social Nonconformity Act is to prevent these horrors. You, now, you have a compulsion to orderliness that is near insanity. You revel in routine. But the human mind and body cannot stand this supernatural order. Sooner or later you're going to crack as a result of your compulsion to drab order. We prevent that by forcing you into non-compulsion and breaking the routine of your life which you would be bound to break in a more dangerous way later. "Commit your act of passion now, Lansing, before it grows into one that is uncontrollable and disastrous!" The social engineer flung the non-compulsion license on his desk in front of Lansing. "But -- but," cried Lansing. "I don't want to commit any act of passion. I'm happy. I -- " The social engineer shook his head. "After all, Lansing, we're all human. And how long has it been since you've -- ah -- been in the company of a woman? How long since you've gotten drunk or had a real argument? No -- you'll have to give me the key to your apartment." Watkins' expression was triumphant and firm. Lansing, feeling like the Earth had been shot out from under him, handed over the key to his apartment and picked up the non-compulsion license... Building he ordered an unaccustomed early morning drink. When the bartender saw the non-compulsion certificate projecting from his pocket he slid another drink along the bar. "Better have another, Buster. On the house. I been in that mess myself. In my case they made me attend lectures and concerts and join the Chamber of Commerce." "I wish mine were that easy," said Lansing. Then he had another thought and called Mr. Hedges. Hedges was the district social engineer over Watkins. He was not a close friend, because Lansing disliked social engineers, but he had done Hedges' income tax for a number of years. Lansing worded his appeal carefully, hinting that Watkins was probably more than stupid. " 'Fraid there's nothing I can do," said Hedges. "It's true that people like you who run along quietly in a rut are likely to break down. There are exceptions, of course, but Watkins is within the law. Best thing to do is get it over with in a hurry." The man's hands sawed the air. "Do something big," he suggested and rang off. " aware that a couple of shadows that must be social engineering reporters followed wherever he went. An unaccustomed revolver weighted down his coat on one side. The gun was hot and he felt miserable. He hated scenes anyway, but -- Lansing took his place in a waiting line, still bound by his sense of propriety and order. The bank buzzed with activity, the lines moving with peristaltic life; a baby squalled, somebody coughed and the sunlight yellowed on the black marble desks. As usual, there was a man who had to purchase traveler's checks, so that the line Lansing chose moved slowest of all. People who had come in after him were serviced and left again. After an interminable wait he reached the window, his legs a little numbed from standing. He felt that the whole thing was already going badly. "I'm afraid this is a robbery," he told the teller, pointing the gun at her. He felt miserable, standing there with the gun in his hand, expecting the guards to move in and shoot without asking questions. The girl's eyes widened and then she saw the bit of green in his pocket. "Non-compulsion?" "Uh, yes. Please put up your hands." "How can I give you money if I put up my hands?" "Do as I say," frowned Lansing, his knuckles white on the gun. The girl lifted her hands. Lansing turned around to the people behind him. "This is a robbery," he said. "Er -- non-compulsion. Please put up your hands." Instead of complying, the people stared at him dully and then, with resignation, moved over to the other lines. A buzzer, sharp, insistent, rang out twice. The employees froze. "Everybody hands up!" shouted someone. "Non-compulsion." All employees' hands went up. The people waiting shot dirty looks at Lansing, knowing this meant delay. They did not raise their hands. The bank guard frowned and stepped outside the bank as required by custom, but remained glowering through the window to make sure it was a real non-compulsion. Somewhere a police car's siren began to wail, coming closer. The girl at the desk counted out two twenties and a ten. "Fifty is usual," she said. Then she quickly thrust up her hands again as he shoved the gun at her. He pocketed the money with one hand, feeling like a small boy standing before a class and reciting. "Thanks," he said, starting to move away. He wanted to get out in a hurry. "Wait a minute, mister," she said harshly. "I got to have the number of your non-compulsion license so we can get the money back." For the first time, Lansing began to feel somewhat unadjusted. "Ask the social engineers," he snapped. "They got me into this. They can pay." He strode out of the bank. A police riot squad was pulled up outside. The police stood around in hard-eyed silence, watching him sullenly. They didn't like noncompulsion either. Lansing, feeling ber, tossed his empty gun at a detective. "Here, go shoot up a social engineer," he said miserably and walked off down the sunlit street, his face burning with shame and sensitivity. If non-compulsion was supposed to stir up emotions, he was off to a good start. and blonde. Almost pretty, except that there were crow's feet around her eyes and mouth. But she would do. She showed surprise as he sat down at her lonely table. In the Terrace Room at the Kensington Hotel, lunch costs six dollars a plate, and you didn't sit at a stranger's table uninvited. A frowning waiter was coming towards him across the room and sunlight gleamed on the rug and sparkled from the heavy linen and silver. "What is the meaning of this?" said the woman, with hostility. Lansing was forced to drop his eyes from the clear gaze. "Noncompulsion," he muttered, his eyes darting to the unaccustomed luxusually had lunch at Eddie's where all was noise and clatter, and you were served by robot waiters. It made him feel uneasy to have a real, human waiter standing there, one of a vanishing race. "Is this man giving you trouble, Ma'm?" asked the waiter. The woman laughed a silvery laugh. "Don't be ridiculous," she told the waiter. She regarded Lansing with amusement. "I had fun on my non-compulsion," she said, "and I wouldn't spoil yours." Lansing held the menu with the same white knuckles that had gripped the unaccustomed gun. He had hoped she would drive him away. Even the menu bothered him. He was used to ordering from an electronic menu where you punched keys, not something written in French. "Give me -- the works," he told the waiter self-consciously. Then he sat there brooding while the waiter and the woman, whose name, he learned, was Doris Woodring, argued about his luncheon. He was sullenly aware of the two human bloodhounds that were the social engineering reporters just slipping into the far corner of the room... The food was very rich, and tasty, and Mrs. Woodring chatted with the easy social grace of the leisured. When Lansing mentioned his Martian holdings, they found a subject of common interest, for her husband was in finance. Suddenly the luncheon was quite enjoyable. "But then," laughed Mrs. Woodring, "that belongs to the part of your life you're trying to break away from. We should be talking about love instead." "Love?" he asked blushing, the flow of his enjoyment brought to a sudden halt. Her teeth sparkled in a smile as she blew pale blue cigarette smoke against the dense fog from his South American cigar. "Well, after all, from what you say, your social engineer will expect you to have a fling with women, you being a bachelor." "Er-fling -- yes," he said running a finger inside his collar. "What do you think we ought to do?" "Go somewhere where we can be alone, I suppose," she said, dropping her eyes to her plate. "I was going to a meeting of Concentrated Charities this afternoon, but it isn't important. We can go to my town apartment..." Lansing felt fear coursing through his body. His experiences with women had been few and not exciting. And when Mrs. Woodring stood up so that he got a good look at her and the way she handled her trim body, he became more frightened. It was obvious that her sleekness meant experience. A walk in the fresh sunshine of the park and a couple of drinks at a bar and they were admitted by a real, human servant to her uptown apartment. Mrs. Woodring went off to get some drinks and Lansing paced impatiently up and down. No! They asked too much. It was really too embarrassing. He flung himself to the television phone. Beside it was an address book. He fumbled with the pages, his heart beating in determination. He found the number he wanted and dialed. "Get me Mr. Woodring," said Lansing imperatively to the girl on the telephone. "It's urgent." Presently he was looking at a pleasant-faced man with dancing blue eyes, much like his wife's. "There's a man in your uptown apartment with your wife," he gasped. "There's a -- uh -- man in your -- uptown apartment." Woodring looked puzzled. "What man?" "Me," said Lansing in determined, self-defensive anger. Woodring studied him in suspicion and dislike for a second. Then the clouds broke and he smiled. "Oh," he said. "Well, thanks for the call. Would appreciate it if you'd lay off my brandy, old boy. It's a little low." Woodring had seen the corner of the non-compulsion license sticking from Lansing's pocket. "But -- but -- " said Lansing. "Don't worry," said Woodring. "Everything will be all right. You'll be all right. Excuse me, old boy, got lots of work to do -- " And Woodring rang off. Lansing sat there, feeling his inner palms sweat. without the servant but with the drinks. She was wearing a silver thing that could have been a house costume and could have been pajamas. It was silken and seductive. When she bent to pour, it was obvious that there wasn't much else. Lansing saw a button and punched in desperation. "What did you do that for?" she asked, sitting beside him on the sofa. "I want -- uh -- brandy," he gulped. The closed-mouthed servant appeared. "Brandy," Lansing ordered, trying to control his voice. "Er -- brandy." He tried desperately to think of some other reasons to keep the servant in the room. He could think of none. The servant poured the brandy and left while Doris studied him with a half-smile. "Perhaps you don't find me attractive," she said. "Very attractive," he exploded. "You couldn't be attractiver, er -- " She scooted up beside him. "Now look, Frank." she said seriously. "This is non-compulsion and you've got to get through with it or those damn social engineers will drive you crazy." Lansing nodded miserably, closed his eyes and trembled. The rosepetal lips touched his. Then she moved her supple body tight to him and she trembled excitingly in a burning kiss. It seemed -- er -- burning. However, that was all. After the embarrassment of a couple of kisses she pulled away and they fell to talking about his investments on Venus. Enough was enough, and obviously society couldn't cure one person's habit pattern by destroying the marriage-habit pattern of others. He realized this when he heard his shadows, the reporters, thumping around in the outer hall, still on guard, ready to prevent any real seduction. No wonder that other, quiet man had suddenly up and shot three redheads. His social engineer must've been a redhead, decided Lansing. He shook hands with Mrs. Woodring and left, feeling relieved and happy. At least he'd done enough to satisfy Watkins. It had been a strain but now they'd leave him alone. He arrived at his apartment with a sigh. The social engineering reporters were ahead of him, denying him entrance to his place. "Now wait a minute," said Lansing. "I've gotten more or less drunk, robbed a bank and kissed a blonde. If that doesn't take care of my hidden desires, nothing ever will, because each of these acts is a monumental disturbance for me, totally against the grain." "No," said one, "you haven't really committed an act of passion yet. True, you've done all these things, but you haven't felt them. Keep going -- it may take several days." "But where will I sleep tonight?" The reporter grinned. "Why not try a park bench?" Argument was futile. Lansing grimly plodded away. Sometime in the middle of the night he awoke with a sneeze. The park bench was hard. Besides, policemen kept waking him up to make him show his non-compulsion license. He turned over and sneezed again. He was going to have a cold. And when he had a cold -- Lansing contemplated the horror of his situation staring at the solemn moon. A great resolve and purpose took shape inside of him, firmed up and became a burning certainty... sneezing, he faced Watkins across the social engineer's gleaming desk. His unshaven beard itched and he felt dirty and completely miserable. "I want the key to my apartment back," he said. Watkins shuffled some papers. "I'm afraid these reports show that you haven't really cut loose yet, Lansing. You're the same timid, apologetic, routinized person you've always been." "I'm about to cut loose," said Lansing. His temples were throbbing, his mouth was dry. He sneezed once, and then he climbed up and walked over the top of Watkins' desk. He put his foot on Watkins' chest and shoved, and the fat man went over backwards in his swivel chair with a crash. A wild thrill of delight coursed through Lansing. "Help! He's gone mad -- " cried Watkins. "Mad! Mad!" yelled Lansing in delight, jumping down and punching the chubby figure. He hadn't laid an angry hand on a fellow-man since his second year in high school. The first punches were uncertain but he got the knack with astounding quickness and let Watkins have it in the face and body. "Here's your passion!" he roared slamming Watkins against the floor so the whole office shook. Watkins slumped on the soft rug in a bloody blubbering and suddenly Lansing felt the hate and excitement fade into a wonderful sense of contentment. He stood over Watkins, feeling his bruised hands with satisfaction. The familiar reporters rushed into the room. One of them covered him with a gun while the other jumped to the phone and called, first a doctor, then the police, and then Hedges, the district social engineer. Hedges listened, frowning, to the story; and then Lansing laid his non-compulsion license on Watkins' rumpled desk and said quietly: "Now can I have my apartment key back?" "You won't need your apartment!" yelled Watkins, sitting up on the floor. "You're going to jail for twenty years for this!" "Give him his key," said Hedges. "Watkins, I'm afraid you can't prefer charges. We social engineers have a higher duty -- to help our patients achieve adjustment. In this one case, the only passion Lansing could feel was against you. Since no permanent harm was done, he has acted within range of his non-compulsion license. Therefore, I pronounce him free." " ing from his cold all that Saturday and Sunday. He rose at #:# as usual Monday morning, dressed, ate a poached egg for breakfast and paused for a moment before a mirror before he put on his oldfashioned hat. Ought to do something about those gray hairs, he thought. Plenty of men his age used Dyall; it would make him look ten years younger. But some naturalistic, unhypocritical streak inside him made him put on his hat with a sigh and give up the thought as he had almost every morning for a year. He selected three luxurious South American cigars from his humidor and made a mental note to stop at the tobacconist's at noon to replenish the supply, according to his habit. He lit one, put the other two in his pocket, and caught the #:# to the city... Dusting Powder! It gives you that lovely, radiant, atomic look! It gives IF, out next month! The ultradrive had just one slight drawback: it set up a shock wave that made suns explode. Which made the problem of getting back home a delicate one indeed... Time Fuze By Randall Garrett Illustrated by Paul Orban his eyes on the rear plate as he activated the intercom. "All right, cut the power. We ought to be safe enough here." As he released the intercbm, Dr. Leicher, of the astronomical staff, stepped up to his side... "Perfectly safe," he nodded, "although even at this distance a star going nova ought to be quite a display." Benedict didn't shift his gaze from the plate. "Do you have your instruments set up?" "Not quite. But we have plenty of time. The light won't reach us for several hours yet. Remember, we were outracing it at ten lights." The commander finally turned, slowly letting his breath out in a soft sigh. "Dr. Leicher, I would say "oifSt SAf -- that this is just about the foulest coincidence that could happen to the first interstellar vessel ever to leave the Solar System." Leicher shrugged. "In one way of thinking, yes. It is certainly true that we will never know, now, whether Alpha Centauri A ever had any planets. But, in another way, it is extremely fortunate that we should be so near a stellar explosion because of the wealth of scientific information we can obtain. As you say, it is a coincidence, and probably one that happens only of any particular star going nova are small. That we should be so close when it happens is of a vanishingly small order of probability." Commander Benedict took off his cap and looked at the damp stain in the sweatband. "Nevertheless, Doctor, it is damned unnerving to come out of ultradrive a couple of first star ever visited by man and have to turn tail and run because the damned thing practically blows up in your face." Leicher could see that Benedict was upset; he rarely used the same profanity twice in one sentence. They had been downright lucky, at that. If Leicher hadn't seen the star begin to swell and brighten, if he hadn't known what it meant, or if Commander Benedict hadn't been quick enough in shifting the ship back into ultradrive -- Leicher had a vision of an incandescent cloud of gaseous metal that had once been a spaceship. The intercom buzzed. The commander answered, "Yes?" "Sir, would you tell Dr. Leicher that we have everything set up now?" Leicher nodded and turned to leave. "I guess we have nothing to do now but wait." When the light from the nova did come. Commander Benedict was back at the plate again -- the forward one, this time, since the ship had been turned around in order to align the astronomy lab in the nose with the star. Alpha Centauri A began to brighten and spread. It made Benedict think of a light bulb connected through a rheostat, with someone turning that rheostat, turning it until the circuit was well overloaded. The light began to hurt Benedict's eyes even at that distance and he had to cut down the receptivity in order to watch. After a while, he turned away from the plate. Not because the show was over, but simply because it had slowed to a point beyond which no change seemed to take place to the human eye. Five weeks later, much to Leirher's chagrin, Commander Benedict announced that they had to leave the vicinity. The ship had only been provisioned to go to Alpha Centauri, scout the system without landing on any of the planets, and return. At ten lights, top speed for the ultradrive, it would take better than three months to get back. "I know you'd like to watch it go through the complete cycle," Benedict said, "but we can't go back home as a bunch of starved skeletons." Leicher resigned himself to the necessity of leaving much of his work unfinished, and, although he knew it was a case of sour grapes. consoled himself with the thought that he could as least get most of the remaining information from the five-hundred-inch telescope on Luna, four years from then. As the ship slipped into the notquite-space through which the ultradrive propelled it, Lcicher began to consolidate the material he had already gathered. wrote in the log: Fifty-four days out from Sol. Alpha Centauri has long since faded back into its pre-blowup state, since we have far outdistanced the light from its explosion. It now looks as it did two years ago. It -- "Pardon me, Commander," Leieher interrupted, "But I have something interesting to show you." Benedict took his fingers off the keys and turned around in his chair. "What is it, Doctor?" Leieher frowned at the papers in his hands. "I've been doing some work on the probability of that explosion happening just as it did, and I've come up with some rather frightening figures. As I said before, the probability was small. A little calculation has given us some information which makes it even smaller. For instance: with a possible error of plus or minus two seconds Alpha Centauri A began to explode the instant we came out of ultradrive! "Now, the probability of that occurring comes out so small that it should happen only once in ten to the four hundred sixty-seventh seconds." It was Commander Benedict's turn to frown. "So?" "Commander, the entire universe is only about ten to the seventeenth seconds old. But to give you an idea, let's say that the chances of Benedict blinked. The number, he realized, was totally beyond his comprehension -- or anyone else's. "Well, so what? Now it has happened that one time. That simply means that it will almost certainly never happen again!" "True. But, Commander, when you buck odds like that and win, the thing to do is look for some factor that is cheating in your favor. If you took a pair of dice and started throwing sevens, one right after another -- for the next couple of thousand years -- you'd begin to suspect they were loaded." Benedict said nothing; he just waited expectantly. "There is only one thing that could have done it. Our ship." Leieher said it quietly, without emphasis. "What we know about the hyperspace, or superspace, or whatever it is we move through in ultradrive is almost nothing. Coming out of it so near to a star might set up some sort of shock wave in normal space which would completely disrupt that star's internal balance, resulting in the liberation of unimaginably vast amounts of energy, causing that star to go nova. We can only assume that we ourselves were the fuze that set off that nova." Benedict stood up slowly. When he spoke, his voice was a choking whisper. "You mean the sun -- Sol -- might..." say that it definitely would. But the probability is that we were the cause of the destruction of Alpha Gentauri A, and therefore might cause the destruction of Sol in the same way." Benedict's voice was steady again. "That means that we can't go back again, doesn't it? Even if we're not positive, we can't take the chance." "Not necessarily. We can get fairly close before we cut out the drive, and come in the rest of the way at sub-light speed. It'll take longer, and we'll have to go on half or one-third rations, but we can do it!" "How far away?" "I don't know what the minimum distance is, but I do know how we can gage a distance. Remember, neither Alpha Centauri B or C were detonated. We'll have to cut our drive at least as far away from Sol as they are from A." "I see." The commander was silent for a moment, then: "Very well, Dr. Leicher. If that's the safest way, that's the only way." Benedict issued the orders, while Leicher figured the exact point at which they must cut out the drive, and how long the trip would take. The rations would have to be cut down accordingly. Commander Benedict's mind whirled around the monstrousness of the whole thing like some dizzy bee around a flower. What if there had been planets around Gentauri A? What if they had been inhabited? Had he, all unwittingly, killed entire races of living, intelligent beings? But, how could he have known? The drive had never been tested before. It couldn't be tested inside the Solar System -- it was too fast. He and his crew had been volunteers, knowing that they might die when the drive went on. Suddenly, Benedict gasped and slammed his fist down on the desk before him. Leicher looked up. "What's the matter, Commander?" "Suppose," came the answer, "Just suppose, that we have the same effect on a star when we go into ultradrive as we do when we come out of it?" Leicher was silent for a moment, stunned by the possibility. There was nothing to say, anyway. They could only wait... A little more than half a light year from Sol, when the ship reached the point where its occupants could sec the light that had left their home sun more than seven months before, they watched it become suddenly, horribly brighter. A hundred thousand times brighter! Was he menace? Was he promise of a new, superior type of mankind? This great, golden, godlike youth whose extraordinary mutant powers combined the world's oldest and newest methods sale February #th. It was, Kirk thought, like standing in a gully, watching a boulder teeter precariously above you. It might fall at any minute, crushing your life out instantly beneath its weight. Your only possible defenses are your brain and voice -- but how do you argue with a boulder which neither sees nor hears ? 'mid pleasures and palaces By James McKimmey, Jr. Illustrated by Philip Parsons set apart, and nothing about might find human life. Yet just beyond, through a thorny bush shaped like an exploding rose, Kirk had seen eyes and nose and a flash of yellow hair that were definitely human. Kirk poised motionless. He was three miles from the rocket and Leo, who was waiting inside of it. He thought for a moment of how Leo had told him, as they made their landing, that this is the kind of planet where you could go no further. This is the kind of planet that could be the end of twelve years, and you'd better be careful, William, old sport. Kirk noticed a faint breeze; his palms were wet, and they cooled when the breeze touched them. He placed his palms against his jacket. Damn you, Leo, he thought. Damn your rotten fortune-telling. Kirk was superstitious when he was in space, and the memory of Leo Mason's cool, quiet voice saying "Watch it now, sport. Be careful, be careful..." seemed now like some certain kiss of fate. The bush trembled and Kirk's right hand flicked to his holster. His pistol was cold against his fingers and he let it fit loosely in his hand, the barrel half-raised. The bush shivered again, and then all at once the figure was rising from behind it, a tall wide figure with a very tan face, lined and toughened by the sun. The shoulders, bare like the chest, were massive, yet somehow stretched-looking, as though endless exposure to wind and rain and sun had turned the skin to brown leather. Kirk had his pistol pointing at the figure's stomach now, and the figure blinked, while the breeze touched and ruffled the long bleached hair. The figure raised a large hand, palm up, and curled the fingers. "Hello?" he said softly. Kirk was surprised by the word and the polite sound of it. Kirk remained motionless, pistol pointing. "Who are you?" he said through his teeth. "Harry," said the figure, as though Kirk surely should know who he was. "I'm Harry, of course." "Yes?" said Kirk carefully. "Harry?" The figure nodded. "Harry Loren, don't you know?" "Oh, yes," Kirk said, his eyes watchful. "Harry Loren." There was something about the man's eyes, Kirk decided. They were deep set and very bright within their sockets. They didn't match the softness of the speech. Harry Loren smiled and showed his yellow teeth. "Who are you?" he asked politely. as though he might be speaking to a frightened child, he thought, who help a sharp knife in his hands. Harry Loren nodded apologetically. "Oh, yes. I can't remember everyone. It's been so long. How are Kirk's eyes flickered. "I'm fine." "That's nice," Harry Loren nodded. His wild hair brushed over his shoulders and reflected its yellowness against the sun. The knife then, the one that Kirk had thought about a moment ago, appeared in the figure's hand. "Bastard," Harry Loren hissed, and he was leaping at Kirk, the knife making a sweep toward Kirk's stomach. Something kept Kirk from squeezing the trigger, and instead he swung his pistol so that it struck the brown, weathered knuckles. The knife flew into a thicket and Loren, screaming, was upon Kirk, reaching for Kirk's neck. Kirk wrenched backward and at the same time swung the barrel of the pistol toward the yellow flying hair. There was a cracking sound, and Harry Loren, brown and wild-looking, crumpled silently before Kirk's feet. Kirk examined the man, then he reached down and picked up the knife from the thicket. It was crudely hammered out from some kind of alloy, but sharp nevertheless, and it could have been deadly in a hand like Harry Loren's. Kirk looked again at the yellowhaired man on the ground. He was wearing some kind of ragged cloth about his waist and nothing else. Across his back, Kirk could see, was a curving scar, an inch wide and ten or twelve inches long. It was white and very noticeable against the brown of the man's skin. Kirk bent down, looking at the scar carefully. It could have been made during a crash of a rocket, but there were, he noticed, fine whiter ridges running along the length of the scar as though they had been made by fine comb-Kke teeth. A talon, perhaps. Some kind of strange claw. Kirk straightened quickly. It went through his head that Harry Loren might not be the only animal life on this planet. He tightened his hand on his pistol, stepping backward, his eyes darting. But he could only pivot slowly, trying to see, to discover, and he was much too slow when he finally saw it. It was only a flash of yellow and brown, making a hissing kind of sound. He felt the ripping along his right arm. The pistol was going out of his hand. And a swirling blackness got in front of his eyes. Harry Loren first, who was sitting up now, silent, motionless, with Kirk's pistol resting in his hands. To the side of Loren and just a little behind rested a peculiar-looking thing. It was alive because its head, shaped like a cone that had been attached to its neck, kept swaying gently back and forth. Tbe dark blue eyes, spaced back from the smallest end of the cone, were rather small with no lids. The creature's neck was long and thin, a multitude of shades of yellow and brown like the head, and the rest of the body widened out like a funnel and this area was covered with yellow feathers. It had what appeared to be arms and legs, long thin extensions of dark brown with large bony joints. At the end of each of these, Kirk could see a flat claw with rows of tiny comb-like teeth. Loren reached out and ran a hand softly along the creature's long neck. Kirk tried to think, testing his muscles without moving, and he remembered then the ripping along his right arm. He looked at the arm and at the way his jacket had been torn away along with the shirt beneath it. He could see the comb-like marking of his skin. The cut was not deep but it bled a little and stung. He tried to move his arm and found that he could. Kirk looked back to Loren. Loren stroked his hand along the thin neck of the creature. Kirk decided to try: "That's a nice looking animal, Harry." Loren's expression did not change. Kirk paused. From the looks of the man, Loren had been here a long time, a very long time. It had been a crash, probably. And all the years afterward of loneliness, all the time for the quiet but sure warping of the brain. He raised a hand quickly, watching Loren's eyes. Loren did not change expressions or move the pistol, but Kirk felt a comb-like claw touching his hand, freezing it to motionless with its razor tips. Kirk looked at the creature. The dark blue eyes were steady. Kirk lowered his hand slowly and the claw was drawn away. The creature's head resumed it's gentle swaying, and Loren's hand resumed its stroking. Kirk licked his lips. "Where have you been?" Loren said, his voice sudden and hoarse now. "Where have I been?" Kirk said, tight and motionless. "Why didn't you come before?" Kirk considered it. The dancing lights in the man's eyes, the highstrung sound of his voice were things to make you wary and careful. Kirk closed his fingers the slightest bit. "I didn't know you were here." Loren's lips thinned. "Liar." Kirk thought he might try a smile, to reassure Loren that he was telling the truth. He decided against it. "How long have you been here, Harry?" "How would I know?" Kirk thought of the endless nights and days when time ran together and there was no more separation of one time from another. Today would be tomorrow and tomorrow would be today. No changes. Endless. "Did you crash, Harry?" "Did you crash, Harry?" Loren mimicked, and for a moment Kirk felt a chill dancing through him as he watched the sarcastic leer of Loren's mouth. Kirk kept his tone polite, patronizing. "Was there anyone else?" Loren laughed, a laugh that bounced over the rocks and through the scrubs and bushes. "Was there, Harry?" "Oh, yes," Loren said, grinning and showing his yellow teeth. "Six. One, two, three, four, five, six. Would you like to see their graves? I've kept the graves pretty. I know where they are because I dug them." Loren remained in a half crouch, the fingers of one hand holding the pistol loosely, the other keeping up its monotonous stroking of the animal. His eyes seemed to become vacant for a moment, as though lost in the memory of the digging of six graves. Then they narrowed. "Where have you been?" Kirk tried to match his answer to the wants of the man. "I came as soon as I could." "You did?" "Yes," Kirk said. "I did." Loren's right hand stopped its stroking and his fingers tightened about the thin long neck of the animal. "Eddie?" he said. Kirk saw the animal's left claw whipping out. He ducked suddenly, but the claw ripped along his left arm. He tried to roll sideways, and then he lay, half sprawled, looking at the blood welling up from this new set of ripped ridges in his arm. He shifted his eyes to look at the animal, and he was quite certain that he could detect a small mouth fitting around the under side of the funnel-shaped head. It was only a line, but Kirk thought that there was a grinning look to it. "You didn't come as soon as you could," Loren said, his voice an angry trembling sound. "I did, Harry," Kirk said, still remaining in his half sprawl. "I really did." Loren replaced his hand on the neck of the animal, squeezing. "No, no," Kirk said, and he tried to keep the panic out of his voice. "Harry, I'm telling you the truth!" faint surface of his yellow teeth. He shook his head, slowly, back and forth, his fingers tightening about the animal's neck. "Harry, listen," Kirk said, watching Loren's squeezing fingers, "it's over now. You don't have to wait any longer. I'll take you back now. I'll take you home!" Loren froze, staring. "Home?" he said. "That's right," Kirk said. "That's right, Harry." "Home" Loren breathed, and his eyes were suddenly like a child's, wide and unbelieving. "The waiting's all over," Kirk said. "You don't have to wait any longer." "I don't have to wait any longer," Loren repeated softly, and his hand dropped from the neck of the animal. Kirk watched Loren and the swaying animal. "The rocket's ready," he said. Loren's eyes were lost in some distant memory. Gradually Kirk could see the eyes turn shiny with tears. "Is Annette waiting?" he asked. Kirk thought quickly. He knew Ithat what he was going to say shouldn't be said, because he had no right. But he was thinking of his own skin. "Why, yes, Harry," he said slowly. "I imagine Annette is waiting." Loren let a quick breath come through his teeth. "Annette," he whispered. "And Dickie?" "Dickie?" Kirk said. "Little Dickie?" Loren said and he held his breath. "Oh, yes," Kirk lied. "Of course." "I can't ask about Eddie, because we never had the chance," Loren said, his eyes still lost. "I always told Annette that no kid should ever grow up without a brother, only we never had the chance for Eddie." Loren reached out absently and touched the brown and yellow neck of the creature. "I called this fellow Eddie, though. Do you suppose that was all right? He's not very pretty." Kirk nodded, looking at the waving, funnel-shaped head of the animal. "That was all right, Harry." "Does she still braid her hair?" Loren asked, his eyes shiny. "What?" Kirk said. "Annette. Does she still braid her hair?" "Why," Kirk said slowly, feeling his palms going moist. "Why wouldn't she, Harry?" A faint smile flickered across Loren's lips as he remembered. Kirk watched one of the creature's claws, out of the corners of his eyes. He opened and closed the fingers of one hand, testing. The claw jerked slightly. The blood of Kirk's new wound was drying, he knew, because it had been only a surface cut. He. wondered how it would be if the thing used its claws with serious intent. Like it must have to make the cut that had been raked into Loren's back. Loren was bending forward now, and Kirk could see the tip end of that scar. Somehow Loren had managed to stay alive and befriend the creature. Eddie. The lidless eyes stared. Kirk knew that he had to make use of the moment. It could break apart any time, the wildness could return, the unreasoning... "Listen, Harry," he said, "we ought to get started, you know. There's no use waiting longer." "Started?" Loren said. "Of course," Kirk said, trying to keep his voice matter-of-fact. "You're going home." Loren looked at Kirk and his eyes turned suddenly hard and his mouth lost the faint smile. "I am," he stated flatly. "Yes," Kirk said. "Of course." "You're a liar." "Now, Harry," Kirk said, his eyes flickering to the waiting animal. "I surely wouldn't lie to you." "You haven't come for me until after all this time, and now you say you surely wouldn't lie to me." It was like standing in a gully, Kirk thought, watching a boulder teetering above you. It tipped this way and that, and you didn't know when or if it was going to come hurtling down. You waited. But Kirk couldn't wait, he knew. He had to do something. "Harry, listen. It wasn't easy to find you, don't you see?" He hoped he was making it sound as though all he had done for the last dozen years of exploring was look for Harry Loren. He wished that the damned thing would stop swaying its ugly head back and forth. Loren's hand was inching out toward the yellow and brown neck. "Look, Harry, these things aren't done in a day. We -- " "A day!" Loren hissed. "A day! All this time and you say a day!" "No, I'm sorry," Kirk said quickly. He wished he could shift out of the cramped half-lying position he was in. "I didn't mean a day, Harry. I meant it wasn't easy. We didn't know where you were -- " He was talking quickly, whining almost, and he'd never whined before. Loren's fingers were touching the waving neck. "We'd better hurry," Kirk said desperately. "Annette's waiting. And Dickie, of course." Loren blinked. "You wouldn't want to keep them waiting any longer, not after all this time, Harry." Loren stroked his fingers slowly down the long neck of the animal. "I think," Kirk said, almost hoarsely, "now that I really remember it, Annette was still wearing her hair braided. I remember that now, Harry. Positively." Loren froze the motion of his hand and stared at Kirk. His lips trembled, and then suddenly he put his hands in front of his face. He bent forward, and Kirk felt his nerves jumping, watching the man start to cry. The animal turned its stare away from Kirk for the first time. It looked at Loren and then slowly raised a claw, touching Loren's shoulder carefully. It made a sound then, a peculiar hissing sound, soft, barely audible. There was no danger in it, or menace, only a pitiful sound. Loren raised his head a little and brought his hands away from his face. Tears had cut through dust and grime and his face was streaked. "Shall we go, Harry?" Kirk said. Loren wiped at his eyes, stupidly, without knowing what he was doing. Then he brought his hands down and wiped them across his chest. "All right," he said. "Let's go." He picked up Kirk's pistol from where he had dropped it on the ground and held it out. Kirk looked at the gun and at the animal. The claw had been drawn away from Loren's shoulder and again it was poised, ready. "You keep it, Harry," he said." "Oh, yes. Of course," Loren said. There was a moment of silence as Loren stuck the pistol absently into the waist of his ragged cloth covering, beside the knife. The three of them waited then, Kirk, Loren, and the animal. "Eddie?" Loren said finally. "Are you ready?" the direction of the animal. He remembered when he was a small boy, going by a house where there had been a mongrel with a flat head and large teeth. He had smiled at that animal as he was doing now. The dog had sensed his fear in spite of the smile. Loren was standing up slowly, and the animal's head swayed in slow circling motions. "All right?" Loren said. Kirk glanced at the man, saw the wild, nearly vacant look of the face, the polite tilt of the head. Kirk's palms were wet. Goddamn it, he thought, and he stood up suddenly. The animal extended a claw, slowly, turning it so that it seemed to wind and circle as it came toward Kirk. "Eddie," Loren said. The claw came away. Kirk caught his breath. "Shall we go?" Loren said, his eyes shining. "Yes," Kirk said. "We'll go, Harry." He turned slowly, so that his back was to Loren and the animal. He thought about the comblike claws and the scar on Loren's back. He thought about Loren's knife and about the pistol. He wanted to look back as he walked. He wanted to talk, to hear Loren's answer and so know just where he was. More than anything he wanted to break into a run and get into that rocket and get out of here. He could see the gleam of the rocket finally, but he didn't look back yet. He kept moving. As he got closer he could see Leo, standing near the base of the ship, tall, leaning carelessly against the silver surface, smoking. He wanted to shout to Leo, to tell him for God's sake to wake up and protect him. They reached the edge of the clearing and Leo, whose careless body had stiffened, waited motionless, one hand on his pistol. Kirk stopped. "There it is, Harry," he said, not turning around. "There's the ship." He waited, half-closing his eyes, breathing slowly. There was no sound. "That's Leo, my friend, Harr)'," Kirk said, putting his palms flat against his thighs. "Your friend, Harry." Leo, Kirk could see, was still frozen, his eyes slitted to narrow brightness. Kirk began to step into the clearing. "Hello, there, Leo," he said, his voice a tense, grating sound. "I've brought some friends." Leo was lifting his pistol out of its holster, inchingly. "Friends," Kirk rasped. Leo's thin eyes flickered and the pistol slid back into the holster. Kirk turned around slowly, and he saw that Loren had stopped just inside the clearing. The animal remained beside him, its head making its slow circles. Loren was staring up at the rocket and the sun reflecting from the bright surface, came down and shown on Loren's face, deepening the lines there. "Leo," Kirk said slowly, "this is Harry Loren and his friend, Eddie. Harry's been here quite a while, waiting for us." "Oh, yes?" said Leo, still not moving. "That's right, Leo," Kirk said. "Quite awhile. What year was it, Harry?" he said across the clearing. "What year did you crash?" Loren blinked and there were tears again in his eyes. He reached out slowly, and the animal shifted so that its head touched Loren's hand. "Twenty-four-nineteen." Kirk put his teeth together. "Twenty-four-nineteen," he said. Loren nodded slowly, his eyes still upon the rocket. "Eighteen years," Leo said softly. "A long time, Leo," Kirk said. He thought of a girl with her hair braided about her head, looking up, while Loren had shot into the depths of sky and space. He thought of a little boy called Dickie, standing there, too, watching a fast disappearing blackness in the sky. He thought about eighteen years, and the fading of youth. A boy becoming a man. Braided hair becoming gray. Memories fading and minds adjusting. New love, new dedication. A world shifting, a universe shifting. Kirk looked at Eddie, the animal, real and alive, waiting patiently at the tips of Loren's fingers. "Eddie's been with Harry for a long time," he said. "Oh?" said Leo quietly. Loren's hand stroked the brown and yellow head. "Harry," Kirk said. "We're going to leave now. Are you ready?" Loren was silent. "You go up first, will you, Leo?" Kirk said. Leo looked at him, a faint frown touching his brow, then he began moving up the ladder to the air lock. Kirk waited until Leo had disappeared into the rocket, then he repeated, "We're going to leave now, Harry. Are you ready?" Loren remained motionless, his hand touching the animal's head. Suddenly he turned then and began moving slowly away through the brush, the brown and yellow creature bobbing beside him with queer rocker-like jumps. "Goodby, Harry," Kirk said. Finally he turned and climbed up the ladder. When he had gotten into his seat, he said, "Let's go, Leo," and he moved his hands to the controls. The rocket settled into the quiet motion of its course through space. "But I don't get it," Leo said. "I really don't. All that time, and then all he has to do is walk a dozen yards and get into the rocket and he's going home. That's all he would have to do." "Why?" Kirk said. "Why?" said Leo, frowning. Kirk nodded, looking at the man. "Why?" Tabby was peculiar, of course, but seemed harmless: just a little green fly that couldn't even protect itself from ordinary spiders. So the spiders fed, and grew, and fed, and grew... By Winston Marks Illustrated by Rudolph Palais April #, # heart you didn't sign on for this trip. Your replacement, who calls himself an ichthyologist, has only one talent that pertains to fish -- he drinks like one. There are nine of us in the expedition, and every one of us is fed up with this joker, Cleveland, already. We've only been on the island a week, and he's gone native, complete with beard, bare feet and bone laziness. He slops around the lagoon like a beachcomber and hasn't brought in a decent specimen yet. The island is a bit of paradise, though. Wouldn't be hard to let yourself relax under the palms all day instead of collecting blisters and coral gashes out in the bright sun of the atoll. No complaints, selves, and our little camp is very comfortable. The portable lab is working out fine, and the screened sleeping tenthouses have solved the one big nuisance we've suffered before: Insects. I think an entomologist would find more to keep him busy here than we will. Your ankle should be useable by the time our next supply plane from Hawaii takes off. If you apply again at the Foundation right now I'm sure Sellers and the others will help me get rid of Cleveland, and there'll be an open berth here. Got to close now. Our amphib jets off in an hour for the return trip. Hope this note is properly seductive. Come to the isles, boy, and live! -- Cordially, Fred May #, # sorry you didn't take my advice?!!!! I'm assuming you read the papers, and also, that too tight a censorship hasn't clamped down on this thing yet. Maybe I'm assuming too much on the latter. Anyhow, here's a detailed version from an actual eyewitness. That's right! I was right there on the beach when the "saucer" landed. Only it looked more like a king-size pokerchip. About six feet across and eight inches thick with a little hemispherical dome dead center on top. It hit offshore about seventy-five yards with a splash that sounded like a whale's tail. Jenner and I dropped our seine, waded to shore and started running along the beach to get opposite it. Cleveland came out of the shade and helped us launch a small boat. We got within twenty feet of the thing when it started moving out, slowly, just fast enough to keep ahead of us. I was in the bow looking right at it when the lid popped open with a sound like a cork coming out of a wine bottle. The little dome had split. Sellers quit rowing and we all hit the bottom of the boat. I peeked over the gunwale right away, and it's a good thing. All that came out of the dome was a little cloud of flies, maybe a hundred or so, and the breeze picked them up and blew them over us inshore so fast that Cleveland and Sellers never did see them. I yelled at them to look, but by then the flies were in mingling with the local varieties of sudden itch, and they figured I was seeing things. Cleveland, though, listened with the most interest. It develops that his specialty is entomology. He took this job because he was out of work. Don't know how he bluffed his way past the Foundation, but here he is, and it looks like he might be useful after all. He was all for going ashore, but Sellers and I rowed after the white disk for awhile until it became apparent we couldn't catch it. It's a good thing we didn't. A half hour later, Olafsen caught up to it in the power launch. We were watching from shore. It was about a half mile out when Ole cut his speed. Luckily he was alone. We had yelled at him to pick us up and take us along, but he was too excited to stop. He passed us up, went out there and boom! It wasn't exactly an A-bomb, but the spray hit us a half mile away, and the surface wave swamped us. Sellers radioed the whole incident to Honolulu right away, and they are sending out a plane with a diver, but we don't think he'll find anything. Things really blew! So far we haven't even found any identifiable driftwood from the launch, let alone Ole's body or traces of the disk. Meanwhile, Cleveland has come to believe my story, and he's out prowling around with art insect net. Most energy he's shown in weeks. M AY # -- Looks like this letter will be delayed a bit. We are under quarantine. The government plane came this morning. They sent along a diver, two reporters and a navy officer. The diver went down right away, but it's several hundred feet deep out there and slants off fast. This island is the tip of a sunken mountain, and the diver gave up after less than an hour. Personally I think a couple of sharks scared him off, but he claims there's so much vegetable ruck down there he couldn't expect to find anything smaller than the launch's motor. Cleveland hasn't found anything unusual in his bug net, but everyone is excited here, and you can guess why. When the "saucer" reports stopped cold about a year ago, you'll remember, it made almost as much news for a while as when they were first spotted. Now the people out here are speculating that maybe this disc thing came from the same source as the saucers, after they had a chance to look us over, study our ecology and return to their base. Cleveland is the one who started this trend of thought with his obsession that the flies I reported seeing are an attack on our planet from someone out in space. Commander Clawson, the navy officer, doesn't know what to think. He won't believe Cleveland until he produces a specimen of the "flyfrom-Mars", but then he turns around and contradicts himself by declaring a temporary quarantine until he gets further orders from Honolulu. The reporters are damned nuisances. They're turning out reams of Sunday supplement type stuff and pestering the devil out of Sparks to let them wire it back, but our radio is now under navy control, too. Sure is crowded in the bunkhouse with the six additional people, but no one will sleep outside the screen. AY # -- Cleveland thinks he has his specimen. He went out at dawn this morning and came in before breakfast. He's quit drinking but he hasn't slept in three days now and looks like hell. I thought he was getting his fancy imagination out of the bottle, but the soberer he got the more worried he looked over this "invasion" idea of his. Now he claims that his catch is definitely a sample of something new under our particular sun. He hustled it under a glass and started classifying it. It filled the bill for the arthopods, class Insecta. It looked to me, in fact, just like a small, ordinary blowfly, except that it has green wings. And I mean green , not just a little iridescent color. Cleve very gently pulled one wing off and we looked at it under low power. There is more similarity to a leaf than to a wing. In the bug's back is a tiny pocket, a sort of reservoir of the green stuff, and Cleve's dissection shows tiny veins running up into the wings. It seems to be a closed system with no connection with the rest of the body except the restraining membrane. Cleveland now rests his extraterrestrial origin theory on an idea that the green stuff is chlorophyll. If it is chlorophyll, either Cleve is right or else he's discovered a new class of arthropods. In other respects the critter is an ordinary biting and sucking bug with the potentials of about a deerfly for making life miserable. The high-power lens showed no sign of unusual or malignant microscopic life inside or out of the thing. Cleve can't say how bad a bite would be, because he doesn't have his entomologist kit with him, and he can't analyze the secretion from the poison gland. The commander has let him radio for a botanist and some micro-analysis equipment. Everyone was so pitched up that Cleve's findings have been rather anti-climactic. I guess we were giving more credence to the space-invader theory than we thought. But even if Cleve has proved it, this fly doesn't look like much to be frightened over. The reporters are clamoring to be let loose, but the quarantine still holds. with the botanist arrived we were able to gather all the specimens of Tabanidae viridis (Cleveland's designation) that he wanted. Seems like every tenth flying creature you meet is a green "Tabby" now. The botanist helped Cleve and me set up the bio kit, and he confirmed Cleve's guess. The green stuff is chlorophyll. Which makes Tabby quite a bug. Kyser, the youngest reporter, volunteered to let a Tabby bite him. It did without too much coaxing. Now he has a little, itchy bump on his wrist, and he's happily banging away at his typewriter on a story titled, "I Was Bitten by the Bug from Space!" That was hours ago, and we haven't learned anything sinister about the green fly except that it does have a remarkable breeding ability. One thing the reporter accomplished : we can go outside the screened quarters now without wondering about catching space-" typhus. probably a pretty good idea. Cleve has turned up some dope on Tabby's life cycle that makes us glad all over that we are surrounded by a thousand miles of salt water. Tabby's adult life is only a couple of days, but she is viviparous, prolific (some thousand young at a sitting), and her green little microscopic babies combine the best survival features of spores and plankton, minus one : they don't live in salt water. But they do very well almost anyplace else. We have watched them grow on hot rocks, leaves, in the sand and best of all, filtered down a little into the moist earth. They grow incredibly fast with a little sun, so the chlorophyll is biologically justified in the life-cycle. This puzzled us at first, because the adult Tabby turns into a bloodsucking little brute. Deprived of any organic matter, our bottled specimens die in a short time, in or out of the sunlight, indicating the green stuff doesn't provide them with much if any nourishment after they are full-grown. Now we are waiting for a supply of assorted insecticides to find the best controls over the pests. The few things we had on hand worked quite well, but I guess they aren't forgetting our sad experience with The Tabbies now outnumber all the other insects here, and most outside work has been halted. The little green devils make life miserable outside the tent-houses. We have built another screened shelter to accommodate the latest arrivals. We are getting quite a fleet of amphibian aircraft floating around our lagoon. No one will be allowed to return until we come up with all the answers to the question of controlling our insect invasion. Cleveland is trying to convince Sellers and the commander that we should get out and send in atomic fire to blow the whole island into the sea. They forwarded his suggestion to the U. N. committee which now has jurisdiction, but they wired back that if the insect is from space, we couldn't stop other discs from landing on the mainlands. Our orders are to study the bug and learn all we can. Opinion is mixed here. I can't explain the flying disc unless it's extraterrestrial, but why would an invader choose an isolated spot like this to attack? Cleve says this is just a "test patch" and probably under surveillance. But why such an innocuous little fly if they mean business? The newsmen are really bored now. They see no doom in the bugs, and since they can't file their stories they take a dim view of the quarantine. They have gotten up an evening fishing derby with the crew members of the planes. Have to fish after dusk. The Tabbies bite too often as long as the sun is up. Cleve has turned into a different man. He is soft-spoken and intense. His hands tremble so much that he is conducting most of his work by verbal directions with the botanist and me to carry them out. When his suggestion about blowing up the atoll was turned down he quit talk-' ing except to conduct his work. If things were half as ominous as he makes out we'd be pretty worried. here and none too soon. We were running out of drinking water. The Tabbies got so thick that even at night a man would get stung insane if he went outside the screen. The various sprays all worked well. This evening the air is relatively clear. Incidentally, the birds have been having a feast. Now the gulls are congregating to help us out like they did the Mormons in the cricket plague. The spiders are doing all right for themselves, too. In fact, now that we have sprayed the place the spiders and their confounded webs are the biggest nuisance we have to contend with. They are getting fat and sassy. Spin their webs between your legs if you stand still a minute too long. Remind me of real estate speculators in a land boom, the little bastardly opportunists. As you might gather, I don't care for brothers Arachnidae. They make everyone else nervous, too. Strangely, Cleveland, the entomologist, gets the worst jolt out of them. He'll stand for minutes at the screen watching them spin their nasty webs and skipping out to dejuice a stray Tabby that the spray missed. And he'll mutter to himself and scowl and curse them. It is hard to include them as God's creatures. Cleve still isn't giving out with" the opinions. He works incessantly and has filled two notebooks full of data. Looks to me like our work is almost done. # -- To whom it will never concern: I can no longer make believe this is addressed to my friend, Ben Tobin. Cleveland has convinced me of the implications of our tragedy here. But somehow it gives me some crazy, necessary ray of hope to keep this journal until the end. I think the real horror of this thing started to penetrate to me about June #. Our big spray job lasted less than # hours, and on that morning I was watching for the planes to come in for a second try at it when I noticed the heavy spider webbing in the upper tree foliage. As I looked a gull dove through the trees, mouth open, eating Tabbies. Damned if the webs didn't foul his wings. At first he tore at them bravely and it looked like he was trying to swim in thin mud -- sort of slow motion. Then he headed into a thick patch, slewed around at right angles and did a complete flip. Instantly three mammoth spiders the size of my fist pounced out on him and trussed him up before he could tear loose with his feet. His pitiful squawking was what made me feel that horror for the first time. And the scene was repeated more and more often. The planes dusted us with everything they had, and it cut down the Tabbies pretty well again, but it didn't touch the spiders, of course. And then our return radio messages started getting very vague. We were transmitting Cleve's data hourly as he compiled it, and we had been getting ordinary chatter and speculation from the Honolulu operator at the end of our message. That stopped on the sixth of June. Since then, we've had only curt acknowledgements of our data and sign-offs. At the same time, we noticed that complete censorship on news of our situation and progress apparently hit all the long-wave radio broadcasts. Up to that time the newscasts had been feeding out a dilute and very cautious pablum about our fight against Tabby. Immediately when we noticed this news blind spot Cleve went all to pieces and started drinking again. Cleve, Sellers and I had the lab tent to ourselves, having moved our bunks in there, so we got a little out of touch with the others. It wasn't the way Sellers and I liked it, but none of us liked the trip from lab to living quarters any more, although it was only fifty feet or so. Then Sparks moved in, too. For the same reason. He said it was getting on his nerves running back and forth to the lab to pick up our outgoing bulletins. So he shifted the generator, radio gear and all over to a corner of the lab and brought in his bunk. By the tenth of June we could see that the spraying was a losing battle. And it finally took the big tragedy to drive home the truth that was all about us already. When the crew got ready to go out to their planes on the eleventh, everyone except the four of us in the lab tent was drafted to help clear webs between the tents and the beach. We could hear them shouting from tent to tent as they made up their work party. We could no longer see across the distance. Everywhere outside, vision was obscured by the grayish film of webs on which little droplets caught the rors. In the shade it was like trying to peer through thin milk, with the vicious, leggy little shadows skittering about restlessly. As usual in the morning, the hum of the Tabbies had risen above the normal jungle buzzing, and this morning it was the loudest we'd heard it. Well, we heard the first screen door squeak open, and someone let out a whoop as the group moved out with brooms, palm fronds and sticks to snatch a path through the nightmare of spider webs. The other two doors opened and slammed, and we could hear many sounds of deep disgust voiced amid the grunts and thrashings. They must have been almost to the beach when the first scream reached us. Cleve had been listening in fascination, and the awful sound tore him loose of his senses. He screamed back. The rest of us had to sit on him to quiet him. Then the others outside all began screaming -- not words, just shattering screams of pure terror, mixed with roars of pain and anger. Soon there was no more anger. Just horror. And in a few minutes they died away. looked at each other. Cleve had vomited and passed out. Sparks got out Cleve' s whiskey, and we spilled half of it trying to get drinks into us. Sparks snapped out of it first. He didn't try to talk to us. He just went to his gear, turned on the generator and warmed up the radio. He told Honolulu what had happened as we had heard it. When he finished, he keyed over for an acknowledgment. The operator said to hold on for a minute. Then he said they would try to dispatch an air task force to get us off, but they couldn't be sure just when. While this was coming in Cleve came to his senses and listened. He was deadly calm now, and when Honolulu finished he grabbed the mike from Sparks, cut in the TX and asked, "Are they landing discs on the mainlands?" The operator answered, "Sorry, that's classified." "For God's sake," Cleve demanded, "if you are ready to write us off you can at least answer our questions. Are there any of the green sonsofbitches on the mainland?" There was another little pause, and then, "Yes." That was all. Sparks ran down the batteries trying to raise them again for more answers, but no response. When the batteries went dead he checked the generator that had kicked off. It was out of gasoline. The drums were on the beach. Now we were without lights, power and juice for our other radios. We kept alive the first few days by staying half drunk. Then Cleve's case of whiskey gave out and we began to get hungry. Sparks and Sellers set fire to one of our strawticking mattresses and used it as a torch to burn their way over to the supply tent about thirty feet away. It worked fairly well. The silky webs flashed into nothing as the flames hit them, but they wouldn't support the fire, and other webs streamed down behind the two. They had to burn another mattress to get back with a few cases of food. Then we dug a well under the floor of our tent. Hit water within a few feet. But when we cut through the screen floor it cost us sentry duty. We had to have one person awake all night long to stamp on the spiders that slipped in around the edge of the well. Through all of this Cleveland has been out on his feet. He has just stood and stared out through the screen all day. We had to force him to eat. He didn't snap out of it until this morning. Sparks couldn't stand our radio silence any longer, so he talked Sellers into helping him make a dash for the gas drums on the beach. They set fire to two mattresses and disappeared into the tunnel of burned webs that tangled and caved in behind them. When they were gone, Cleveland suddenly came out of his trance and put a hand on my shoulder. I thought for a moment he was going to jump me, but his eyes were calm. He said, "Well, Fred, are you convinced now that we've been attacked?" I said, "It makes no sense to me at all. Why these little flies?" Cleve said, "They couldn't have done better so easily. They studied our ecology well. They saw that our greatest potential enemy was the insect population, and the most vicious part of it was the spider. Tabanidae viridis was not sent just to plague us with horsefly bites. Tabby was sent to multiply and feed the arachnids. There are durable species in all climates. And if our botanist were still alive he could explain in detail how long our plant life can last under this spider infestation. "Look for yourself," he said pointing outside. "Not only are the regular pollenizing insects doomed, but the density of those webs will choke out even wind pollinated grains." He stared down our shallow well hole and stamped on a small, black, flat spider that had slithered under the screening. "I suppose you realize the spiders got the others. Down here in the tropics the big varieties could do it by working together. Sellers and Sparks won't return. Sounds like they got through all right, but they'll be bitten so badly they won't try to get back." And even as he spoke we heard one of the aircraft engines start up. The sound was muffled as under a bed quilt. Cleve said, "I don't blame them. I'd rather die in the sun, too. The beach should be fairly clear of webs. We've got one mattress left. What do you say?" He's standing there now holding the mattress with the ticking sticking out. I don't think one torch will get us through. But it will be worth a try for one more look at the sun. Strumming a harp while floating on a white cloud might be Paradise for some people , but it would bore others stiff. Given an unlimited chance to choose your ideal world, what would you specify -- palaces or log cabins? By Frank M. Robinson Illustrated by Paul Orban thanks again for the offer. As you can see, I'm kinda down on my luck. I know what you're thinking, but I'm not really on the bum. I usually make out all right -- nothing fancy, mind you, but it's a living. Odd jobs in the winter and spring, follow the harvests in the summer and fall. Things are slack right now. You? Electronics, huh? Used to know a fellow in electronics... His name was Joe Shannon, used to work for Stellar Electric up in Fremont. Young fellow, not more'n twenty-five or so. Rail thin, wispy hair, serious look -- you know, the one suit, absent-minded type. Joe was a brain. A triple-A, gold-plated, genuine genius. Had a wife named Marge. Not beautiful but pretty and a nice figure and a cook you never saw the likes of. Like I say, she was married to Joe but Joe was married to his work and after you'd been around a while, you could tell there was friction. But that ain't the beginning. I suppose I'm partly responsible because it started when I was over for dinner one night. I had been working in the garden and doing odd jobs around the house that afternoon and I finagled it so I was invited for supper. Marge Shannon made chili that I just couldn't stay away from. Thick with beans and meat and easy on the spices so it wouldn't burn an old man's stomach. Joe and I had just gone into the living room -- Marge stayed in the kitchen to do the dishes -- and I was feeling stuffed and kinda sleepy. All of a sudden Joe says out of a clear blue sky: "Harry, this is a hell of a world we live in, isn't it?" Now Joe had never struck me as being the unhappy type. He loved his work, he loved his wife (and just about in that order), and so far as I knew he didn't owe any money. So I tried to feel him out, to find out where the rub was. "There's nothing wrong with the world, Joe," I says. "It's just the people in it." his pipe and tamping down the tobacco and not saying a word and I get the feeling that he's deadly serious about something. "You're right," he says quietly. "It isn't the world, it's the people." I sit there feeling puzzled but a lot less sleepy and finally I ask: "Anything wrong, Joe?" He lights his pipe and settles back in the big, overstuffed easy chair with the flowered slip-cover that Marge made, still frowning. "It's an unhappy world," he repeats. "It all depends on what side of the picture you want to look at," I says, trying to cheer him up. "Maybe you been reading too many newspaper headlines." Joe wasn't listening. "What makes people unhappy, Harry?" that make people unhappy. Given half the night, I could maybe list a couple of hundred. But to narrow it down to one or two, I couldn't do it. So I just shook my head and let Joe carry the ball. "It's a complex world, Harry. A lot of people never adjust to it. Some of them turn the tables and try to adjust the world to them, which makes a lot of other people unhappy. No, I'd say there's a certain number of people who just don't fit in this world of ours. Maybe at a different time and on another world, they might fit. But they don't fit on this one, not right here and now." it that I had never thought of before. And Joe had a point. Now you take old Barney Muhlenberg, the town drunk. I knew Barney when he was a boy, and a more sober, adventure-seeking young rascal you never saw. But by then all the frontiers had dried up, it was between wars, and the only adventure Barney could find was in the bottom of a bottle. Barney was one of those poor folks born fifty years too late. Or you take Miss Alice Markey, the history teacher at Fremont High. She's an old spinster -- frail, white-haired, and a little bit crabby now. You'd never believe it but she used to be the romantic type. Somehow, the right man just never came along, but she's never given up hoping either. Sure, you wouldn't believe it to look at them. But that's how people are, down underneath. All dreams and wishful thinking. "It's tough, Joe," I says, "but what can you do about it?" It always seemed to me that you weren't going to help people by letting them fall asleep on a couch at fifty dollars a nap and trying to convince them they should give up their dreams. "You've got to give people something positive !" Joe says, hitting an end table with his fist so an ashtray jumps off. I sat up and began to take notice. Once Joe had an idea, he usually did something about it. "You got something in mind," I accused. He stopped pacing and pointed his pipe at me like it was the working end of a twenty-two rifle. "I got an idea, Harry," he says, the genius showing in his eyes like the dollar signs in a cash register. "I'm going to make a machine during my vacation and..." And then Marge is in the doorway, dishtowel in her hand and little anger spots in her cheeks. "Joseph Shannon!" she says, stamping her foot. "You know perfectly well what we're going to do and where we're going to go on your vacation!" Joe's mouth got set and I could see a storm blowing up so I struggled to my feet and got my hat. "That was awful nice chili, Missus Shannon," I says, and it isn't much more than two seconds later when I'm out the front door and walking up the sidewalk. man that he was -- stayed right in town during his vacation. He had a laboratory in the basement and every day when I went by I could hear him and Wally Claus, his assistant, working down there, hammering and nailing and running electric motors that spat sparks and whined worse'n two alley cats fightin' in a fish market. On the day that it's finished, Joe invites me over for dinner again. After the meal's over -- and Joe's so anxious that he don't even tell Marge how nice the tuna fish casserole was -- we go down into the basement. Marge doesn't come along. "What's the matter with Marge?" I ask. "Ain't she interested?" Joe jams his hands in his pockets, scowls, and says: "We've been having a little trouble, Harry. She doesn't see things my way." It isn't any of my business so I clam up and walk over to where the whole front half of the basement is curtained off with a couple of old sheets and a drawstring. "This is it," Joe says proudly, pulling on the drawstring. "The greatest invention since the wheel !" Well, to tell you the truth, son, I was kinda disappointed. I had expected something big and shiny but what there was looked a little like a cross between a phone booth and one of those things in train stations where you take your own photograph. I looked inside and all I could see was a big screen in front, like on a television set, a coin slot, and a funny looking hat with a cable leading out of it. "It's real nice," I says, not actually knowing whether it was or not. "What is it?" "I call it a Paradise booth," Joe says. I took another look at the machine, and then looked at Joe. It occurs to me that maybe he's been working too hard or that arguments with Marge have sorta unsettled him. "Look, Harry," Joe says, "remember when we were talking about all the people who didn't fit in this world?" "Sure I remember," I says. "What's this got to do with it?" "What if people could choose the type of world they wanted to live in?" I looks at him blankly. "I don't get it." He fishes around for his pipe and lights up. "How big's the universe, Harry?" "Now, son, I got no idea how big the universe is and I says so. All I know is that it's big. "Most scientists say the universe is infinite," Joe explains. "And if it's infinite, then it must have an infinite number of worlds in it. An actual world to match whatever kind of world you can dream up, let's say. All you have to do is step into the Paradise booth, put on the cap, visualize the kind of world you want to live in so it shows on the screen, and off you go!" "You're kidding," I says feebly. "You don't really mean it." He taps me on the chest with his finger and says: "Yes, I do really mean it, Harry. I've tried it and it works!" And there I thought I had him. "If you went off to another world," I says slyly, "just how did you get back?" "Built myself another machine," he says promptly. I snapped the trap shut. "Just picked this world out of all the millions there are? Just like that." Joe grinned. "I just thought of the damndest world that I could, and here I was!" Well, he had me. There wasn't much more I could say. Joe's idea, of course, was to build machines and put them on the street corners like you would newspaper stands. He figured that all the misfits and the unhappy people would sneak out and use them and whisht, off they'd fly to their own favorite world, leaving all us well-adjusted people behind. He even had a slogan figured out. "Paradise -- for only a quarter!' I You see, he figured he'd have to charge a quarter not only to pay for the machines but because people are just naturally suspicious of anything they get for free... up three of the machines and installed them on some of the better known street corners around Fremont. Joe had trouble getting a license to do it, but when he told the city fathers what the machines did, they figured the best way to discourage a crackpot was to let him go ahead and flop on his own. And he came close to doing it. Those booths just sat on the street corners all summer and gathered dust. People called them Shannon's folly, which didn't help things with Marge any. And then one day, Barney Muhlenberg disappeared. We thought he might have gotten drunk and fallen in the river and we spent a good two days dragging it. And then we looked in at his rooming house but we didn't find a thing except thirty-nine empty bottles and a rusty opener. It was Joe who first discovered what had happened. He got hold of me and we went down to the Paradise booth on the corner just opposite from Schultz's Bar and Grill. There was a quarter in the coin till and when I looked at the screen, I knew Barney had taken off. Well, everybody's happy. Joe's glad that his machine has finally caught on, Barney is probably happy playing Cowboys and Indians even though he's way too old for it, and the town is happy because its worst sanitary problem has just eliminated itself. The news gets spread around and everybody starts laying odds on who's gonna be the next to go. Nobody goes near the booths for about a week, and then the kids start passing around a rumor Saturday morning that Miss Alice Markey has submitted her resignation to the school board and is packing to leave town. The town splits. Half the people figure she'll be sensible and leave by bus. The other half, myself included, station ourselves at the Paradise booth that's nearest to her apartment. Along about noon, Miss Alice shows up. She's pale and determined looking, all dressed up to travel. Her suitcase is leaking little bits and ends of clothing and over her shoulder she's got a knapsack with her lunch in it. Always practical, Miss Alice was. "You aren't really thinking of leaving are you, Ma'm?" I ask, thinking it would be a shame for a good-hearted, hard-working school teacher like Miss Alice to leave Fremont. "I'll thank you to mind your own business, young man!" she says coldly, and marches into the booth and pulls the curtain shut. A moment later I hear a coin drop, there's a flash of bright blue light, and then dead silence. I was the nearest one so I lifts the curtain and peeks in. Miss Alice and her suitcase and knapsack have disappeared. I look at the screen even though nobody needs to tell me that Miss Alice Markey has whisked ofF to a world where all the men look like Rudolph Valentino and have a fondness for oldmaid school teachers. Sure enough, I was right... About mid-August, Joe comes around and he's looking mighty worried. "Harry," he says, "Wally Claus has disappeared." I mull it over for a minute. "It can't be what you're thinking," I says. "Wally's one of the most normal men in town." We go down to see Wally's wife and I begin to get the picture. Wally was one of those hard working, hard drinking Dutchmen with a family about three times as big as his salary. He worked at Stellar Electric with Joe and, like I say. sometimes he used to help Joe in his lab. "When was the last time you saw Wally?" Joe asks gently. Mrs. Wally is blubbering in her handkerchief and trying to hold a kid on her lap at the same time. Two more are hanging onto her chair, and about six others are standing around the room sucking their thumbs and looking wide-eyed at Joe and me. "It was p-payday," she blurts, the tears streaming down her fat cheeks. "Wally c-comes home drunk and all I do was quietly ask him for his paycheck. And that's the last I see of him. I d-don't know w-what got into him!" Anybody with half an eye, I thought, could piece together what had happened. Wally probably had one or two at Schultz's bar and got to feeling sorry for himself and then when he got home, he walked into a hornet's nest. Nine kids bawling or running around and Mrs. Wally nagging the life out of him. He must have wondered if it was worth it, then found a quarter in his pocket and walked around the corner to the nearest Paradise booth. Whisht -- and Wally's worries are a thing of the past. Joe and I get the idea at the same time and we chase down to the nearest booth. I took one look at the screen and blushed. Wally had some pretty wild ideas. On the way home, I tried to talk Joe into tearing the machines down. "How do you know where it's going to end, Joe?" I argues. "You can't tell who's well-adjusted and who isn't any more. And besides, some of those who ain't have contributed just as much to life as those who are. Maybe even more." "I'm going to leave them up," Joe says grimly. "The world will be better off without a lot of neurotics running around." "You won't think it over, Joe?" "No," he says, "and to prove it, I'm going to spend the next two weeks in New York looking for backing to put up Paradise booths all across the country." "What does Marge think?" I ask. "Hang Marge!" he says. Well, I just stood there in the middle of the block and watched him get smaller and smaller in the distance. I couldn't think of anything more to say and he wouldn't have listened to me anyways. I packed and left town that same night. The strawberry season was just coming on and I ain't never missed a harvest yet. A bout two weeks passed and I couldn't stay away any longer. I got back to town, took a look around, and then went down to the station to wait for Joe to come in on the flyer. I figured somebody ought to be there to break it to him gently. He gets off the train looking happy and successful and I figure he's made arrangements to put a Paradise booth in every city, town, and crossroads in the nation. "Why, hello, Harry," he says when he sees me, and gives me the old professional smile and handshake that really ain't the old Joe at all. "Any cabs around?" "No, there ain't no cabs around." Something in the way I says it makes him give me a sharp look. "How come? There's always a couple to meet the flyer." "There ain't none this time," I says. "No cab drivers." "No cab drivers?" "Ain't no need for 'em any more," I says. "Ain't no people in town to use cabs. Town's empty. Everybody's gone." He looks kinda green and says: "What do you mean, everybody's gone?" I shrugs and starts walking back to town. "Everybody took off," I says. "Your Paradise booths were real popular." He still looks blank so I give it to him straight. I had first thought about it when Wally Claus disappeared. It occurs to me then that everybody has times when they wish they could crawl out from under and quietly disappear. You see, Joe had assumed that some people were adjusted to society and some weren't. Well, actually nobody is, it's just a difference of degree. Once Wally took off, it sorta burst the dam. More and more people sneaked into the booths, dropped in a quarter, and whisht -- It was lonely and dark in town. No street lamps, of course. There was nobody down at the power plant to work the switches. And there weren't any lights in the houses 'cause there wasn't anybody around. "I can't imagine everybody going," Joe says, biting his lip. "What about all the kids?" "I kinda think they were among the first," I says. I waves at the starry sky. "There's probably a planet up there some place where there's nothing but hot rods and football stadiums. And I suppose there's one section of the universe fenced off for all the Junior Spacemen that'll be roaming around it." Anybody you could think of mighta had a reason for leaving, I told him. The boys at Schultz's probably took off for a world where Marilyn Monroe has a thousand twin sisters; and Johnny Douglas, the ace at Kelly's Bowling Alley, is probably located on a world where it's impossible to bowl anything but a three hundred game. By then, we were in front of Joe's house. It was as dark and curtained as the others. blinds had been drawn, the dishes neatly stacked and put away, and a note left on the doorstoop telling the milkman not to bring any more milk. The note to Joe was on the kitchen table. It was hard for Joe to read on accounta it was blurred in spots where Marge had been crying and the tears had fallen on the paper. It told Joe -- among a whole mess of other things -- that she thought she had married a man, not a radio set, and since everybody was using them she was going to visit a Paradise booth that night. "What am I going to do?" Joe asks remorsefully. "That's your problem," I says heartlessly, thinking of all the chili dinners that went with Marge. "You made the booths in the first place." "Yeah, I know." He pulls out a wad of papers from his pocket and thumbs through them. "I got contracts here for a Paradise booth in every town over five thousand popa month." "Joe," I says, suddenly frightened, "don't do it. Look what happened here in Fremont. Why man, if you put those things all over the country there wouldn't be a soul left in the United States after a month had gone by." "-You're right, Harry," he says. "Absolutely right." And he takes a cigarette lighter out of his pocket and sets fire to the papers and lets them burn 'til they're nothing but ashes. "What are you gonna do with the booths in town?" I ask. He goes down to the basement and comes up with a hatchet. "Gome on," he says grimly. "I'll show you what I'm going to do with them!" The first two we chop in small pieces until the walk is covered with cogs and wheels and smashed tubes and dials. We stop at the third one. That was the fanciest one of all, with the leather upholstery inside and the big red neon sign on top that you could read halfway across town. Joe stares at it for a long minute, then makes up his mind. He fishes around in his pocket for a coin. "What do you think you're going to do?" I asks, alarmed. "I'm going to look for Marge," he says. "I need a vacation anyways." "How you gonna find her, Joe?" I asks. "You don't even know what kind of a world to look for!" "Yes, I do," Joe says wistfully. "It'll be the kind of world where Marge always wanted to spend a vacation. Some place like up in Massachusetts during the summer. White beaches, little wooden houses, fishing boats and lobster pots... She's described it to me so often I could picture it down to the last pebble on the beach." He gets into the booth. "Think you'll ever be back, Joe?" I asks. He drops a quarter in the coin slot and a picture builds up on the screen of a beach with a little town in the distance. "Sure," Joe says confidentially. "We'll be back." And then there's a flash of blue light and Joe's gone, too. I hung around for a couple of days afterward but Joe and Marge never came back. I think he found her all right but Marge didn't want anything to do with the old world so they just stayed there. And that's about all there is, son. Except I've often wondered what happened when strangers drove through and found Fremont a ghost town... Now, lookahere, son, it's no cause for you to go calling me a liar just because you never heard of Stellar Electric and Fremont ain't listed on any map you've got. You didn't expect me to stay behind when everybody else had left, did you? I always had a hankerin" for a different type of world, too. A world where a body didn't have to work so blamed hard and listen to my stories and buy me a beer... Personalities in Science A Science Romance Began When Boy Met Flight turies as a primitive weapon, and many men have speculated on their possible use in carrying human beings to the stars. In practically all cases, such men have been laughed at as impractical dreamers. Today, however, rockets carrying instruments and animals can reach the heights of the stratosphere, guided missiles can come within inches of their pinpointed targets, jet planes can race through the air at twice the speed of sound and more, and the entire concept of interplanetary travel has become a seriously considered possibility rather than a vague dream. One of the men who deserves a great deal of credit for this change in the state of affairs is comparatively little known; his name is Theodore Von Karman. It was not Von Karman's own idea to visit the small, laboriously cleared field which was serving as Paris' first airport in #. He'd heard about the successful powered flight made three years before by the Wright brothers in America, but he hadn't devoted too much thought to the subject. It was a young French newspaper woman, thrilled by the unusual assignment, who talked Von Karman into going with her to witness the first really long flight of an airplane. Whether she had any more personal motives for the invitation will never be known. It is certain, however, that the keen-eyed young man with the aquiline nose succumbed to her blandishments, saw his first plane in flight, and found his only true love. The romance of the air had caught him in its grip, and there is scarcely an aspect of the sciences of aeronautics and astronautics that hasn't profited from the love affair that ensued. The nature of the air and the unknown rules governing its behavior have been the main field of inquiry for Professor Von Karman ever since that day in #. The turbulence, eddies and invisible whirlpools of the air have tremendous effects on any object moving through this medium -- a greater effect, even, than oceanic currents and tides have on the ships that sail the seas. Theodore Von Karman probed the turbulences, studied the vortex formations and developed the Theory of Vortex Streets, the actual mathematical formula for the effect of drag that these formations produce on objects present in the air. He studied not only the air and its behavior, but also the behavior of objects under the stresses and strains of high speed flight, and produced successful theories for the manufacture and design of planes that have revolutionized that industry with incredible speed in the short span of # years. Because of him mankind is flying higher, faster, farther, and more safely than even the most rabidly air-minded thought possible a short time ago. He developed, almost singlehanded the theory of the behavior of the boundary layers of air, the theory of buckling beyond the elastic limit, the theory of the deformation of curved pipes, and the nonlinear theory of the stability of thinwalled shells. All of these govern the design of present-day aircraft. son of a famed philosopher, he had received his mechanical engineering degree, taught in the schools, spent his compulsory year in the Austro-Hungarian army, and then taken a job as research engineer with a machine manufacturer in Budapest. After that fateful morning at the Issy-les-Moulineaux Airport, designing machinery held no charm for Theodore Von Karman. With scarcely decent haste he quit his job and enrolled at the University of Gottingen in Germany as a graduate student, and won his Ph.D. and a place on the teaching staff after two years of studying mathematics, physics, and mechanics. Max Born, the great physicist, was on the faculty at Gottingen and his interest in Von Karman's ability in theoretical physics was so great that the two men worked together for some time. The first modern theories of the specific heats of solids were the results of this collaboration. With the exception of time spent as head of research in the AustroHungarian Aviation Corps during World War I, he spent the years from # to # as director of the newly erected Aeronautic Institute at Aachen, and as consultant to such famed aeronautical pioneers as Junkers, Zeppelin, and other German aircraft manufacturers. In # the Guggenhein Foundation invited him to the United States for a visit and lecture tour. Between lectures he helped to construct the wind tunnel facilities at the Guggenheim Laboratories. Continuing on around the world after his stay in America, he introduced the first all-metal propeller and the first wind tunnel to Japan before returning to Aachen. Since he established his permanent residence in California in #, the Guggenheim Aeronaudeal Laboratory at Cal Tech under his direction has become tops in the field. The ground work for supersonic flight, a supersonic wind tunnel, and several far-sighted rocket projects were notable firsts in the field under his leadership. He was pioneering in the fields of rockets and jet propulsion long before they were thought feasible by military men. During World War II, Von Karman headed the Scientific Advisory Group and was special consultant to General "Hap" Arnold of the Army Air Forces. He also worked with the Ordnance Corps on the initial development of long range rockets. Despite his pioneering, and the proof his genius in his field, he was coldly turned down by numerous American manufacturing corporations when he tried to interest them in building and manufacturing rockets for the Army. To disprove the general notion that scientists are dreamers with no financial sense, and because he knew the Axis nations were far ahead of us in research on the use of rockets as weapons, he persuaded four of his associates from the California Institute of Technology to join him in a venture that the manufacturing brains of the nation had thought a "wild scheme." The five raised # among themselves and started the Aerojet Engineering Company at Azusa, Cal., with just five employees. In ten years the manufacture of the ten-inch thick by three-foot long rockets that help to get big, heavily laden planes off the ground had grown to a # business. Theodore Von Karman, who in addition to his theoretical work is an ardent teacher, philosopher and historian, has retired from the presidency of Aerojet and remains on as chief research consultant. That way he is able to spend what leisure time he has after teaching pursuing his favorite hobbies -- collecting antique furniture and adding to a collection of #-mm films which spans thirty years. The only devotion that Theodore Von Karman has allowed himself beside the work he loves has been given to his sister, Dr. Josephine Von Karman, who was his inseparable companion until her death. ( Continued from base # ) "next few years to supplement diets in areas which are not now supplied with sufficient protein for minimum health requirements. And Japan itself may well be the country with the first wide-scale use of artificially-grown algae as food. The advantages are clear: it's a chance to grow food containing no waste whatever, on land that is now and would otherwise remain completely useless for agriculture, on easily available inorganic chemicals. The first use of algae as food in the United States will probably be for fattening livestock, not human beings, but there's no reason to place the prediction made in our first paragraph outside the realm of possibility. Pettigill was, you might say, in tune with the world. It wouldn't even have been an exaggeration to say the world was in tune with Pettigill. T hen somebody struck a sour note... By Tom Leahy Mr. Bartle, come in. This is indeed a pleasure." His pinched face was lighted with an enthusiastic smile. "You know my name, so I suppose you know the Bulletin sent me for a personality interview," the tall man who stood in the doorway said in a monotone as if it were a statement he had made a thousand times -- which he had. "Oh, certainly, Mr. Bartle. I was informed by Section Secretary Andrews this morning. I must say, I am greatly honored by this visit, too. Oh heavens, here I am letting you stand in the doorway. Excuse my discourtesy, sir -- come in, come in," the little man said, and bustled the bored Bartle into a great room. The walls of the room were lined by gray metal boxes that had spools of reproduction tape mounted on their vertical fronts -- tape recorders, hundreds of them. "I have a rather lonely occupation, Mr. Bartle, and sometimes the common courtesies slip my mind. It is a rather grievous fault and I beg you to overlook it. It would be rather distressing to me if Section Secretary Andrews were to hear of it; he has a rather intolerant attitude toward such faux pas. Do you understand what I mean? Not that I'm dissatisfied with my superior -- perish the 'thought, it's just that -- " "Don't worry, I won't breathe a word," the tall man interrupted without looking at the babbling fellow shuffling along at his side. "Mr. Pettigill, I don't want to keep you from your work for too long, so I'll just get a few notes and make up the bulk of the story back at the paper." Bartle searched the room with his eyes. "Don't you have a chair in this place?" "Oh, my gracious, yes. There goes that old discourtesy again, eh?" the little man, Pettigill, said with a dry laugh. He scurried about the room like a confused squirrel until he spotted a chair behind his desk, "My chair. My chair for you, Mr. Bartle!" Again the dry laugh. "Thanks, Mr. Pettigill." "Arthur. Call me Arthur. Formality really isn't necessary among Mid Echelon, do you think? Section Secretary Andrews has often requested I call him Morton, but I just can't seem to bring myself to such informality. After all, he is Sub-Prime Echelon. It makes one uncomfortable, shall we say, to step out of one's class?" He stopped talking and the corners of his mouth dropped quickly as if he had just been given one minute to live. "You -- you are only Mid Echelon, aren't you? I mean, if you are Sub-Prime, I shouldn't be -- " "Relax, Mr. Pettigill -- 'Arthur' -- I am Mid Echelon. And I'm only that because my father was a man of far more industry than I; I inherited my classification." "So? Well, now. Interesting -- very. He must have been a great man, a great man, Mr. Bartle." "So I am told, Arthur. But let's get on with it," Bartle said, taking some scrap paper and a pencil stub from his tunic pocket. "Now, tell me about yourself and the Melopsych Center." "Well," the little man began with a sigh and blinked his eyes peculiarly as though he were mentally shuffling events and facts like a deck of cards. "Well, I -- my life would be of little interest, but the Center is of the utmost importance. That's it -- I am no more than a physical extremity that functions in accord with the vital life that courses through the great physique of the Center! No more -- I ask no more than to serve the Center and in turn, my fellow citizens, whether they be Prime, Sub-Prime, Mid, or even Sub-Lower!" He stopped speaking, affecting a martyr-like pose. Bartle covered a smile with his hand. "Well, Bartle, as you know, the Center -- the Melopsych Center, a thoroughly inadequate name for the installation I might say -- is the point of broadcast for these many taped musical selections contrived by Mass Psych as a therapeutic treatment for the various Echelon levels. It is the Great Psychiatrist -- the Father Confessor. For where can one bare one's soul, or soothe one's nerves and disposition frayed by a day's endeavor, better than in the tender yet firm embrace of music?" the train of thought that was lost in the camouflage of Pettigill's flowery phraseology. "You see all about you these many recorders, Mr. Bartle?" Bartle nodded. "On those machines, sir, are spools of tape. Music tapes, all music. My heavens, every kind: classical music, jazz, western, all kinds of music. Some tapes are no more than a single melodious note, sustained for whatever length of time necessary to relax and please the Echelon level home it is being beamed to. Oh, I tell you, Mr. Bartie, when the last tape has expended itself for the day, as our service code suggests, I leave this great edifice with a feeling of profound pride in the fact that I have so served my fellow man. You share that feeling too, don't you Mr. Bartle?" Bartle shrugged. Pettigill paused and looked at the watch he carried on a long chain attached to a clasp on his tunic. "A Benz chronometer, given to me by Section Secretary Andrews on the completion of my twentyfive years of service. It's radio-synchronized with the master timepiece in Greenland. It gives me a feeling of close communion with my superiors, if you understand what I mean." Bartle did not. He said, "Am I keeping you from your work? If I am, I believe I can fill in on most of this back at the paper ; we have files on the Center's operation." The little man hurriedly put out a hand to restrain Bartle who was easing out of the chair. "Not yet, Mr. Bartle," he said, suddenly much more sober. Then his incongruous pomposity appeared again. "My gracious, no, you aren't keeping me from my work. I just must start the MidLower Echelon tape. It won't take a moment. Tonight, they receive 'Concerto For Ass's Jawbone.' Sounds rather ridiculous, doesn't it? Be that as it may, there is a certain stimulation in its rhythmic cacophony. Aboriginality -- yes, I would say it arouses a primitive exaltation." He flicked a switch above the recorder, turned a knob, and pressed the starter button on the machine. The tape began winding slowly from one spool to another. "Is it 'casting'?" Bartle asked. "I don't hear a thing." Pettigill laughed. "My stars, no; you can't hear it. See -- " He pointed at a needle doing a staccato dance on the meter face of the machine. "That tells me everything is operating properly. Mass Psych advises us never to listen to 'casts. The selections were designed by them for specific social and intellectual levels. It could cause us to experience a rather severe emotional disturbance." A peculiar look came over Bartie's face. "Is there ever a time when all the machines run at once? That is, when every Echelon home is tuned to the melopsych tapecasts?" Pettigill registered surprise. "Why, certainly, Mr. Bartle. Don't you know Amendment #-B specifically states that all Echelon homes must receive music therapy at # hours every night? Of course, different tapes to different homes." "That's what I mean." 'Haven't you been abiding by the directive, Mr. Bartle?" "I told you I owed my classification to my father's industry. I am definitely lax in my duties." Pettigill laughed -- almost wickedly, Bartle thought. "What I'm getting at, is," Bartle continued, "what if the wrong 'casts were channeled into the various homes?" "I remind you, sir, I am in charge of the Center and have been for thirty years. Not even the slightest mistake of that nature has ever occurred during that time!" "That, I can believe, Pettigill," Bartle said, his voice edged with sarcasm. "But, hypothetically, if it were to happen, what would the reaction be?" The little man fidgeted with his watch chain. Then he leaned close to Bartle and said in a barely audible whisper, "This isn't for publication in your article, is it?" "You don't think the Government would allow that, do you? No, this is to satisfy my own curiosity." "Well, since we're both Mid Echelon -- brothers, so to speak -- I suppose we can share a secret. It will be disastrous ! I firmly believe it will be disastrous, Mr. Bartle!" He moved closer to the tall man. "I recall a secret administrative directive we received here twenty years ago concerning just that. In essence, it stated that, though music therapy has its great advantages, if the pattern of performance were broken or altered, a definite erratic emotional reaction would develop on the part of the citizens! That was twenty years ago, and I shudder to think what might be the response now; especially if the 'cast were completely foreign to the recipient." He gave a little shudder to emphasize the horror of the occurence. "It would make psychotics of the entire citizenry! That's what would happen -- a nation of psychotics!" "The fellow who didn't hear the 'miscast' would be top dog, eh, Pettigill? He could call his shots." chain faster between a forefinger and thumb. "No, he'd gain nothing," he said, staring as though hypnotized by the whirling, gold chain. "It would take more than one sane person to control the derelict population. Perhaps -- perhaps two," he mumbled. "Yes, I think perhaps two could." "You and who else, Pettigill?" Pettigill stepped back and drew himself erect. "What? You actually entertain the idea th -- " He laughed dryly. "Oh, you're pulling my leg, eh, Mr. Bartle." "I suppose I am." "Well, such a remark gives one a jolt, if you know what I mean. Even though we are speaking of a hypothetical occurence, we must be cautious about such talk, Mr. Bartle. Although our government is a benevolent organization, it is illdisposed toward such ideas." He cleared his throat. "Now, is there anything else I can tell you about the Center?" Bartle arose from the chair, stuffing the scrap paper and unused pencil back in his pocket. "Thanks, no," he said, "I think this'll cover it. Oh yes, the article will appear in this Sunday's edition. Thanks, Pettigill, for giving me your time." "Oh, I wish to thank you, Mr. Bartle. Being featured in a Bulletin article is the ultimate to a man such as I -- a man whose only wishes are to serve his country and his brothers." "I'm sure you're doing both with great efficiency," Bartle said as he apathetically shook Pettigill's hand and started toward the door. "A moment, Mr. Bartle -- " the little man called. Bartle stopped and turned. "I perceive, Mr. Bartle, you are a man of exceptional ability," Pettigill said and cleared his throat. "It seems a shame to waste such talent ; it should be directed toward some definite goal. Do you understand what I mean? After all, we're all brothers, you know. It would be for my benefit as well as yours." "Sure, sure, 'brother'," Bartle snorted and left. He started for the paper office but decided to let the story go until morning. What the hell, he had a stock format for all such articles. The people were the same: selfless, heroic type, citizens working for the mutual good of all. Only the names were different. And yet, this Pettigill had disturbed him. Perhaps it was something he had said that Bartle could not remember. and extracted the pre-cooked meal from the electroven. He ate with little relish, abstractly thinking of the foolish little cog in the governmental machine he had talked with that afternoon. Or was Pettigill that foolish little cog? Bartle could not help but feel there was something deep inside him that did not show in that wizened and seemingly open little face. He thought about it the rest of the evening. He looked at the clock on the night table -- # hours. "Pettigill's Lullaby Hour," he thought. Bartle chuckled and switched off the bed light. He was asleep before the puffs or air had escaped from under the covers he pulled over himself. When the phone rang at #, Bartle was strangely not surprised, although, consciously, he was expecting no call. "Hello," he said sleepily. "Bartle? This is Pettigill." The voice was Pettigill's but the nervous, timid, quality was gone. " I assume you did not hear the # 'cast?" "You assume correctly, Pettigill. What d'you want?" "Come on over to the Center; we'll split a fifth of former Section Secretary Andrews' Scotch." "What the hell do you mean?" "Were you serious about that 'therapy revolution' we were talking about this afternoon?" "I'm always serious. So what?" "Excellent, excellent," Pettigill laughed. "I've spent thirty years just waiting for such a man as you! No, I'm serious, my cynical friend -- what position would you like in the new government?" "Let's see -- why don't you make my descendants real peachy happy and make me, say. Administrator of Civilian Relations. That sounds big and important." "Fine, fine! Tell me, Bartle -- how are your relations with psychotics?" Bartle leaped to the floor. Instantly he recalled what Pettigill had said that had disturbed him. When they had been discussing the repercussions of a miscast, Pettigill had said, "it will be disastrous" and not "it would be disastrous." The devil had been planning just such a thing for God knows how long! "How many of 'em, Pettigill?" Bartle asked. "A lot, Bartle, a lot," the little man answered. "I would say # of psychotics!" He giggled again. A smile sliced through Bartle's sallow cheeks. "My relations with them would be the best! Keep that Scotch handy, Pettigill. I'll be right over." #" #I After rescue, revenge was uppermost in Chet Barfield's mind ; the hideous, bestial Agvars had to be taught a lesson they'd never forget. His rescuers seemed to disagree, however -- until Chet learned his lesson too! xnt of a 'Tftatt By Dave Dryfoos Illustrated by Rudolph Palais I der the diffuse red sun of Hedlot, Chet Barfield listened intently. Mostly he heard the villagers, the Agvars, noisy with the disregard for sound that comes of defective hearing. But above their clamor was another note. No... Yes! There it was again -- the swish-roar-scream of a spaceship! Chet's heart lifted to the altitude of that ship. Rescue! Rescue was at hand for him, after three years as a prisoner. Thought of it momentarily overcame the passivity that years of starvation had made his habit. He even forgot himself enough to walk erect a few steps, staring skyward -- heavenward! -- within cupped hands. But the dense hardwood chain on his ankle brought him up short. When it tightened, he remembered, and slouched to all fours again, moving with the gorilla-like gait of the Agvars toward the unshaded post he was chained to. He'd been observed. Pawfulls of dirt stung his bent and whip-scarred back, and a treble chorus stung his ears and nerves. The village boys were chanting derisively. Chet had never been able to learn the language, but the tone of voice was unmistakable. He huddled against the post, knees to chin, hands clasped around his matted hair, awaiting the inevitable sticks and slops. He heard the children's voices fade as they scattered throughout the village of haphazard lean-tos in search of especially sickening things to throw. For a few minutes, then, he'd have a breather. But not for long -- they wouldn't forget... No. But the fellows hadn't forgotten him, either. He could stand this for a day or two more. A week or a month, even. It didn't matter. This would end -- soon. His turn would come! He'd make these devils suffer as he had suffered. He swore it! He was glad he'd stayed alive for this. It had been a fight to live, a struggle he'd often thought futile while he made it. Learning to eat whatever he could get, training himself to breathe the local atmosphere in the special rhythm its composition required, accepting degradations too cruel for a captive animal, avoiding the resistance that would have brought merciful murder... All that, yet it felt strange, now, to be so glad he was alive. He heard the children returning, and crouched lower. A few clots of garbage spattered against the post -- teasers, to make him angry, so he'd turn to howl his rage, and offer his face as a target. Good memories, these little beasts had. It was almost a year since he'd last done that... Well, he had a memory, too. And while they pelted him -- from fairly close range, now, with sharp rocks among the wads of filth -- he could take refuge in the memory of those last glorious days on Earth. R emembrance was itself a change brought by the roaring ship; usually he moped in a vegetative daze. But now he recalled how he'd looked in the tight white uniform : six feet of well-fed muscle accentuated by the garment's lines, the blue stars on each lapel just matching his eyes, the peak of his cap harmonizing with the straight line of his jaw. He  remembered how he'd sounded, speaking words of nonchalant and unfelt modesty in the soft Southern voice the girls had liked so well. He could have had his pick of girls. He'd been a picked man himself. Highly selected -- that was the phrase. He was highly selected, Chet reminded himself, shrinking as the children came closer and their missiles began to really hurt. He'd been highly selected since his eighteenth year. At # he'd had seven years of pre-flight training -- seven years of indoctrination specifically designed to give him selfconfidence enough to face the void itself without flinching. Now he flinched from children... Still, the schooling had worked, he acknowledged -- so well that when their ship crashed into this planet Hedlot's salty sea, his first reaction had been indignation at the elements. His second thought had been for his comrades. But they went down with the ship; he alone had been hurled clear. Learning that, he'd swum resolutely in the direction he knew the shore to be, and made it. Exhausted, all right -- shocked, naked, half-dead really. But quite ready to point out his rank and identity to the first passer-by. Lucky for him, Chet mused, that he'd had no chance to express his callow arrogance. Shock saved his Kfe -- sank him into a stupor, so when the Agvars found him, he was helpless. He knew it was only because it had seemed perfectly safe that they'd tied him up and brought him to the village, instead By the time he'd recovered somewhat from the initial shock and exhaustion, they were used to him, convinced he was harmless if well chained-up. And they played it safe by giving him nothing but a little water -- no clothing, no shelter, no food... They let him live, amused by the thirst that drove him to lap up each morning's drenching dew, fascinated by his ravenous appetite for the garbage they flung at him. The Agvars -- furry, savage halfmen, with something of the dog and something of the ape and little of the man about them -- the Agvars let him live, Chet realized, for exactly one reason: he made them feel superior. They'd learn now! Even though the children had stopped shrieking and gone away, disgusted at his passivity, no villager's insensitive ears could yet hear the ship. In their boastfulness, the Agvars had invited other tribes to come and look at him and poke at him and laugh at him. His presence was known over the whole planet. He'd be found, no matter where on Hedlot the spaceship landed. And then would come the showdown! lier than he expected, speeded because the ship landed close by. Chet told himself he should have counted on that kind of accuracy, but he'd underestimated his fellow pilots. He had himself signalled Earthside, just before the crash, that his ship was about to land. He'd given his position -- described sea and shoreline. They'd find him, if he stayed chained to the post. But he didn't. Taken unaware by the Agvars who loosed him, Chet was docile, happy even -- certain they wouldn't hurt him now, but would try to minimize their former cruelty as they turned him over to the spacemen. When they put new chains on him, around neck and waist, he thought it was only to make sure he didn't run away before they could deliver him ostentatiously to the ship. A dozen adult males had gathered in the clearing, but that was hardly an unusual event. Even when they all started out, on a winding trail that didn't head in the direction of the ship's recent landing-sounds, Chet was convinced they were just circling some geographic obstacle. He was interested in the forest of #-foot mosses and #-foot evergreen hardwoods pressing densely on each side of the trail. Unconscious when they'd carried him from the beach, he'd never been out of the village since, had never inspected these woods. And he thought his mates from Earth would want to know about them. Chet could easily have outdistanced the clumsy Agvars if not forced to imitate their crouching walk. But he knew from experience that to show off his erect stance and #-inch height-advantage would make them find some unpleasant way to put him in his place. They'd shown him that quite often. He'd show them -- but later, not just yet. And after showing them, he'd put these Agvars behind him -- them, their filthy planet, and their scorching sun. It had often tortured him, that gauzy, amorphous solar blaze, but never more than now. For the sun of Hedlot, when he glanced at it vengefully, proved from its position that he was not being taken to the ship, but away from it. D isappointment didn't rouse Chet to a fighting pitch -- it caused him to become crafty. Slyness and deceit, the indirect weapons of the powerless, were not attributes schooled into a student space-pilot. But he'd learned them tied naked to a sunbaked post. That, too, is an effective school. He hung back, faking fatigue. Malingering brought him pokes and jerks, made the Agvars choke him and beat him and harangue him in their sullen mutter of clicks and growls and glottal catches. But some sense of urgency drove them to give up their fruitless sadism after a while, and drag him through the trail's blue mud by brute strength, two on the neck-chain, two hauling at his waist. He let them. Not that he was inured to pain -- he just was stubborn. He wondered, once when they all stopped at a spring for a drink and some rest, whether their haranguing showed the Agvars were sorry they hadn't taught him their language. Probably not, he decided; probably they didn't want to think he could have learned it. He'd tried, in the absence of lessons, by repeating what he heard around him. He'd learned a few words, of course. And for a while, a couple of villagers had seemed to enjoy and encourage his parrotlike attempts to recite whole sentences they voiced for him. But after a few beatings, Chet gathered that he'd only been mouthing obscenities. And that experience, plus inertia, had made him give up the attempt. Just as well, he now decided. If they'd known of his technical skills, if they'd let him raise their standards, the Agvars might be carrying bows and arrows, instead of mere slings and sticks. Their hard luck! What they didn't know, they'd never learn from him! The mere presence of a spaceship on the same planet gave him a buoyant feeling of contempt. But though contempt helped him endure that journey through the tall mosses and taller trees, it couldn't ward off exhaustion. When the party stopped at the foot of a sheer rock spire that rose four or five hundred feet above the tallest growth, he collapsed and slept. dawn twilight and another group of Agvars took over. These -- there were only three -- looked older than the familiar villagers. And they'd smeared their faces with bands of red and yellow mud. He wondered... He stopped wondering when they passed a pile of bones at the base of the spire. Among the grisly relics were skulls -- brow-ridged, pointed, unmistakably Agvar. Sacrifices! He was to be killed, then, to propitate his own rescuers. His three guides -- or guards -- must be witch-doctors! He let them drag him along while he thought about it. They'd give him no breakfast, not even water. If they'd eaten themselves, it was while he still slept. The scraps, if any, hadn't been flung in his face, and there'd been no smooth post to lick the dew from. Hunger and thirst were nothing new, but neither was the resulting lethargy. Realizing his danger, Chet could only hang back. Today though that was an old stall; the witch-doctors seemed to expect it. They broke branches from the trees and beat him till he bled. And when the climb up the rocks began, they put one of their number behind him to push, set the other two in front to pull, and tried by main strength to haul him up the five hundred foot rock-face. Hazily, not hastily, Chet tried to think of a way out. His starved brain could come up with nothing. That, he finally decided, was only natural; it was not thinking that was needed, but action. Still, he wasn't precipitate. Caution reinforced his habitual lassitude while trying to dispell it. Half a dozen times he tensed for combat, only to relax hopelessly. But finally he found a place -- and the will -- to make a stand. He passed up a wide shelf, and let them tug him along a narrow ledge without much objection. He chose a near-vertical pitch about a hundred feet from the bottom -- a mere crack that slanted upward to the right, offering the shallowest of hand-and foot-holds. He could only hope that he wasn't in sight from the trail -- or else that the villagers had left. He couldn't see through the treetops to make sure. But he hadn't the strength to worry. He froze to the rock, pulling as if in fright. The two witch-doctors in single file above him jerked on the chains they held. But they needed a hand apiece to hold on with, and couldn't lift him. The one below, standing on a six-inch ledge, tried to push. When that didn't work, he broke off a chunk of rock and beat Chet's left foot with it. Spurred by the sudden pain, Chet kicked the witch-doctor in the face. The Agvar fell, screaming -- until he crashed through the treetops and was still. ing superiority, it seemed as if that outcry would be heard on Earth itself. Certainly he expected it to alarm the countryside. Still, unless the swift footthrust had been seen, no one would be sure the witch-doctor's fall was not an accident... Chet had tasted victory for the first time in three years! He'd had a little revenge, and he wanted more. He could take the other two witch-doctors with him to death! He put all his weight on the chains they held. But they chose not to die -- let go, instead, to save themselves. The chain-ends rattled past, dislodging a small avalanche of dust and gravel and bruising stones -- dislodging him when the full weights jerked at neck and waist. Prepared, he didn't let himself be pulled away from the cliffs face. He slid down it to the ledge from which the Agvar below him had fallen. There he teetered a moment, balancing precariously on toes scraped raw in his slide. Clawing fingers found a crack to the right, a knob to the left -- safety! He clung there breathless. No time for resting! Rattling stones warned of pursuit. He looked quickly around, found a route, and after a short traverse let himself slide to a long talus-slope. Down it he ran barefoot through sharp debris into concealing mosses. The silence alarmed him. But it freed him from the need for craft; he didn't know what to avoid nor where it might be lurking, so he set out for the spaceship by what he hoped was the shortest way. In the village, he'd located the landing-place by sound, fixed it by sun. The sun would guide him now. Not accurately, but well enough. The ship would have landed in a clearing. Standing on its tail, it should loom high over the woods. And its men would scatter -- he ought to run into one. Run he did, trotting under thirty pounds of hardwood chain on reserves of strength dredged from a deep pit of desperation, through a forest overgrown with menace, full of life he could always sense but seldom see -- of noises whose origin he couldn't guess. The Agvars, for all their inferior hearing, could at least interpret what they heard. Chet couldn't. Every whispered cry, wild grunt and muttered growl was completely unfamiliar. He didn't know which sound signalled danger. He feared them all. But more than sounds he feared the silence that chinked the logs of time between each nerve-wracking noise. Often he had to stop and rest, and silence threatened him then like the ominous quiet of bated breath. When he'd force himself to go on, each tree seemed like a porchful of malicious old women, pretending to disregard him as he passed, certain to make trouble when he'd gone. The buzz of small life-forms was a deprecatory murmur, ready at any second to burst into condemnation and terror... What was that sound? And that? Noises that seemed out of place in their familiarity pinned him to the forest floor. It was only the village. Satisfied, he worked up courage to skirt the place and walk on toward the ship. But he was near collapse. When he heard human voices he could only yell incoherently once or twice, sob, and pass out. Chet was aware of the ship's sickbay, of the enlisted attendants, the hovering doctor, the silent commander. Later he realized he'd been kept under opiates so his body could recover while his mind rested. At the time, he felt only the dimness. It wore off abruptly. He was in a civilized cot, stretching luxuriously, aware of warmth and comfort and a cheerful voice that seemed familiar. He opened his eyes. A fat young corpsman had been watching. "How do you feel, sir?" the boy said. "Ready for coffee?" "Sure," Chet answered. And grinned lazily as he sat up to sip the proffered cup. "You've taken good care of me." "Used to be a barber in civilian life," the boy said smugly. And Chet found with an exploratory hand that he'd been shaven and shorn, bathed, bandaged where necessary -- even, he saw, clad in a pair of fancy red broadcloth pajamas. "You've got me cleaned up, all right," he said. "Whose p.j.'s have I got on?" "Dr. Pine's, sir. You'll see him in a couple of minutes -- he and the Old Man been waiting to question you. There's a robe and slippers, if you want me to help you get up..." "I'm not helpless," Chet said, boasting in his turn. He proved it by climbing -- gingerly -- out of the cot. The boy helped him into the robe, found the slippers, pushed the small room's one chair an inch closer to the open porthole, and left, closing the door behind him. the two men who soon entered the room -- they'd been there before. But this was his first fully conscious look at them. Commander Seymour, the C.O., looked surprisingly young for his job. He was young, Chet decided -- not over thirty-five -- and his short slight figure made him seem younger still. He had few words. "You're looking fine, Barfield," he said, and sat on the edge of the cot, thin face impassive, gray eyes alert. Dr. Pine -- tall, balding, affable -- was associated in Chet's mind with hypodermic needles, bitter medicines, restrictions. Today, the doctor gave him a firm and friendlyhandshake, but yesterday, Chet felt, that same hand had inflicted pain. "Glad to see you looking so well," the doctor said, taking a stance against the wall by the porthole. He sounded sincere enough, but Chet, resuming his chair, wondered how much of the gladness was based on the doctor's pride in professional handiwork. There was an awkward pause. Chet remembered to murmur polite replies to the men who were so obviously sizing him up. Then he asked, "When do you think I'll be ready for duty?" His visitors exchanged a glance. "Later," Commander Seymour said. "Take it easy while you can, Barfield." He smiled unconvincingly at what must have been meant as a joke. Talk again lapsed, and Chet became uncomfortable. "The corpsman said you wanted to ask me some things," he said. And added, "You've already questioned me, haven't you?" "Only a little," Dr. Pine said, flexing his long fingers and looking down at them. "We -- ah -- we had to find out about your shipmates. Commander Seymour wanted to look for them, naturally..." Naturally... "Are we going to leave here now, sir?" Chet asked the commander. "Not yet," he said. "Dr. Pine has a job to do." "What's that, Doctor?" "I'm going to study your Agvar friends, Mr. Barfield. Want to help?" "Sure," Chet said. "There's nothing I'd rather do than bring you a few corpses to dissect." "That -- ah -- that isn't the idea," Dr. Pine said, bending his fingers and rocking from toes to heels. "I -- ah -- I want to do a little anthropology-study them in the life... "Why?" Chet demanded. "I can tell you all about them. I can tell you what they did to me, too! They don't deserve to live! And this planet won't be safe for spacemen till they're dead. Why waste time studying them? It isn't as if you were a professional anthropologist, sir -- didn't you give me medical care?" "Yes... But I do anthopology, too. Medical help -- ah -- gains the confidence of the people..." "You mean -- ?" Chet was at first incredulous, then outraged. "You mean you're not going to punish them?" "That's right," Dr. Pine said, smiling. "That's wrong!" Chet contradicted. Cheeks burning, he turned to Commander Seymour. "How about you, sir? Do you want your men chained to a post if they get captured? Do you want me to dismiss three years of torture as a mistake, or something? Do you want -- " "Here, here!" Commander Seymour said. He didn't raise his voice. But as he rose from the cot, Chet rose with him, and found himself at attention. They eyed each other. "Relax," Dr. Pine suggested. "Please sit down -- both of you." Commander Seymour obeyed his subordinate. But Chet, still standing, still angry, turned hotly on the doctor. "I can't just sit and let you talk about rewarding the Agvars for torturing me!" he cried. "We don't have to appease them -- they can't fight. You don't have to be afraid -- " "That'll do, Barfield!" Commander Seymour was on his feet again, and his tone was sharp. It quieted Chet instantly. In silence he watched Commander Seymour motion Dr. Pine to follow him out the door. Someone locked it after them. A lternately tossing on the cot and pacing the floor, Chet seethed for hours. His first interview with the new C.O., and two bawlings-out in five minutes! Because of Pine -- Pine, who kept him confined in this room, seeing no one but the attendants, having his meals alone... When a day passed, and then two, and he felt his strength returning, Chet was sure that Dr. Pine kept him out of the wardroom and away from the other officers only as punishment. Three years a prisoner -- and a prisoner still! By the time Commander Seymour came to see him again, Chet had spent hours plotting revenge. "Barfield," the commander said, "Dr. Pine is going -- alone -- to the village you escaped from. He'll pretend he's you, or someone like you -- whichever he can get away with. So here's your chance for a little fresh air -- you can guide us to the village." "Does that mean I go on active duty, sir?" "Not quite. Dr. Pine hasn't released you from sickbay." Pine again! Pine found him good enough to imitate, it seemed, but not good enough to put on duty. Suddenly Chet saw the possibilities. So Pine was going to impersonate him? Then Pine would be taken for an escaped sacrifice, a prisoner who'd killed a witchdoctor! Tell him? Huh. Let him find out the hard way! Then even he, yellow as he was, would want revenge on the Agvars. If he survived their welcome... "I'll be glad to go, sir," Chet said. not a dress uniform. But fatigues and shoes -- even tight ones -- were clothing, at least. And clothing would change his appearance. The Agvars had never seen him dressed, nor, since his first days, with a haircut and shave. Whether Pine's impersonation worked or not, Chet saw no danger for himself in approaching the village. But he wondered how it was to be managed. He was told the plan when Commander Seymour and Dr. Pine met him outside by the ship's tail. The commander, who was armed, and the doctor, already naked except for a pair of slippers and a sunlamp tan, would go with him by the shortest route direct to the village. But only Dr. Pine would enter it. Commander Seymour explained Chet's part -- and his own. "Barfield," he said, "I want you to find and point out some kind of game animal they use for food. I count under the Agvars' observation. That should show off our weaponsuperiority -- and pave the way for a feast." "No medical stuff?" Chet asked sarcastically. "I thought Dr. Pine was supposed to cure all their ills, not give them indigestion." "He has to get their confidence before he can treat them," Commander Seymour explained seriously. "And on a strange planet like this, he's taking quite a chance to try treatment at any time: if it fails, they're apt to accuse him of murder!" Chet said nothing. But he felt as if he'd drawn a wild card in a poker game. Even before that, Dr. Pine had lagged because his slippers kept falling off, and now he brought up the rear. Chet, in the lead, took a last long look at the ship before the trees and mosses cut off his view. He went on slowed by vague reluctance. He didn't like this forest. The trees dwarfed and oppressed him. Old fears began to stir and gnaw, but at new places. Perhaps the two men he guided would stand together against him. If so, revenge on one would cut him off from both as sharply as the forest cut him off from the ship... Well, it was worth it! They hadn't put him on duty, hadn't accepted him as one of themselves... He couldn't be cut off much more than he was already! And Seymour might listen to reason. After all, he was a practical man, a leader. And Pine was yellow! "What's Pine after, sir?" Chet asked over his shoulder. "Why take these risks you've mentioned?" "Well, partly for safety: if we kill any Agvars, we're likely to have to kill them all, or have the survivors to contend with indefinitely. That might cost us some casualties... And of course there's the research angle, but that's out of my line." "What's the matter with punishment, sir -- discipline? You use discipline on your crew -- why not on their enemies?" "Because the men understand the rules and the penalties. The Agvars don't." "Kill them, sir! That they'll understand!" "No!" Commander Seymour spoke sharply. "If they don't fight back, that's cold-blooded slaughter. If they do, it's war. I don't hold with butchery, Barfield, and I certainly won't risk casualties just to give you a cheap feeling of satisfaction!" He couldn't escape. Commander Seymour, looking from over Chet's shoulder like a walking sneer, stuck close. But he gave the impression of following a man who smelled bad. Was he? Chet wondered. Wondering, he unconsciously hung his head, slowed -- stopped. Dr. Pine caught up. He and Commander Seymour, faintly breathless from the trying need to regulate their respiration consciously, looked at Chet questioningly. Again they were sizing him up. Suddenly Chet wished he could go back to that first interview in the sickbay, and change all the things he'd said. "We can't go on!" he blurted. "You don't know what you're getting into, Doctor!" "Oh?" said Dr. Pine agreeably. "I know more than you think, young feller." He smiled encouragingly. "That -- that I've killed a witchdoctor? That you may be taken for a murderer?" "Sure! You -- ah -- you talked about it under drugs. We... weren't spying, Chet. We just wanted you to tell your story without reliving all the agony. It wasn't intended as -- ah -- a trap..." He massaged his fingers apologetically. "No... Chet agreed. "But-Iwas-trying-to-lead-yoa-into-one!" couldn't be sure. He listened for his own voice. The woods were quiet. His breathing seemed strangely loud. He held it -- and heard the Agvars moving in the woods. Rustling, scraping, crackling -- grunting their guttural dialog. Crashing! Threatening them! "Let's go back!" he urged, trying to sound casual. But his trail was blocked. "Stick around," Dr. Pine suggested easily. "You -- ah -- you haven't said anything we didn't know. We're going right ahead." "But why? Once more Chet was hotly incredulous. "To risk your life for a few stray facts? Become a casualty while trying to avoid casualties? It doesn't make sense!" Dr. Pine stared at his own hands as if to hide his shyness in them. "As to the fact-seeking," he said slowly, "well... it's a matter of opinion. I've lost a few classmates... Risks in research are commonplace -- and accepted as worthwhile by most people... "And -- ah -- peace... You once called it appeasement, but it isn't, always. Well, look. If we fought those Agvars, somebody'd have to take a patrol into their village and capture prisoners for our Intelligence, right?" Chet nodded dumbly. "Well, in a way, I -- ah -- am the peaceful equivalent of that patrol. The -- ah -- risk I run is less than if we had a war and a patrol skirmish as part of it, though. And why in the world not take for peace a risk we'd routinely accept in war?" Why not? But why not minimize it, just the same. The Agvars, invisible but noisy, were all around them, now. At any moment the woods might rain spears. "It would be safer with two of us," Chet said musingly. "Your knowledge of anthropology and medicine -- mine of the people -- " "Barfield, you're still on the sicklist," Commander Seymour pointed out. He watched Chet's face for a long moment before adding, "Still -- if you're over your sick-minced need for revenge -- it's possible Dr. Pine may find you fit. It's up to him." Chet was afraid to ask directly. He pleaded with his eyes. Dr. Pine grinned broadly at the both. "He's ready for duty," sir," he said. Commander Seymour stepped back and scowled. "All right, Mr. Barfield," he barked, "I'll give you just three minutes to change to the uniform of the day!" Chet's jaw dropped. His vision, also downcast, noted the fatigues he wore, the muddy shoes. Then he looked up, saw the twinkle in his C.O.'s eyes, and understood. In exactly three minutes he made the required change. He would enter the village as he'd left it -- in the undress uniform of a Man... obsolete!... You needn't lose sleep over it, but readabout it The Electron Interferometer still controversy about whether electrons consisted of particles or waves. Then two scientists named G. J. Davisson and L. H. Germer demonstrated that they have the nature of waves. They accomplished this by making electrons produce a diffraction pattern, one of the two methods by which light had been shown to consist of waves in earlier experiments. In the case of light, this is done by passing a beam through a very narrowly spaced grating so that its waves alternately reinforce and cancel one another, forming a diffraction pattern of light and dark bands. Davisson and Germer used a crystal for their grating in the electron experiment, with similar results. The second test originally devised for light used an interferometer, an instrument which splits a beam of light in two and forces one half to travel a longer route than the other. When the parts are reunited their waves are out of phase and the result is a pattern of interference fringes. It was difficult to apply this test to electrons, however, since their wavelength is only about one #th that of light. Nevertheless, the task has now been accomplished, with a highly refined version of the interferometer, by a group of physicists at the National Bureau of Standards. The heart of the electron interferometer is a series of three copper crystals only about four #-millionths of an inch thick. A beam of electrons passed through these is split and then recombined. On emerging from the third crystal, it is made up of a pair of rays which have been differently diffracted. The difference in the length of the paths the rays must travel can be varied by moving the first crystal back and forth or by exposing the electrons, to electric or magnetic fields within the instrument. The electron interferometer is more than just a testing device for an already established theory, however. Its designers hope to improve on it so that it can be used as a measuring rod for various electric, magnetic and electronic purposes. Sugar and Spice ter tastes than any others. Next strongest taste is sour, followed by salt, with sweet bringing up the rear. This has been discovered by food technologists at the University of California. They found that humans can detect sugar in the amount of one tablespoonful in two gallons of water and one tablespoon of salt in ten gallons of water. Hydrochloric acid (the sour taste) can be spotted even when one tablespoonful is mixed with # gallons of water, while the presence of a tablespoon of quinine in # gallons of water is still noticeable. The scientists plan to continue these tests with various types of food. No More Teeth? won't be a sound human tooth in the world by # A. D. The only hope that we'll keep our choppers lies in finding out what causes tooth decay and discovering means of preventing it. So says Prof. Reidar F. Sognnaes of the Harvard School of Dental Science, who urges the speeding up of research along these lines. Many of our old theories about teeth have had to be changed recently as new evidence has come to light. Tooth enamel was long thought to be dead tissue, for instance. Now it is known that this substance contains several different kinds of living matter. Dr. Sognnaes also recommends frequent brushing of the teeth, even though it is impossible to keep them perfectly clean -- a person always has some micro-organisms and food debris in his mouth. "The most that can be said," he adds unhappily, "is that if we did not clean our teeth they would be worse than they are." How long has it been since you've seen your dentist? A-Bomb Precaution strikes -- if it does -- military personnel and perhaps civilians may be equipped with small, easily worn devices that will accurately record the amount of radiation to which an atomic bomb casualty has been subjected. This potential life-saver is known as the dosimeter; it was designed by naval scientists and is being produced by the Coming Glass Works. The dosimeter contains a piece of supersensitive silver-activated phosphate glass. Worn as a locket, the device permanently records the radiation received; the amount can be measured immediately or weeks after the exposure by use of a special reading instrument. When illuminated by ultra-violet light in this instrument, the phosphate glass emits fluorescent orange light in amounts proportional to the exposure the glass has taken in. Thus the proper medical treatment can be prescribed. The dosimeter is noteworthy for the range of radiation it can measure: from doses as small as # Roentgens, which is well, below the danger limit, up to several thousand Roentgens. How Old Are Your Arteries? of the radioactive tracer principle of medicine is now in use to warn patients of possible arteriosclerosis, heart attacks and apoplectic strokes. The test involves the use of a small amount of radioactive sodium injected into a vein in the arm. A Geiger counter is then placed over the subject's chest to measure the radioactivity as the substance passes through the bloodstream in that area. The time is checked when the level of radioactivity drops to a specific point, and this shows the rate of blood flow through strategic blood vessels. The critical level is reached in healthy #-year old men in # seconds. The time is doubled at # years and tripled at #. Patients suffering from arteriosclerosis will show the results normally expected of an older person. The test, which takes only about # minutes in all, was devised by Dr. Enrique Strajman, a Brazilian scientist working at the Donner Laboratory of the University of California. Up-To-Date Prospecting supersensitive successors to Geiger counters -- are being used by government and private industry to prospect for uranium by air. Although the method can't pinpoint the locations of uranium deposits exactly, both the Atomic Energy Commission and the Interior Department are having considerable success in finding clues to potential deposits this way. The Interior Department uses instrument-equipped DC-#'s, while altitudes. Reactions of the detectors in each case are marked on paper tape, synchronized with #-mm cameras that simultaneously map the areas being explored. The aerial maps are posted as they are completed, with the sites of potential deposits clearly marked. Ground prospectors must take over from there, since the signs of radioactive deposits on the maps don't distinguish between those that are workable and those that are thin and valueless. Hundreds of independent prospectors are using the maps, which have been concentrated so far on the Colorado plateau and parts of South Dakota, New Mexico and Western Pennsylvania, in the hope of striking it rich through the high prices and bonuses Number, Please? your telephone and dial a number anywhere on the continent is being hastened by the Bell Telephone System. A big step in the plan was taken recently in Pittsburgh where devices known as card translators were placed in regular service. Card translators determine where dialed calls should go and route them there as directly and speedily as possible. If one path is busy, the machines will select the next best, making decisions in split seconds. The card translator uses boxes containing # metal routing cards apiece -- each card about five by # # inches. The cards have identifying tabs so that one will drop from the stack for any particular code that is dialed. Beams of light then pass through openings in or tabs on the card, falling on phototransistors which transmit the necessary signals to the rest of the equipment. So you'll soon be able to call Aunt Minnie, who lives all the way across the country, as easily as the neighbors across the street! elevated express highway, these stations will direct traffic through the electronic beams. They have complete control over oil troffic ot all times, speeding up or slowing down movement in individual lanes according to conditions When driver reaches destination he switches to manual control and leaves beam (Drawings by Ed Valigursky)  count, people will be pushed onto desert land or into the wildernesses. Here is an independent, city-containing building housing # people, along with all shopping centers, gardens, recreation and entertainment facilities required by a city of that size. Design of the structure is such that the building itself provides needed shade over the entire desert area which it occupies'. (Now see inside back cover.) All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg: A Space Nation Composed of Independent City Planets a s  s e   (Fact Article ) by R. S. Richardson #   By Ed Valigursky  IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #, Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale March # th like somebody's gotta put in a good word for Mankind because, judging from some of the manuscripts coming into this office, the poor ole guy is doomed irrevocably and finally to fire and brimstone. Maybe certain themes in science fiction run in cycles, and this is one of those cycles, but a flock of writers are certainly booking Mankind as the underdog -- with a capital U and no bets taken. The particular kind of plot we are allergic to portrays Mankind so broken down, degraded and depraved that the only cure is violent extermination. Like, if you come home and find the little wife pretty sick with a bad stomach ache or something -- well, you just shove her into the furnace and that cures her stomach ache. Or, if you have a comparatively new house and you discover that the plumbing leaks. In a case like this you call the Army (the Navy if you live near the seashore) and have them blow it to smithereens with one of their new cannons, and the plumbing leak is fixed forever. Or, in a more science fiction sense something like this: A super-super intelligent being from Venus or Mars or somewhere lands on Earth and cases the joint. After spending a week on terra he decides -- because a certain girl won't let him neck with her, or because a couple of ruffians engage in a beastly fistfight, or because the guy at the soda counter at a corner drugstore insists on getting paid for a chocolate sundae -- that the world is no dam good and oughta be destroyed. So the author gives this Martian or Venusian or something an Atom bomb with which he blows up Mankind and the world and that's the end of the story. Or -- some wise old bird, way off in space, gets a look at Earth through a telescope and decides he ain't happy with what he sees, so what does he do? You guessed it. He pushes a button and -- zzzzzzzzz! -- Mankind from pole to pole is cremated. That's just a couple of examples how Mankind gets its cure from space. Then, there are the authors who figure that the Earth should take care of its own. In this manner we are devoured by animals, or we are eaten up by swarms of insects or we are nibbled happily to extinction by fish. The object here is that when every human being is digested the animals or the fish or the birds or bees would take over and be better rulers of Earth than Mankind has ever been or can ever hope to be. Now, let's see. Suppose, for instance, that the animal kingdom took over. Would all be Utopia, peace and quiet and happy hunting? In the pig's eye! The carnivorous ones would snarl and fight and eat each other. The vegetarians (like rabbits) would become so numerous so fast that they'd be fighting over the vegetables. Suppose the birds took over. What do you think would happen to little sparrows and robins with Mr. Hawk and Mr. Eagle running Congress. Or, how about the little bluefish or guppy with Senator Shark heading the foreign affairs committee? Anyhow, you see what we mean? time and will undoubtedly be around a few more years. So it's kind of natural (don't you think?) that the old guy should be susceptible to quirks and cranks and a belly full of meanness now and then. Fundamentally, Mankind is no worse today than it was a hundred or a thousand or ten thousand years ago. From the very beginning it has been bicker and bungle, fuss and fight, maim and murder -- but somehow it has always gone forward. Business, religion, education, economics, science, etc., etc., have all been built and advanced on bloodshed and violence. Just look at your history books and see if you can find one single, solitary phase of the civilization we know today that hasn't incurred it's share of bickering and bloodshed. SO let's throw out the baggykneed theme of improving Mankind by destroying it. You can't improve anything by destroying it. Throw out the bad and there is no good. Throw out the good and there is no bad. If there is no darkness you got no light. If there is no light you got no darkness. Everything in this world is relative; without one thing you can't have another. This old universe is a pot of chemistry and its gotta keep boiling with its conflicting elements or there won't be a pot. Of course, I'm an optimistic sort of guy myself, and I think most folks are. If they weren't, we'd still be back in the dark ages -- or we vouldn't be around at all. Nor would the animals. They gotta be optimistic too, or they would have no scrappin', lovin' or eatin' either! Fortunately, the doom, doom, doom, that's been reaching this office via Uncle Sam's mail is only a very minute, microscopic particle of the science fiction being written today. In both books and magazines you will find a lot of very fine writing with excellent science fiction themes -- stories that are good, substantial, entertaining reading; stories that make you curious, that make you anticipate the future -- not scared out of your boots about it. To these writers, whether they appear in this magazine or not, IF doffs its hat. -- jlq The powers of earth had finally exterminated the last of the horrible tribes of mutant freaks spawned by atomic war. Menace to homo sapien supremacy was about ended -- but not quite. For out of the countryside came a great golden, godlike youth whose extraordinary mutant powers, combining the world's oldest and newest methods of survival, promised a new and superior type of mankind... Illustrated by Kelly Freas the salesman demanded. He addressed everybody at the lunch counter and in the shabby booths against the wall. A middle-aged fat man with a good-natured smile, rumpled gray suit, sweat-stained white shirt, a drooping bowtie, and a panama hat. "Only in the summer," the waitress answered. None of die others stirred. The teen-age boy and girl in one of the booths, eyes fixed intently on each other. Two workmen, sleeves rolled up, arms dark and hairy, eating bean soup and rolls. A lean, weathered farmer. An elderly businessman in a blue-serge suit, vest and pocket watch. A dark rat-faced cab driver drinking coffee. A tired woman who had come in to get off her feet and put down her bundles. The salesman got out a package of cigarettes. He glanced curiously around the dingy cafe, lit up, leaned his arms on the counter, and said to the man next to him: "What's the name of this town?" The man grunted. "Walnut Creek." The salesman sipped at his coke for awhile, his cigarette held loosely between his plump white fingers. Presently he reached in his coat and brought out a leather wallet. For a long time he leafed thoughtfully through cards and papers, bits of notes, ticket stubs, endless odds and ends, soiled fragments -- and finally a photograph. He grinned at the photograph, and then began to chuckle, a low moist rasp. "Look at this," he said to the man beside him. The man went on reading his newspaper. "Hey, look at this." The salesman nudged him with his elbow and pushed the photograph at him. "How's that strike you?" Annoyed, the man glanced briefly at the photograph. It showed a nude woman, from the waist up. Perhaps thirty-five years old. Face turned away. Body white and flabby. With eight breasts. "Ever seen anything like that?" the salesman chuckled, his little red eyes dancing. His face broke into lewd smiles and again he nudged the man. "I've seen that before." Disgusted, the man resumed reading his newspaper. The salesman noticed the lean old farmer was looking at the picture. He passed it genially over to him. "How's that strike you, pop? Pretty good stuff, eh?" . The farmer examined the picture solemnly. He turned it over, studied the creased back, took a second look at the front, then tossed it to the salesman. It slid from the counter, turned over a couple of times, and fell to the floor face up. The salesman picked it up and brushed it off. Carefully, almost tenderly, he restored it to his wallet. The waitress' eyes flickered as she caught a glimpse of it. "Damn nice," the salesman observed, with a wink. "Wouldn't you say so?" The waitress shrugged indifferently. "I don't know. I saw a lot of them around Denver. A whole colony." "That's where this was taken. "Any still alive?" the farmer asked. The salesman laughed harshly. "You kidding?" He made a short, sharp swipe with his hand. "Not any more." the high school kids in the booth had stopped holding hands and were sitting up straight eyes wide with fascination. "Saw a funny kind down near San Diego," the farmer said. "Last year, some time. Had wings like a hat. Skin, not feathers. Skin and bone wings." The rat-eyed taxi driver chimed in. "That's nothing. There was a two-headed one in Detroit. I saw it on exhibit." "Was it alive?" the waitress asked. "No. They'd already euthed it." "In sociology," the high school boy spoke up, "we saw tapes of a whole lot of them. The winged kind from down south, the big-headed one they found in Germany, an awful-looking one with sort of cones, like an insect. And -- " "The worst of all," the elderly businessman stated, "are those English ones. That hid out in the coal mines. The ones they didn't find until last year." He shook his head. "Forty years, down there in the mines, breeding and developing. Almost a hundred of them. Survivors from a group that went underground during the War." "They just found a new kind in Sweden," the waitress said. "I was reading about it. Controls minds at a distance, they said. Only a couplenty fast." "That's a variation of the New Zealand type," one of the workmen said. "It reads minds." "Reading and controlling are two different things," the businessman said. "When I hear something like that I'm plenty glad there's the "There was a type they found right after the War," the farmer said. "In Siberia. Had the ability to control objects. Psychokinetic right away. Nobody remembers that any more." "I remember that," the businessman said. "I was just a kid, then. I remember because that was the first deeve I ever heard of. My father called me into the livingroom and told me and my brothers and sisters. We were still rebuilding the house. That was in the days and stamped their arms." He held up his thin, gnarled wrist. "I was stamped there, sixty years ago." "Now they just have the birth inspection," the waitress said. She shivered. "There was one in San Francisco this month. First in over a year. They thought it was over, around here." "It's been dwindling," the taxi driver said. "Frisco wasn't too bad hit. Not like some. Not like Detroit." "They still get ten or fifteen a year in Detroit," the high school boy said. "All around there. Lots of pools still left. People go into them, in spite of the robot signs." "What kind was this one?" the salesman asked. "The one they found in San Francisco." The waitress gestured. "Common type. The kind with no toes. Bentover. Big eyes." "The nocturnal type," the salesman said. "The mother had hid it. They say it was three years old. She got Old friend of the family." The salesman had finished his coke. He sat playing idly with his cigarette, listening to the hum of talk he had set into motion. The high school boy was leaning excitedly toward the girl across from him, impressing her with his fund of knowledge. The lean farmer and the businessman were huddled together, remembering the old days, the last years of the War, before the first Ten-Year Reconstruction Plan. The taxi driver and the two workmen were swapping yams about their own experiences. The salesman caught the waitress' attention. "I guess," he said thoughtfully, "that one in Frisco caused quite a stir. Something like that happening so close." "Yeah," the waitress murmured. "This side of the Bay wasn't really hit," the salesman continued. "You never get any of them over here." "No." The waitress moved abruptly. "None in this area. Ever." She scooped up dirty dishes from the counter and headed toward the back. "Never?" the salesman asked, surprised. "You've never had any deeves on this side of the Bay?" "No. None." She disappeared into the back, where the fry cook stood by his burners, white apron and tattooed wrists. Her voice was a little too loud, a little too harsh and strained. It made the farmer pause suddenly and glance up. Silence dropped like a curtain. All sound cut off instantly. They were all gazing down at their food, suddenly tense and ominous. "None around here," the taxi driver said, loudly and clearly, to no one in particular. "None ever." "Sure," the salesman agreed genially. "I was only -- " "Make sure you get that straight," one of the workmen said. The salesman blinked. "Sure, buddy. Sure." He fumbled nervously in his pocket. A quarter and a dime jangled to the floor and he hurriedly scooped them up. "No offense." For a moment there was silence. Then the high school boy spoke up, aware for the first time that nobody was saying anything. "I heard something," he began eagerly, voice full importance. "Somebody said they saw something up by the Johnson farm that looked like it was one of those -- " "Shut up," the businessman said, without turning his head. sagged in his seat. His voice wavered and broke off. He peered hastily down at his hands and swallowed unhappily. The salesman paid the waitress for his coke. "What's the quickest road to Frisco?" he began. But the waitress had already turned her back. The people at the counter were immersed in their food. None of them looked up. They ate in frozen silence. Hostile, unfriendly faces, intent on their food. The salesman picked up his bulging briefcase, pushed open the screen door, and stepped out into the blazing sunlight. He moved toward his battered # Buick, parked a few meters up. A blueshirted traffic cop was standing in the shade of an awning, talking languidly to a young woman in a yellow silk dress that clung moistly to her slim body. The salesman paused a moment before he got into his car. He waved his hand and hailed the policeman. "Say, you know this town pretty good?" The policeman eyed the salesman's rumpled gray suit, bowtie, his sweat-stained shirt. The out-ofstate license. "What do you want?" "I'm looking for the Johnson farm," the salesman said. "Here to see him about some litigation." He moved toward the policeman, a small white card between his fingers. "I'm his attorney -- from the New York Guild. Can you tell me how to get out there? I haven't been through here in a couple of years." Nat Johnson gazed up at the noonday sun and saw that it was good. He sat sprawled out on the bottom step of the porch, a pipe between his yellowed teeth, a lithe, wiry man in red-checkered shirt and canvas jeans, powerful hands, iron-gray hair that was still thick despite sixty-five years of active life. He was watching the children play. Jean rushed laughing in front of him, bosom heaving under her sweat shirt, black hair streaming behind her. She was sixteen, brighteyed, legs strong and straight, slim young body bent slightly forward with the weight of the two horseshoes. After her scampered Dave, fourteen, white teeth and black hair, a handsome boy, a son to be proud of. Dave caught up with his sister, passed her, and reached the far peg. He stood waiting, legs apart, hands on his hips, his two horseshoes gripped easily. Gasping, Jean hurried toward him. "Go ahead!" Dave shouted. "You shoot first. I'm waiting for you." "So you can knock them away?" "So I can knock them closer." Jean tossed down one horseshoe and gripped the other with both hands, eyes on the distant peg. Her lithe body bent, one leg slid back, her spine arched. She took careful aim, closed one eye, and then expertly tossed the shoe. With a clang the shoe struck the distant peg, circled briefly around it, then bounced off again and rolled to one side. A cloud of dust rolled up. "Not bad," Nat Johnson admitted, from his step. "Too hard, though. Take it easy." His chest swelled with pride as the girl's glistening, healthy body took aim and again threw. Two powerful, handsome children, almost ripe, on the verge of adulthood. Playing together in the hot sun. And there was Cris. Cris stood by the porch, arms folded. He wasn't playing. He was watching. He had stood there since Dave and Jean had begun playing, the same half-intent, half-remote expression on his finely-cut face. As if he were seeing past them, beyond the two of them. Beyond the field, the barn, the creek bed, the rows of cedars. "Come on, Cris!" Jean called, as she and Dave moved across the field to collect their horseshoes. "Don't you want to play?" No, Cris didn't want to play. He never played. He was off in a world of his own, a world into which none of them could come. He never joined in anything, games or chores or family activities. He was by himself always. Remote, detached, aloof. Seeing past everyone and everything -- that is, until all at once something clicked and he momentarily rephased, reentered their world briefly. and knocked his pipe against the step. He refilled it from his leather tobacco pouch, his eyes on his eldest son. Cris was now moving into life. Heading out onto the field. He walked slowly, arms folded calmly, as if he had, for the moment descended from his own world into theirs. Jean didn't see him; she had turned her back and was getting ready to pitch. "Hey," Dave said, startled. "Here's Cris." Cris reached his sister, stopped, and held out his hand. A great dignified figure, calm and impassive. Uncertainly, Jean gave him one of the horseshoes. "You want this? You want to play?" Cris said nothing. He bent slightly, a supple arc of his incredibly graceful body, then moved his arm in a blur of speed. The shoe sailed, struck the far peg, and dizzily spun around it. Ringer. The corners of Dave's mouth turned down. "What a lousy darn thing." "Cris," Jean reproved. "You don't play fair." No, Cris didn't play fair. He had watched half an hour -- then come out and thrown once. One perfect toss, one dead ringer. "He never makes a mistake," Dave complained. Cris stood, face blank. A golden statue in the mid-day sun. Golden hair, skin, a light down of gold fuzz on his bare arms and legs -- Abruptly he stiffened. Nat sat up, startled. "What is it?" he barked. Cris turned in a quick circle, magnificent body alert. "Cris!" Jean demanded. "What -- " Cris shot forward. Like a released energy beam he bounded across the field, over the fence, into the bam and out the other side. His flying figure seemed to skim over the dry grass as he descended into the barren creek-bed, between the cedars. A momentary flash of gold -- and he was gone. Vanished. There was no sound. No motion. He had utterly melted into the scenery. "What was it this time?" Jean asked wearily. She came over to her father and threw herself down in the shade. Sweat glowed on her smooth neck and upperlip; her sweat shirt was streaked and damp. "What did he see?" "He was after something," Dave stated, coming up. Nat grunted. "Maybe. There's no telling." "I guess I better tell mom not set a place for him," Jean said. "He probably won't be back." Anger and futility descended over Nat Johnson. No, he wouldn't be back. Not for dinner and probably not the next day -- or the one after that. He'd be gone God only knew how long. Or where. Or why. Off by himself, alone some place. "If I thought there was any use," Nat began, "I'd send you two after him. But there's no -- " He broke off. A car was coming up the dirt road toward the farmhouse. A dusty, battered old Buick. Behind the wheel sat a plump redfaced man in a gray suit, who waved cheerfully at them as the car sputtered to a stop and the motor died into silence... ded, as he climbed out of the car. He tipped his hat pleasantly. He was middle-aged, genial-looking, perspiring freely as he crossed the dry ground toward the porch. "Maybe you folks can help me." "What do you want?" Nat Johnson demanded hoarsely. He was frightened, He watched the creek bed out of the corner of his eye. praying silently. God, if only he stayed away. Jean was breathing quickly, sharp little gasps. She was terrified. Dave's face was expressionless, but all color had drained from it. "Who are you?" Nat demanded. "Name's Baines. George Baines." The man held out his hand but Johnson ignored it. "Maybe you've heard of me. I own the Pacifica Development Corporation. We built all those little bomb-proof houses just outside town. Those little round ones you see as you come up the main highway from Lafayette." "What do you want?" Johnson held his hands steady with an effort. He'd never heard of the man, although he'd noticed the housing tract. It couldn't be missed -- a great ant-heap of ugly pill-boxes straddling the highway. Baines looked like the kind of man who'd own them. But what did he want here? "I've bought some land up this way," Baines was explaining. He rattled a sheaf of crisp papers. "This is the deed, but I'll be damned if I can find it." He grinned good-naturedly. "I know it's around this way, someplace, this side of the State road. According to the clerk at the County Recorder's Office, a mile or so this side of that hill over there. But I'm no damn good at reading maps." "It isn't around here," Dave broke in. "There's only farms around here. Nothing for sale." "This is a farm, son," Baines said genially. "I bought it for myself and rny missus. So we could settle down." He wrinkled his pug nose. "Don't get the wrong idea -- I'm not putting up any tracts around here. This is strictly for myself. An old farm house, twenty acres, a pump and a few oak trees -- " "Let me see the deed." Johnson grabbed the sheaf of papers, and while Baines blinked in astonishment, he leafed rapidly through them. His face hardened and he handed them back. "What are you up to? This deed is for a parcel fifty miles from here." "Fifty miles!" Baines was dumbfounded. "No kidding? But the clerk told me -- " Johnson was on his feet. He towered over the fat man. He was in top-notch physical shape -- and he was plenty damn suspicious. "Clerk, hell. You get back into your car and drive out of here. I don't know what you're after, or what you're here for, but I want you off my land." In Johnson's massive fist something sparkled. A metal tube that gleamed ominously in the mid-day sunlight. Baines saw it -- and gulped. "No offense, mister." He backed nervously away. "You folks sure are touchy. Take it easy, will you?" Johnson said nothing. He gripped the lash-tube tighter and waited for the fat man to leave. But Baines lingered. "Look, buddy. I've been driving around this furnace five hours, looking for my damn place. Any objection to my using your -- facilities?" Johnson eyed him with suspicion. Gradually the suspicion turned to disgust. He shrugged. "Dave, show him where the bathroom is." "Thanks." Baines grinned thankfully. "And if it wouldn't be too much trouble, maybe a glass of water. I'd be glad to pay you for it." He chuckled knowingly. "Never let the city people get away with anything, eh?" "Christ." Johnson turned away in revulsion as the fat man lumbered after his son, into the house. "Dad," Jean whispered. As soon as Baines was inside she hurried up onto the porch, eyes wide with fear. "Dad, do you think he -- " Johnson put his arm around her. "Just hold on tight. He'll be gone, soon." The girl's dark eyes flashed with mute terror. "Every time the man from the water company, or the tax collector, some tramp, children, anybody come around, I get a terrible stab of pain -- here." She clutched at her heart, hand against her breasts. "It's been that way thirteen years. How much longer can we keep it going? How long?" emerged gratefully from the bathroom. Dave Johnson stood silently by the door, body rigid, youthful face stony. "Thanks, son," Baines sighed. "Now where can I get a glass of cold water?" He smacked his thick lips in anticipation. "After you've been driving around the sticks looking for a dump some red-hot real estate agent stuck you with -- " Dave headed into the kitchen. "Mom, this man wants a drink of water. Dad said he could have it." I )avc had turned his back. Baines caught a brief glimpse of the mother, gray-haired, small, moving toward the sink with a glass, face withered and drawn without expression. Then Baines hurried from the room, down a hall. He passed through a bedroom, pulled a door open, found himself facing a closet. He turned and raced back, through the living room, into a dining room, then another bedroom. In a brief instant he had gone through the whole house. He peered out a window. The back yard. Remains of a rusting truck. Entrance of an underground bomb shelter. Tin cans. Chickens scratching around. A dog, asleep under a shed. A couple of old auto tires. He found a door leading out. Soundlessly, he tore the door open and stepped outside. No one was in sight. There was a barn, a leaning, ancient wood structure. Cedar trees beyond, a creek of some kind. What had once been an outhouse. around the side of the house. He had perhaps thirty seconds. He had left the door of the bathroom closed; the boy would think he had gone back in there. Baines looked into the house through a window. A large closet, filled with old clothing, boxes and bundles of magazines. He turned and started back. He reached the corner of the house and started around it. Nat Johnson's gauAt shape loomed up and blocked his way. "All right, Baines. You asked for it." A pink flash blossomed. It shut out the sunlight in a single blinding burst. Baines leaped back and clawed at his coat pocket. The edge of the flash caught him and he half-fell, stunned by the force. His suit-shield sucked in the energy and discharged it, but the power rattled his teeth and for a moment he jerked like a puppet on a string. Darkness ebbed around him. He could feel the mesh of the shield glow white, as it absorbed the energy and fought to control it. His own tube came out -- and Johnson had no shield. "You're under arrest," Baines muttered grimly. "Put down your tube and your hands up. And call your family." He made a motion with the tube. "Come on, Johnson. Make it snappy." The lash-tube wavered and then slipped from Johnson's fingers. "You're still alive." Dawning horror crept across his face. "Then you must be -- " Dave and Jean appeared. "Dad!" "Come over here," Baines ordered. "Where's your mother?" Dave jerked his head numbly. "Inside." "Get her and bring her here." whispered. Baines didn't answer. He was doing something with his neck, pulling at the flabby flesh. The wiring of a contact mike glittered as he slipped it from a fold between two chins and into his pocket. From the dirt road came the sound of motors, sleek purrs that rapidly grew louder. Two teardrops of black metal came gliding up and parked beside the house. Men swarmed out, in the dark graygreen of the Government Civil Police. In the sky swarms of black dots were descending, clouds of ugly flies that darkened the sun as they spilled out men and equipment. The men drifted slowly down. "He's not here," Baines said, as the first man reached him. "He got away. Inform Wisdom back at the lab." "We've got this section blocked off." Baines turned to Nat Johnson, who stood in dazed silence, uncomprehending, his son and daughter beside him. "How did he know we were coming?" Baines demanded. "I don't know," Johnson muttered. "He just -- knew." "A telepath?" "I don't know." Baines shrugged. "We'll know, soon. A clamp is out, all around here. He can't get past, no matter what the hell he can do. Unless he can dematerialize himself." "What'll you do with him when you -- if you catch him?" Jean asked huskily. "Study him." "And then kill him?" "That depends on the lab evaluation. If you could give me more to work on, I could predict better." "We can't tell you anything. We don't know anything more." The girl's voice rose with desperation. "He doesn't talk." Baines jumped. "What?" "He doesn't talk. He never talked to us. Ever." "How old is he?" "Eighteen." "No communication." Baines was sweating. "In eighteen years there hasn't been any semantic bridge between you? Does he have any contact? Signs? Codes?" "He -- ignores us. He eats here, stays with us. Sometimes he plays when we play. Or sits with us. He's gone days on end. We've never been able to find out what he's doing -- or where. He sleeps in the barn -- by himself." "Is he really gold-colored?' ! "Yes." "Skin, as well as hair?" "Skin, eyes, hair, nails. Everything." "And he's large? Well-formed?" It was a moment before the girl answered. A strange emotion stirred her drawn features, a momentary glow. "He's incredibly beautiful. A god. A god come down to earth." Her lips twisted. "You won't find him. He can do things. Things you have no comprehension of. Powers so far beyond your limited -- " "You don't think we'll get him?" Baines frowned. "More teams are landing all the time. You've never seen an Agency clamp in operation. We've had sixty years to work out all the bugs. If he gets away it'll be the first time -- " Baines broke off abruptly. Three men were quickly approaching the porch. Two green-clad Civil Police. And a third man between them. A man who moved silently, lithely, a faintly luminous shape that towered above them. " Cris !" Jean screamed. "We got him," one of the police said. Baines fingered his lash-tube uneasily. "Where? How?" "He gave himself up," the policeman answered, voice full of awe. "He came to us voluntarily. Look at him. He's like a metal statue. Like some sort of -- god." The golden figure halted for a moment beside Jean. Then it turned slowly, calmly, to face Baines. "Cris!" Jean shrieked. " Why did you come back?" The same thought was eating at Baines, too. He shoved it aside -- for the time being. "Is the jet out front?" he demanded quickly. "Ready to go," one of the CP answered. "Fine." Baines strode past them, down the steps and onto the dirt field. "Let's go. I want him taken directly to the lab." For a moment he studied the massive figure who stood calmly between the two Civil Policemen. Beside him, they seemed to have shrunk, become ungainly and repellent. Like dwarves... What had Jean said? A god come to earth. Baines broke angrily away. "Come on," he muttered brusquely. "This one may be tough; we've never run up against one like it before. We don't know what the hell it can do." except for the seated figure. Four bare walls, floor and ceiling. A steady glare of white light relentlessly etched every comer of the chamber. Near the top of the far wall ran a narrow slot, the view windows through which the interior of the chamber was scanned. The seated figure was quiet. He hadn't moved since the chamber locks had slid into place, since the heavy bolts had fallen from outside and the rows of bright-faced technicians had taken their places at the view windows. He gazed down at the floor, bent forward, hands clasped together, face calm, almost expressionless. In four hours he hadn't moved a muscle. "Well?" Baines said. "What have you learned?" Wisdom grunted sourly. "Not much. If we don't have him doped out in forty-eight hours we'll go ahead with the euth. We can't take any chances." "You're thinking about theTunis type," Baines said. He was, too. They had found ten of them, living in the ruins of the abondoned North African town. Their survival method was simple. They killed and absorbed other life forms, then imitated them and took their places. Chameleons, they were called. It had cost sixty lives, before the last one was destroyed. Sixty top-level experts, highly "Any clues?" Baines asked. "He's different as hell. This is going to be tough." Wisdom thumbed a pile of tape-spools. "This is the complete report, all the material we got from Johnson and his family. We pumped them with the psych-wash, then let them go home. Eighteen years -- and no semantic bridge. Yet, he looks fully developed. Mature at thirteen -- a shorter, faster life-cycle than ours. But why the mane? All the gold fuzz? Like a Roman monument that's been gilded." "Has the report come in from the analysis room? You had a wave-shot taken, of course." "His brain pattern has been fully scanned. But it takes time for them to plot it out. We're all running around like lunatics while he just sits there !" Wisdom poked a stubby finger at the window. "We caught him easily enough. He can't have much, can he? But I'd like to know what it is. Before we euth him." "Maybe we should keep him alive until we know." "Euth in forty-eight hours," Wisdom repeated stubbornly. "Whether we know or not. I don't like him. He gives me the creeps." Wisdom stood chewing nervously on his cigar, a red-haired, beefyfaced man, thick and heavy-set, with a barrel chest and cold, shrewd eyes deep-set in his hard face. Ed Wisdom was Director of But right now he was worried. His tiny eyes darted back and forth, alarmed flickers of gray in his brutal, massive face. "You think," Baines said slowly, "this is it?" "I always think so," Wisdom snapped. "I have to think so." "I mean -- " "I know what you mean." Wisdom paced back and forth, among the study tables, technicians at their benches, equipment and humming computers. Buzzing tape-slots and research hookups. "This thing lived eighteen years with his family and they don't understand it. They don't know what it has. They know what it does, but not how." "What does it do?" "It knows things." "What kind of things?" Wisdom grabbed his lash-tube from his belt and tossed it on a table. "Here." "What?" "Here." Wisdom signalled, and a view window was slid back an inch. "Shoot him." Baines blinked. "You said fortyeight hours." With a curse, Wisdom snatched up the tube, aimed it through the window direcdy at the seated figure's back, and squeezed the trigger. A blinding flash of pink. A cloud of energy blossomed in the center of the chamber. It sparkled, then died into dark ash. "Good God!" Baines gasped. You -- " He broke off. The figure was no longer sitting. As Wisdom fired, it had moved in a blur of speed, away from the blast, to the corner of the chamber. Now it was slowly coming back, face blank, still absorbed in thought. "Fifth time," Wisdom said, as he put his tube away. "Last time Jamison and I fired together. Missed. He knew exactly when the bolts would hit. And where." Baines and Wisdom looked at each other. Both of them were thinking the same thing. "But even reading minds wouldn't tell him where they were going, to hit," Baines said. "When, maybe. But not where. Could you have called your own shots?" "Not mine," Wisdom answered flatly. "I fired fast, damn near at random." He frowned. "Random. We'll have to make a test of this." lie waved a group of technicians over. "Get a construction team up here. On the double." He grabbed paper and pen and began sketching. on, Baines met his fiancee in the lobby outside the lab, the Building. "How's it coming?" she asked. Anita Ferris was tall and blonde, blue eyes and a mature, carefully cultivated figure. An attractive, competent-looking woman in her late twenties. She wore a metal foil dress and cape -- with a red and black stripe on the sleeve, the emblem of the A-Class. Anita was Director of the Semantics Agency," a top-level Government Coordinator. "Anything of interest, this time?" "Plenty." Baines guided her from the lobby, into the dim recess of the bar. Music played softly in the background, a shifting variety of patterns formed mathematically. Dim shapes moved expertly through the gloom, from table to table. Silent, efficient robot waiters. As Anita sipped her Tom Collins, Baines outlined what they had found. "What are the chances," Anita asked slowly, "that he's built up some kind of deflection-cone? There was one kind that warped their environment by direct mental effort. No tools. Direct mind to matter." "Psychokinetics?" Baines drummed restlessly on the table top. "I doubt it. The thing has ability to predict, not to control. He can't stop the beams, but he can sure as hell get out of the way." "Does he jump between the molecules?" Baines wasn't amused. "This is serious. We've handled these things sixty years -- longer than you and I have been around added together. Eighty-seven types of deviants have shown up, real mutants that could reproduce themselves, not mere freaks. This is the eightyeighth. We've been able to handle each of them in turn. But this -- " "Why are you so worried about this one?" "First, it's eighteen years old. That in itself is incredible. Its family managed to hide it that long." "Those women around Denver were older than that. Those ones with -- " "They were in a Government camp. Somebody high up was toying with the idea of allowing them to breed. Some sort of industrial use. We withheld euth for years. But Cris Johnson stayed alive outside our control. Those things at Denver were under constant scrutiny." "Maybe he's harmless. You always assume a deeve is a menace. He might even be beneficial. Somebody thought those women might work in. Maybe this thing has something that would advance the race." " Which race? Not the human race. It's the old 'the operation was a success but the patient died' routine. If we introduce a mutant to keep us going it'll be mutants, not us, who'll inherit the earth. It'll be mutants surviving for their own sake. Don't think for a moment we can put padlocks on them and expect them to serve us. If they're really superior to homo sapiens, they'll win out in even competition. To survive, we've got to cold-deck them right from the start." "In other words, we'll know homo superior when he comes -- by definition. He'll be the one we won't be able to euth." v "That's about it," Baines answered. "Assuming there is a homo superior. Maybe there's just homo peculiar. Homo with an improved line." "The Neanderthal probably thought the Cro-Magnon man had merely an improved line. A little more advanced ability to conjure up symbols and shape flint. From your description, this thing is more radical than a mere improvement." "This thing," Baines said slowly, "has an ability to predict. So far, it's been able to stay alive. It's been able to cope with situations better than you or I could. How long do you think we'd stay alive in that chamber, with energy beams blazing down at us? In a sense it's got the ultimate survival ability. If it can always be accurate -- A wall-speaker sounded. "Baines, you're wanted in the lab. Get the hell out of the bar and upramp." Baines pushed back his chair and got to his feet. "Come along. You may be interested in seeing what Wisdom has got dreamed up." in a circle, middle-aged, grayhaired, listening to a skinny youth in a white shirt and rolled-up sleeves explaining an elaborate cube of metal and plastic that filled the center of the view-platform. From it jutted an ugly array of tube snouts, gleaming muzzles that disappeared into an intricate maze of wiring. "This," the youth was saying briskly, "is the first real test. It fires at random -- as nearly random as we can make it, at least. Weighted balls are thrown up in an air stream, then dropped free to fall back and cut relays. They can fall in almost any pattern. The thing fires according to their pattern. Each drop produces a new configuration of timing and position. Ten tubes, in all. Each will be in constant motion." "And nobody knows how they'll fire?" Anita asked. "Nobody." Wisdom rubbed his thick hands together. "Mind-reading won't help him, not with this thing." Anita moved over to the view windows, as the cube was rolled into place. She gasped. "Is that him?" "What's wrong?" Baines asked. Anita's cheeks were flushed. "Why, I expected a -- a thing. My God, he's beautiful! Like a golden statue. Like a deity!" Baines laughed. "He's eighteen years old, Anita. Too young for you." The woman was still peering through the view window. "Look at him. Eighteen? I don't believe it." Cris Johnson sat in the center of the chamber, on the floor. A posture of contemplation, head bowed, arms folded, legs tucked under him. In the stark glare of the overhead lights his powerful body glowed and rippled, a shimmering figure of downy gold. "Pretty, isn't he?" Wisdom muttered. "All right. Start it going." "You're going to kill him?" Anita demanded. "We're going to try." "But he's -- " She broke off uncertainly. "He's not a monster. He's not like those others, those hideous things with two heads, or those insects. Or those awful things from Tunis." "What is he, then?" Baines asked. "I don't know. But you can't just kill him. It's terrible!" The cube clicked into life. The muzzles jerked, silently altered posidon. Three retracted, disappeared into the body of the cube. Others came out. Quickly, efficiently, they moved into position -- and abruptly, without warning, opened fire. A staggering burst of energy fanned out, a complex pattern that altered each moment, different angles, different velocities, a bewildering blur that cracked from the windows down into the chamber. The golden figure moved. He dodged back and forth, expertly avoiding the bursts of energy that seared around him on all sides. Rolling clouds of ash obscured him ; he was lost in a mist of crackling fire and ash. "Stop it!" Anita shouted. "For God's sake, you'll destroy him!" The chamber was an inferno of energy. The figure had completely disappeared. Wisdom waited a momerit, then nodded to the technicians operating the cube. They touched guide buttons and the muzzles slowed and died. Some sank back into the cube. All became silent. The works of the cube ceased humming. Cris Johnson was still alive. He emerged from the settling clouds of ash, blackened and singed. But unhurt. He had avoided each beam. He had weaved between them and among them as they came, a dancer leaping over glittering sword-points of pink fire. He had survived. "No," Wisdom murmured, shaken and grim. "Not a telepath. Those were at random. No prearranged pattern." each other, dazed and frightened. Anita was trembling. Her face was pale and her blue eyes were wide. "What, then?" She whispered. "What is it? What does he have?" "He's a good guesser," Wisdom suggested. "He's not guessing," Baines answered. "Don't kid yourself. That's the whole point." "No, he's not guessing." Wisdom nodded slowly. "He knew. He predicted each strike. I wonder... Can he err? Can he make a mistake?" "We caught him," Baines pointed out. "You said he came back voluntarily." There was a strange look on Wisdom's face. "Did he come back after the clamp was up?" Baines jumped. "Yes, after." "He couldn't have got through the clamp. So he came back." Wisdom grinned wryly. "The clamp must actually have been perfect. It was supposed to be." "If there had been a single hole," Baines murmured, "he would have known it -- gone through." Wisdom ordered a group of armed guards over, "Get him out of there. To the euth stage." Anita shrieked. "Wisdom, you can't -- " "He's too far ahead of us. We can't compete with him." Wisdom's eyes were bleak. "We can only guess what's going to happen. He knows. For him, it's a sure thing. I don't think it'll help him at euth, though. The whole stage is flooded simultaneously. Instantaneous gas, released throughout." He signalled impatiently to the guards. "Get going. Take him down right away. Don't waste any time." "Can we?" Baines murmured thoughtfully. The guards took up positions by one of the chamber locks. Cautiously, the tower control slid the lock back. The first two guards stepped cautiously in, lash-tubes ready. Cris stood in the center of the chamber. His back was to them as they crept toward him. For a moment he was silent, utterly unmoving. The guards fanned out, as more of them entered the chamber. Then -- Anita screamed. Wisdom cursed. The golden figure spun and leaped forward, in a flashing blur of speed. Past the triple line of guards, through the lock and into the corridor. "Get him!" Baines shouted. Guards milled everywhere. Flashes of energy lit up the corridor, as the figure raced among them, up the ramp. "No use," Wisdom said calmly. "We can't hit him." He touched a button, then another. "But maybe this will help." "What -- " Baines began. But the leaping figure shot abruptly at him, straight at him, and he dropped to one side. The figure flashed past. It ran effortlessly, face without expression, dodging and jumping as the energy beams seared around it. For an instant the golden face loomed up before Baines. It passed and disappeared down a side corridor. Guards rushed after it, kneeling and firing, shouting orders excitedly. In the bowels of the building, heavy guns were rumbling up. Locks slid into place as escape corridors were systematically sealed off. "Good God," Baines gasped, as he got to his feet. "Can't he do anything but run?" "I gave orders," Wisdom said, "to have the building isolated. There's no way out. Nobody comes and nobody goes. He's loose here in the building -- but he won't get out." "If there's one exit overlooked, he'll know it," Anita pointed out shakily. "We won't overlook any exit. We got him once ; we'll get him again." A messenger robot had come in. Now it presented its message respectfully to Wisdom. "From analysis, sir." Wisdom tore the tape open. "Now we'll know how it thinks." His hands were shaking. "Maybe ve can figure out its blind spot. It may be able to out think us, but that doesn't mean it's invulnerable. It only predicts the future -- it can't change it. If there's only death ahead, its ability won't..." Wisdom's voice faded into silence. After a moment he passed the tape to Baines. "I'll be down in the bar," Wisdom said. "Getting a good stiff drink." His face had turned leadgray. "All I can say is I hope to hell this isn't the race to come." "What's the analysis?" Anita demanded impatiently, peering over Baines' shoulder. "How does it think?" "It doesn't," Baines said, as he handed the tape back to his boss. "It doesn't think at all. Virtually no frontal lobe. It's not a human being -- it doesn't use symbols. It's nothing but an animal." "An animal," Wisdom said, "With a single highly-developed faculty. Not a superior man. Not a man at all." and equipment clanged. Loads of Civil Police were pouring into the building and taking up positions beside the guards. One by one, the corridors and rooms were being inspected and sealed off. Sooner or later the golden figure of Cris Johnson would be located and cornered. "We were always afraid a mutant with superior intellectual powers would come along," Baines said reflectively. "A deeve who would be to us what we are to the great apes. Something with a bulging cranium, telepathic ability, a perfect semantic system, ultimate powers of symbolization and calculation. A development along our own path. A better human being." "He acts by reflex," Anita said wonderingly. She had the analysis and was sitting at one of the desks studying it intently. "Reflex -- like a lion. A golden lion." She pushed the tape aside, a strange expression on her face. "The lion god." "Beast," Wisdom corrected tartly. "Blond beast, you mean." "He runs fast," Baines said, "and that's all. No tools. He doesn't build anything or utilize anything outside himself. He just stands and waits for the right opportunity and then he runs like hell." "This is worse than anything we've anticipated," Wisdom said. His beefy face was lead-gray. He sagged like an old man, his blunt hands trembling and uncertain. "To be replaced by an animal! Something that runs and hides. Something without a language!" He spat savagely. "That's why they weren't able to communicate with it. We wondered what kind of semantic system it had. It hasn't got any! No more ability to talk and think than a -- dog." "That means intelligence has failed," Baines went on huskily. "We're the last of our line -- like the dinosaur. We've carried intelligence as far as it'll go. Too far, maybe. We've already got to the point where we know so much -- think so much -- we can't act." "Men of thought," Anita said. "Not men of action. It's begun to have a paralyzing effect. But this thing -- " "This thing's faculty works better than ours ever did. We can recall past experiences, keep them in mind, learn from them. At best, we can make shrewd guesses about the future, from our memory of what's happened in the past. But we can't be certain. We have to speak of probabilities. Grays. Not blacks and whites. We're only guessing." "Cris Johnson isn't guessing," Anita added. "He can look ahead. See what's coming. He can -- prethink. Let's call it that. He can see into the future. Probably he doesn't perceive it as the future." "No," Anita said thoughtfully. "It would seem like the present. He has a broader present. But his present lies ahead, not back. Our present is related to the past. Only the past is certain, to us. To him, the future is certain. And he probably doesn't remember the past, any more than any animal remembers what's happened." "As he develops," Baines said, "as his race evolves, it'll probably expand its ability to prethink. Instead of ten minutes, thirty minutes. Then an hour. A day. A year. Eventually they'll be able to keep ahead a whole lifetime. Each one of them will live in a solid, unchanging world. There'll be no variables, no uncertainty. No motion! They won't have anything to fear. Their world will be perfectly static, a solid block of matter. "And when death comes," Anita said, "they'll accept it. There won't be any struggle; to them, it'll already have happened." "Already have happened Baines repeated. "To Cris, our shots had already been fired." He laughed harshly. "Superior survival doesn't mean superior man. If there were another world-wide flood, only fish would survive. If there were another ice age, maybe nothing but polar bears would be left. When we opened the lock, he had already seen the men, seen exactly where they were standing and what they'd do. A neat faculty -- but not a development of mind. A pure physical sense." "But if every exit is covered," Wisdom repeated, "he'll see he can't get out. He gave himself up before -- he'll give himself up again." He shook his head. "An animal. Without language. Without tools." "With his new sense," Baines said, "he doesn't need anything else." He examined his watch. "It's after two. Is the building completely sealed off?" "You can't leave," Wisdom stated. "You'll have to stay here all night -- or until we catch the bastard." "I meant her." Baines indicated Anita. "She's supposed to be back at Semantics by seven in the morning." Wisdom shrugged. "I have no control over her. If she wants, she can check out." "I'll stay," Anita decided. "I want to be here when he -- when he's destroyed. I'll sleep here." She hesitated. "Wisdom, isn't there some other way? If he's just an animal couldn't we -- " "A zoo?" Wisdom's voice rose in a frenzy of hysteria. "Keep it penned up in the zoo? Christ no! It's got to be killed!" gleaming shape crouched in the darkness. He was in a store room. Boxes and cartons stretched out on all sides, heaped up in orderly rows, all neatly counted and marked. Silent and deserted. But in a few moments people burst in and search the room. He could see this. He saw them in all parts of the room, clear and distinct, men with lash-tubes, grimfaced, stalking with murder in their eyes. The sight was one of many. One of a multitude of clearly-etched scenes lying tangent to his own. And to each was attached a further multitude of interlocking scenes, that finally grew hazier and dwindled away. A progressive vagueness, each syndrome less distinct. But the immediate one, the scene that lay closest to him, was clearly visible. He could easily make out the sight of the armed men. Therefore it was necessary to be out of the room before they appeared. The golden figure got calmly to its feet and moved to the door. The corridor was empty; he could see himself already outside, in the vacant, drumming hall of metal and recessed lights. He pushed the door boldly open and stepped out. A lift blinked across the hall. He walked to the lift and entered it. In five minutes a group of guards would come running along and leap into the lift. By that time he would have left it and sent it back down. Now he pressed a button and rose to the next floor. He stepped out into a deserted passage. No one was in sight. That didn't surprise him. He couldn't be surprised. The element didn't exist for him. The positions of things, the space relationships of all matter in the immediate future, were as certain for him as his own body. The only thing that was unknown was that which had already passed out of being. In a vague, dim fashion, he had occasionally wondered where things went after he had passed them. He came to a small supply closet. It had just been searched. It would be a half an hour before anyone opened it again. He had that long; he could see that far ahead. And then -- And then he would be able to see another area, a region farther beyond. He was always moving, advancing into new regions he had never seen before. A constantly unfolding panorama of sights and scenes, frozen landscapes spread out ahead. All objects were fixed. Pieces on a vast chess board through which he moved, arms folded, face calm. A detached observer who saw objects that lay ahead of him as clearly as those under foot. Right now, as he crouched in the small supply closet, he saw an unusually varied multitude of scenes for the next half hour. Much lay ahead. The half hour was divided into an incredibly complex pattern of separate configurations. He had reached a critical region; he was about to move through worlds of intricate complexity. He concentrated on a scene ten minutes away. It showed, like a three dimensional still, a heavy gun at the end of the corridor, trained all the way to the far end. Men moved cautiously from door to door, checking each room again, as they had done repeatedly. At the end of the half hour they had reached the supply closet. A scene showed them looking inside. By that time he was gone, of course. He wasn't in that scene. He had passed on to another. The next scene showed an exit. Guards stood in a solid line. No way out. He was in that scene. Off to one side, in a niche just inside the door. The street outside was visible, stars, lights, outlines of passing cars and people. In the next tableau he had gone back, away from the exit. There was no way out. In another tableau he saw himself at other exits, a legion of golden figures, duplicated again and again, as he explored regions ahead, one after another. But each exit was covered. In one dim scene he saw himself lying charred and dead; he had tried to run through the line, out the exit. But that scene was vague. One wavering, indistinct still out of many. The inflexible path along which he moved would not deviate in that direction. It would not turn him that way. The golden figure in that scene, the miniature doll in that room, was only distantly related to him. It was himself, but a far-away self. A self he would never meet. He forgot it and went on to examine the other tableau. The myriad of tableaux that surrounded him were an elaborate maze, a web which he now considered bit by bit. He was looking down into a doll's house of infinite rooms, rooms without number, each with its furniture, its dolls, all rigid and unmoving. The same dolls and furniture were repeated in many. He, himself, appeared often. The two men on the platform. The woman. Again and again the same combinations turned up; the play was redone frequently, the same actors and props moved around in all possible ways. Before it was time to leave the supply closet, Cris Johnson had examined each of the rooms tangent to the one he now occupied. He had consulted each, considered its contents thoroughly. He pushed the door open and stepped calmly out into the hall. He knew exactly where he was going. And what he had to do. Crouched in the stuffy closet, he had quietly and expertly examined each miniature of himself, observed which clearly-etched configuration lay along his inflexible path, the one room of the doll house, the one set out of legions, toward which he was moving. foil dress, hung it over a hanger, then unfastened her shoes and kicked them under the bed. She was just starting to unclip her bra when the door opened. She gasped. Soundlessly, calmly, l hr great golden shape closed the dour and bolted it after him. Anita snatched up her lash-tube from the dressing table. Her hand shook; her whole body was trembling. "What do you want?" she demanded. Her fingers tightened convulsively around the tube. "I'll kill you." The figure regarded her silently, arms folded. It was the first time she had seen Cris Johnson closely. The great dignified face, handsome and impassive. Broad shoulders. The golden mane of hair, golden skin, pelt of radiant fuzz -- "Why?" she demanded breathlessly. Her heart was pounding wildly. "What do you want?" She could kill him easily. But the lash-tube wavered. Cris Johnson stood without fear; he wasn't at all afraid. Why not? Didn't he understand what it was? What the small metal tube could do to him? "Of course," she said suddenly, in a choked whisper. "You can see ahead. You know I'm not going to kill you. Or you wouldn't have come here." She flushed, terrified -- and embarrassed. He knew exactly what she was going to do; he could see it as easily as she saw the walls of the room, the wall-bed with its covers folded neatly back, her clothes hanging in the closet, her purse and small things on the dressing table. "All right." Anita backed away, then abruptly put the tube down on the dressing table. "I won't kill you. Why should I?" she fumbled in her purse and got out her cigarettes. Shakily, she lit up, her pulse racing. She was scared. And strangely fascinated. "Do you expect to stay here? It won't do any good. They've come through the dorm twice, already. They'll be back." Could he understand her? She saw nothing on his face, only blank dignity. God, he was huge! It wasn't possible he was only eighteen, a boy, a child. He looked more like some great golden god, come down to earth. She shook the thought off savagely. He wasn't a god. He was a beast. The blond beast, come to take the place of man. To drive man from the earth. Anita snatched up the lash-tube. "Get out of here! You're an animal! A big stupid animal! You can't even understand what I'm saying -- you don't even have a language. You're not human." Cris Johnson remained silent. As if he were waiting. Waiting for what? He showed no sign of fear or impatience, even though the corridor outside rang with the sound of men searching, metal against metal, guns and energy tubes being dragged around, shouts and dim rumbles as section after section of the building was searched and sealed off. "They'll get you," Anita said. "You'll be trapped here. They'll be searching this wing any moment." She savagely stubbed out her cigarette out. "For God's sake, what do you expect me to do?" Cris moved toward her. Anita shrank back. His powerful hands caught hold of her and she gasped in sudden terror. For a moment she struggled blindly, desperately. "Let go!" She broke away and leaped back from him. His face was expressionless. Calmly, he came toward her, an impassive god advancing to take her. "Get away!" She groped for the lash-tube, trying to get it up. But the tube slipped from her fingers and rolled onto the floor. Cris bent down and picked it up. He held it out to her, in the open palm of his hand. "Good God," Anita whispered. Shakily, she accepted the tube, gripped it hesitantly, then put it down again on the dressing table. In the half-light of the room, the great golden figure seemed to glow and shimmer, outlined against the darkness. A god -- no, not a god. An animal. A great golden beast, without a soul. She was confused. Which was he -- or was he both? She shook her head, bewildered. It was late, almost four. She was exhausted and confused. Cris took her in his arms. Gently, kindly, he lifted her face and kissed her. His powerful hands held her tight. She couldn't breathe. Darkness, mixed with the shimmering golden haze, swept around her. Around and around it spiralled, carrying her senses away. She sank down into it gratefully. The darkness covered her and dissolved her in a swelling torrent of sheer force that mounted in intensity each moment, until the roar of it beat against her and at last blotted out everything. automatically pushed her hair into place. Cris was standing before the closet. He was reaching up, getting something down. He turned toward her and tossed something on the bed. Her heavy metal foil traveling cape. Anita gazed down at the cape without comprehension. "What do you want?" Cris stood by the bed, waiting. She picked up the cape uncertainly. Cold creepers of fear plucked at her. "You want me to get you out of here," she said softly. "Past the guards and the CP." Cris said nothing. "They'll kill you instantly." She got unsteadily to her feet. "You can't run past them. Good God, don't you do anything but run? There must be a better way. Maybe I can appeal to Wisdom. I'm Class A -- Director Class. I can go directly to the Full Directorate. I ought to be able to hold them off, keep back the euth indefinitely. against us if we try to break past -- " She broke off. "But you don't gamble," she continued slowly. "You don't go by odds. You know what's coming. You've seen the cards already." She studied his face intently. "No, you can't he cold-decked. It wouldn't be possible." For a moment she stood deep in thought. Then with a quick, decisive motion, she snatched up the cloak and slipped it around her bare shoulders. She fastened the heavy belt, bent down and got her shoes from under the bed, snatched up her purse, and hurried to the door. "Come on," she said .She was breathing quickly, cheeks flushed. "Let's go. While there are still a number of exits to choose from. My car is parked outside, in the lot at the side of the building. We can get to my place in an hour. I have a winter home in Argentina. If worst comes to worst we can fly there. It's in the back country, away from the cities. Jungle and swamps. Cut-off from almost everything." Eagerly, she started to open the door. Cris reached out and stopped her. Gently, patiently, he moved in front of her. He waited a long time, body rigid. Then he turned the knob and stepped boldly out into the corridor. The corridor was empty. No one was in sight. Anita caugbt a faint glimpse, the back of a guard hurrying off. If they had come out a second earlier -- Cris started down the corridor. She ran after him. He moved rapidly, effortlessly. The girl had trouble keeping up with him. He seemed to know exactly where to go. Off to the right, down a side hall, a supply passage. Onto an ascent freight-lift. They rose, then abruptly halted. Cris waited again. Presently he slid the door back and moved out of the lift. Anita followed nervously. She could hear sounds: guns and men, very close. They were near an exit. A double line of guards stood directly ahead. Twenty men, a solid wall -- and a massive heavy-duty robot gun in the center. The men were alert, faces strained and tense. Watching wide-eyed, guns gripped tight. A Civil Police officer was in charge. "We'll never get past," Anita gasped. "We wouldn't get ten feet." She pulled back. "They'll -- " Cris took her by the arm and continued calmly forward. Blind terror leaped inside her. She fought wildly to get away, but his fingers were like steel. She couldn't pry them loose. Quietly, irresistibly, the great golden creature drew her along beside him, toward the double line of guards. "There he is!" Guns went up. Men leaped into action. The barrel of the robot cannon swung around. "Get him !" Anita was paralyzed. She sagged against the powerful body beside her, tugged along helplessly by his inflexible grasp. The lines of guards came nearer, a sheer wall of guns. Anita fought to control her terror. She stumbled, half-fell. Cris supported her effortlessly. She scratched, fought at him, struggled to get loose -- "Don't shoot!" she screamed. Guns wavered uncertainly. "Who is she?" The guards were moving around, trying to get a sight on Cris without including her. "Who's he got there?" One of them saw the stripe on her sleeve. Red and black. Director Class. Top-level. "She's Class A." Shocked, the guards retreated. "Miss, get out of the way!" Anita found her voice. "Don't shoot. He's -- in my custody. You understand? I'm taking him out." The wall of guards moved back nervously. "No one's supposed to pass. Director Wisdom gave orders -- " "I'm not subject to Wisdom's authority." She managed to edge her voice with a harsh crispness. "Get out of the way. I'm taking him to the Semantics Agency." For a moment nothing happened. There was no reaction. Then slowly, uncertainly, one guard stepped aside. Cris moved. A blur of speed, away from Anita, past the confused guards, through the breach in the line, out the exit, and onto the street. Bursts of energy flashed wildly after him. Shouting guards milled out. Anita was left behind, forgotten. The guards, the heavyduty gun, were pouring out into the early morning darkness. Sirens wailed. Patrol cars roared into life, Anita stood dazed, confused, leaning against the wall, trying to get her breath. He was gone. He had left her. Good God -- what had she done? She shook her head, bewildered, her face buried in her hands. She had been hypnotized. She had lost her will, her common sense. Her reason! The animal, the great golden beast, had tricked her. Taken advantage of her. And now he was gone, escaped into the night. Miserable, agonized tears trickled through her clenched fingers. She rubbed at them futilely; but they kept on coming. never get him, now. He's probAnita sat huddled in the corner, her face to the wall. A little bent heap, broken and wretched. Wisdom paced back and forth. "But where can he go? Where can he hide? Nobody'll hide him! Everybody knows the law about deeves!" "He's lived out in the woods most of his life. He'll hunt -- that's what he's always done. They wondered what he was up to, off by himself. He was catching game and sleeping under trees." Baines laughed harshly. "And the first woman he meets will be glad to hide him -- as she was." He indicated Anita with a jerk of his thumb. "So all that gold, that mane, that god-like stance, was for something. Not just ornament." Wisdom's thick lips twisted. "He doesn't have just one faculty -- he has two. One is new, the newest thing in survival methods. The other is as old as life." He stopped pacing to glare at the huddled shape in the corner. "Plumage. Bright feathers, combs for the roosters swans, birds, bright scales for the fish. Gleaming pelts and manes for the animals. An animal isn't necessarily bestial. Lions aren't bestial. Or tigers. Or any of the big cats. They're anything but bestial." "He'll never have to worry," Baines said. "He'll get by -- as long as human women exist to take care of him. And since he can see ahead, into the future, he already knows he's sexually irresistible to human females." "We'll get him," Wisdom muttered. "I've had the Government declare an emergency. Military and Civil Police will be looking for him. Armies of men -- a whole planet of experts, the most advanced machines and equipment. We'll flush him, sooner or later." "By that time it won't make any difference," Baines said. He put his hand on Anita's shoulder and patted her ironically. "You'll have company, sweetheart. You won't be the only one. You're just the first of a long procession." "Thanks," Anita grated. "The oldest survival method and the newest. Combined to form one perfectly adapted animal. How the hell are we going to stop him? We can put you through a sterilization tank -- but we can't pick them all up, all the women he meets along the way. And if we miss one we're finished." "We'll have to keep trying," Wisdom said. "Round up as many as we can. Before they can spawn." Faint hope glinted in his tired, sagging face. "Maybe his characteristics are recessive. Maybe ours will cancel his out." "I wouldn't lay any money on that," Baines said. "I think I know already which of the two strains is going to turn up dominant." He grinned wryly. "I mean, I'm making a good guess. It won't be us." That Bind , by Walter Miller, Jr. -- a stirring, penetrating new novelette about Man's oldest heritage -- in the May issue on sale March #th! The remarkable thing about Atummyc Afterbath Dusting Powder was that it gave you that lovely, radiant, atomic look -- fust the way the advertisements said it would. In fact, it also gave you a little something more! Breeder Reaction By Winston Marks Illustrated by Kelly Freas not as cut and dried as many people think. Sometimes you spend and then some little low-budget campaign will catch the public's fancy and walk away with merchandising honors of the year. Let me sound a warning, however. When this happens, watch out! There's always a reason for it, and it isn't always just a matter of bright slogans and semantic genius. Sometimes the product itself does the trick. And when this happens people in the industry lose their heads trying to capitalize on the "freak" good fortune. This can lead to disaster. May I cite one example? I was on loan to Elaine Templeton, Inc., the big cosmetics fern, when one of these "prairie fires" took off and, as product engineer from the firm of Bailey Hazlitt  Persons, Advertising Agency, I figured I had struck pure gold. My assay was wrong. It was fool's gold on a pool of quicksand. Madame "Elaine", herself, had called me in for consultation on a huge lipstick campaign she was pull ever)so often to get the ladies to chuck their old lip-goo and invest in the current dream of non-smearability. It's an old gimmick, and the new product is never actually kiss-proof, but they come closer each year, and the gals tumble for it every time. Well, they wanted my advice on a lot of details such as optimum shades, a new name, size, shape and design of container. And they were ready to spend a hunk of moolah on the build-up. You see, when they give a product a firstclass advertising ride they don't figure on necessarily showing a profit on that particular item. If they break even they figure they are ahead of the game, because the true purpose is to build up the brand name. You get enough women raving over the new Elaine Templeton lipstick, and first thing you know sales start climbing on the whole line of assorted aids to seduction. Since E. T., Inc., was one of our better accounts, the old man told me to take as long as was needed, so I moved in to my assigned office, in the twelve-story E. T. building, secretary, Scotch supply, icebags, ulcer pills and all, and went to work setting up my survey staff. This product engineering is a matter of "cut and try" in some fields. You get some ideas, knock together some samples, try them on the public with a staff of interviewers, tabulate the results, draw your conclusions and hand them over to Production with a prayer. If your ad budget is large enough your prayer is usually answered, because the American Public buys principally on the "we knoV what we like, and we like what we know" principle. Make them "know it" and they'll buy it. Maybe in love, absence makes the heart grow fonder, but in this business, familiarity breeds nothing but sales. Madame Elaine had a fair staff of idea boys, herself. In fact, every other department head had some gimmick he was trying to push to get personal recognition. The Old Hag liked this spirit of initiative and made it plain to me I was to give everyone a thorough hearing. This is one of the crosses you have to bear. Everyone but the janitor was swarming into my office with suggestions, and more than half of them had nothing to do with the lipstick campaign at all. So I dutifully listened to each one, had my girl take impressive notes and then lifted my left or my right eyebrow at her. My left eyebrow meant file them in the wastebasket. This is how the Atummyc Afterbath Dusting Powder got lost in the shuffle, and later I was credited with launching a new item on which I didn't even have a record. It came about this way: one of the Old Hag's promotion-minded pixies flounced her fanny into my interview chair, crossed her knees up to her navel and began selling me her pet project. She was a relative of the Madame as well as a department head, so I had to listen. Her idea was corny -- a new dusting powder with "Atummion" added, to be called, "Atummyc Afterbath Dusting Powder" -- "Atummyc", of course, being a far-fetched play on the word "atomic". What delighted her especially was that the intimate, meaningful word "tummy" occurred in her coined trade name, and this was supposed to do wonders in stimulating the imaginations of the young females of mancatching-age. As I said, the idea was corny. But the little hazel-eyed pixie was not. She was about #, blackhaired, small-waisted and bubbling with hormones. With her shapely knees and low-cut neckline she was a pleasant change of scenery from the procession of self-seeking middle-agers I had been interviewing -- not that her motive was any different. I stalled a little to feast my eyes. "This Atummion Added item," I said, "just what is Atum mion?" "That's my secret," she said, squinching her eyes at me like a fun-loving little cobra. "My brother is assistant head chemist, and he's worked up a formula of fission products we got from the Atomic Energy Commission for experimentation." "Fission products!" I said. "That stuff's dangerous!" "Not this formula," she assured me. "Bob says there's hardly any radiation to it at all. Perfectly harmless." "Then what's it supposed to do?" I inquired naively. She stood up, placed one hand on her stomach and the other behind her head, wiggled and stretched. "Atummyc Bath Powder will give milady that wonderful, vibrant, atomic feeling," she announced in a voice dripping with innuendo. "All right," I said, "that's what it's supposed to do. Now what does it really do?" "Smells good and makes her slippery-dry, like any other talcum," she admitted quite honestly. "It's the name and the idea that will put it across." reminded her. "I'm afraid the whole thing is a little too far off the track to consider at this time. I'm here to make a new lipstick go. Maybe later -- " "I appreciate that, but honestly, don't you think it's a terrific idea?" "I think you're terrific," I told her, raising my left eyebrow at my secretary, "and we'll get around to you one of these days." "Oh, Mr. Sanders!" she said, exploding those big eyes at me and shoving a half-folded sheet of paper at me. "Would you please sign my interview voucher?" In Madame Elaine's organization you had to have a written "excuse" for absenting yourself from your department during working hours. I supposed that the paper I signed was no different from the others. Anyway, I was still blinded by the atomic blast of those hazel eyes. After she left I got to thinking it was strange that she had me sign the interview receipt. I couldn't remember having done that for any other department heads. I didn't tumble to the pixie's gimmick for a whole month, then I picked up the phone one day and the old man spilled the news. "I thought you were making lipstick over there. What's this call for ad copy on a new bath powder?" The incident flashed back in my mind, and rather than admit I had been by-passed I lied, "You know the Madame. She always gets all she can for her money." The old man muttered, "I don't see taking funds from the lipstick campaign and splitting them off into little projects like this," he said. "Twenty-five thousand bucks would get you one nice spread in the Post, but what kind of a oneshot campaign would that be?" I mumbled excuses, hung up and screamed for the pixie. My secretary said, "Who?" "Little sexy-eyes. The Atomic Bath Powder girl." Without her name it took an hour to dig her up, but she finally popped in, plumped down and began giggling. "You found out." "How," I demanded, "did you arrange it?" "Easy. Madame Elaine's in Paris. She gave you a free hand, didn't she?" I nodded. "Well, when you signed your okay on the Atummyc -- " "That was an interview voucher!" "Not -- exactly," she said ducking her head. The damage was done. You don't get ahead in this game by admitting mistakes, and the production department was already packaging and labelling samples of Atummyc Bath Powder to send out to the distributors. out of my lipstick budget and keep my mouth shut. When the ad copy came over from my firm I looked it over, shuddered at the quickie treatment they had given it and turned it loose. Things were beginning to develop fast in my lipstick department, and I didn't have time to chase the powder thing like I should have -- since it was my name on the whole damned project. So I wrote off the money and turned to other things. We were just hitting the market with Madame Elaine Templeton's "Kissmet" when the first smell of smoke came my way. The pixie came into my office one morning and congratulated me. "You're a genius!" she said. "Like the Kissmet campaign, do you?" I said pleased. "It stinks," she said holding her nose. "But Atummyc Bath Powder will pull you out of the hole." "Oh, that," I said. "When does it go to market?" "Done went -- a month ago." "What? Why you haven't had time to get it out of the lab yet. Using a foreign substance, you should have had an exhaustive series of allergy skin tests on a thousand women before -- " "I've been using it for two months myself," she said. "And look at me! See any rashes?" I focussed my eyes for the first time, and what I saw made me wonder if I were losing my memory. The pixie had been a pretty little French pastry from the first, but now she positively glowed. Her skin even had that "radiant atomic look", right out of our corny, low-budget ad copy. "What -- have you done to yourself, fallen in love?" "With Atummyc After Bath Powder," she said smugly. "And so have the ladies. The distributors arc all reordering." Well, these drug sundries houses have some sharp salesmen out, and I figured the bath powder must have caught them needing something to promote. It was a break. If we got the # back it wouldn't hurt my alibi a bit, in case the Kissmet production failed to click. Three days later the old man called me from the New York branch of our agency. "Big distributor here is hollering about the low budget we've given to this Atummyc Bath Powder thing," he said. "He tells me his men have punched it hard and he thinks it's catching on pretty big. Maybe you better talk the Madame out of a few extra dollars." "The Old Hag's in Europe," I told him, "and I'm damned if I'll rob the Kissmet Lipstick deal any more. It's mostly spent anyway." The old man didn't like it. When you get the distributors on your side it pays to back them up, but I was too nervous about the wobbly first returns we were getting on the Kissmet campaign to consider taking away any of the unspent budget and throwing it into the bath powder deal. The next day I stared at an order from a west coast wholesaler and began to sweat. The pixie fluttered it under my nose. "Two more carloads of Atummyc Bath Powder," she gloated. "Two more carloads?" "Certainly. All the orders are reading carloads she said. "Tills thing has busted wide open." And it had. Everybody, like I said earlier, lost their head. The bath-powder plant was running three shifts and had back-orders chin high. The general manager, a joker name of Jennings, got excited, cabled Madame Elaine to get back here pronto, which she did, and then the panic was on. The miracle ingredient was this Atummion, and if Atummion sold bath powder why wouldn't it sell face-cream, rouge, mud-packs, shampoos, finger-nail polish and eye-shadow? For that matter, the Old Hag wanted to know, why wouldn't it sell Kissmet Lipstick? The answer was, of course, that the magic legend "Contains the Exclusive New Beauty Aid, Atummion" did sell these other products. Everything began going out in carload lots as soon as we had the new labels printed, and to be truthful, I breathed a wondrous sigh of relief, because up to that moment my Kissmet campaign had promised to fall flat on its lying, crimson face. about Atummion seeped in slowly. Item one: Although we put only a pinch of it in a whole barrel of talcum powder, it did give the female users a terrific complexion! Pimples, black-heads, warts, freckles and even minor scars disappeared after a few weeks, and from the very first application users mailed us testimonials swearing to that "atomic feeling of loveliness". Item two: About one grain of Atummion to the pound of lipstick brought out the natural color of a woman's lips and maintained it there even after the lipstick was removed. Item three: There never was such a shampoo. For once the ad copywriters failed to exceed the merits of their product. Atummiontinted hair took on a sparkling look, a soft texture and a natural-appearing wave that set beauty-operators screaming for protection. These beauticians timed their complaint nicely. It got results on the morning that the whole thing began to fall to pieces. About ten A. M. Jennings called a meeting of all people concerned in the Atummyc Powder project, and they included me as well as the pixie and her brother, the assistant chemist. Everyone was too flushed with success to take Jennings' opening remark too seriously. "It looks like we've got a winner that's about to lose us our shirts," he said. He shuffled some papers and found the one he wanted to hit us with first. "The beauticians claim we are dispensing a dangerous drug without prescription. They have brought suits to restrain our use." Madame Elaine in her mannishly tailored suit was standing by a window staring out. She said, "The beauticians never gave us any break, anyway. Hell with them! What's next?" Jennings lifted another paper. "I agree, but they sicked the Pure Food and Drug people on us. They tend to concur." "Let them prove it first," the Old Hag said turning to the pixie's brother. "Eh, Bob!" "It's harmless!" he protested, but I noticed that the pixie herself, for all her radiance, had a troubled look on her face. The general manager lifted another paper. "Well, there seems to be enough doubt to have caused trouble. The Pure Food and Drug labs have by-passed the courts and put in a word to the Atomic Eneroff our supply of the fission salts that go into Atummion, pending tests." That brought us all to our feet. Madame Elaine stalked back to the huge conference table and stared at Bob, the chemist. "How much of the gunk do we have on hand?" "About a week's supply at present production rates." He was pale, and he swallowed his adam's apple three times. The worst was yet to come. The pixie looked around the table peculiarly unchanged by the news. She had trouble in her face but it had been there from the start of the conference. "I wasn't going to bring this up just yet," she said, "but since we're here to have a good cry I might as well let you kick this one around at the same time. Maybe you won't mind shutting down production after all." The way she said it froze all of us except the Madame. The Madame said, "Well, speak up! What is it?" "I've been to twelve different doctors, including eight specialists. I've thought and thought until I'm half crazy, and there just isn't any other answer," the pixie said. She stared at us and clenched her fists and beat on the shiny table. "You've got to believe me! There just isn't any other answer. Atummion is responsible for my condition, and all twelve doctors agreed on my condition." Still standing, Madame Elaine Templeton grabbed the back of her chair until her knuckles turned white. "Don't tell me the stuff brings on hives or something!" The pixie threw back her head and a near-hysterical laugh throbbed from her lovely throat. "Hives, hell. I'm pregnant!" for her, because she was unmarried, and that sort of thing is always clumsy. At that moment, however, none of us believed the connection between her condition and Atummion. Being a distant relative of the Madame, she was humored to the extent that we had the lab get some guinea pigs and douse them with Elaine Templeton's After Bath Powder, and they even professed to make a daily check on them. Meanwhile, production ground to a halt on all Atummion-labelled products, which was everything, I think, but the eyebrow pencils. With every drug-store and department store in the country screaming to have their orders filled, it was a delicate matter and took a lot of string-pulling to keep the thing off the front-pages. It wasn't the beautician's open charges that bothered us, because everyone knew they were just disgruntled. But if it leaked out that cut off our fission products, every radio, newspaper and TV commentator in the business would soon make mince-meat of us over the fact that Atummion had not been adequately tested before marketing. And this was so right! We took our chances and submitted honest samples to the Bureau of Weights and Measures and the Pure Food and Drug labs. And held our breath. The morning the first report came back in our favor there was great rejoicing, but that afternoon our own testing lab sent up a man to see Jennings, and he called me instantly. "Sanford, get up here at once. The guinea pigs just threw five litters of babies!" "Congratulations," I told him. "That happens with guinea pigs, I understand." "You don't understand," he thundered at me. "This was test group F-six, all females, and every one has reached maturity since we bought and segregated them." "There must be some mistake," I said. "There better be," he told me. I went to his office and together we picked up the Madame from her penthouse suite. She followed us into the elevator reluctantly. "Absurd, absurd!" was all she could say. We watched the lab man check the ten adult pigs one by one. Even as inexpert as I am in such matters, it was evident that all ten were females, and the five which had not yet participated in blessed events were but hours from becoming mothers. We went our separate ways stunned. Back in my office I pulled out a list of our big wholesale accounts where the Atummion products had been shipped by the carloads. The warehouses were distributed in every state of the union. Then I ran my eye down the list of products which contained the devilish Atummion. There were thiry-eight, in all, including a complete line of men's toiletries, shaving lotion, shampoo, deodorant and body-dusting powder. I thanked God that men didn't have ovaries. Dolores Donet -- that was the pixie's name -- opened my door and deposited herself gingerly in a chair opposite me. I said, "You look radiant." She said, "Don't rub it in, and I'll have a shot of that." I shared my Haig and Haig with her, and we drank to the newly departed bottom of the world. me a list of people who had phoned and a stack of angry telegrams about back-orders, but I waved her away. "Dolores," I said, "there must have been a boy guinea pig loose in that pen. It's just too fantastic!" "Are you accusing me of turning one loose just to get off the hook myself?" she snapped. "What you've got, excuses won't cure," I told her, "but we've got to get facts. My God, if you're right -- " "We've sworn everyone to secrecy," she said. "There's a # bonus posted for each employee who knows about this. Payable when the statute of limitations runs out on possible litigation." "You can't swear the public to secrecy," I said. "Think a minute," she said, coldly. "The married women don't need excuses, and the single girls -- who'll believe them? Half of them or better, have guilty consciences anyway. The rest? They're in the same hoat I was -- without a labful of guinea pigs to back them up." "But -- how did it happen in the first place?" "Bob has been consulting the biologist we retained. He keeps asking the same question. He says parthenogenesis in higher lifeforms is virtually impossible. Bob keeps pointing at the little pigs, and they're going round and round. They're examining the other eleven test pens now, but there's no question in my mind. I have a personal stake in this experiment, and I was very careful to supervise the segregation of males and females." My sanity returned in one glorious rush. There was the bugger factor! Dolores , herself. In her eagerness to clear her own skirts, Dolores had tampered with the integrity of the experiment. Probably, she had arranged for artificial insemination, just to be sure. The tip-off was the hundred percent pregnancy of one whole test-batch. Ten out of ten. Even if one buck had slipped in inadvertently, and someone was covering up the mistake, why you wouldn't expect anything like a # "take". "Dolores," I said, "you are a naughty girl in more ways than one." She got up and refilled her glass shaking her head. "The ever-suspicious male," she said. "Don't you understand? I'm not trying to dodge my responsibility for my condition. The whole mess is my fault from beginning to end. But what kind of a heel will I be if we get shipping out Atummyc products again -- knowing what I do? What's more, if we let the stuff float around indefinitely, someone is going to run comprehensive tests on it, not just allergy test patches like they're doing at the government labs right now." "Yeah," I said, "so we all bury the hottest promotion that ever hit the cosmetics industry and live happily ever after." She hit the deck and threw her whiskey glass at me, which did nothing to convince me that she wasn't telling the tallest tale of the century -- to be conservative. We sat and glared at each other for a few minutes. Finally she said, "You're going to get proof, and damned good proof any minute now." "How so?" Nothing this experiment revealed would be valid to me, I figured, now that I was convinced she had deliberately fouled it up. "Bob and the biologist should be up here any minute. I told them I'd wait in your office. I know something you don't. I'm just waiting for them to verify it." She was much too confident, and I began to get worried again. We waited for ten minutes, fifteen, twenty. I picked up the phone and dialed the lab. The woman assistant answered and said that the two men were on the way up right now. I asked, "What have they been doing down there?" She said, "They've been doing Caesarian sections on the animals in test-pen M-four." "Caesarian sections?" I repeated. She affirmed It, and Dolores Donet got a tight, little, humorless smile on her face. I hung up and said, "They're on their way up, and what's so funny?" She said, "You know what I think? I think you've been using Atummyc products on you." "So what?" I demanded. "I was responsible for this campaign, too. I've been waiting for a rash to develop almost as long as you have." She said, "When Bob comes in, look at his complexion. All three of us have been guinea pigs, I guess." "I still don't see what's so damned amusing." She said, "You still don't tumble, eh? All right. I'll spell it out. Caesarians performed on test batch M-four." "So?" "The 'M' stands for male," she said. She timed it just right. The hall door opened and Bob trailed in with a dazed look. The biologist was half holding him up. His white lab-smock was freshly bloodstained, and his eyes were blank and unseeing. But for all his distress, he was still a good looking young fellow. His skin had that lovely, radiant, atomic look -- just like mine. No one knows the heart of a rebel until his own search for the reason of right or wrong is made. Lieutenant Laskell found the answer to his own personal rebellion deep beneath a turbulent Atlantic , and somehow, when the time came , his decision wasn't too difficult... Way of a Rebel By Walter Miller, Jr. Illustrated by Rudolph Palais - faced his one-man submarine fifty miles off the Florida coast where he had been patrolling in search of enemy subs. Darkness had fallen. He tuned his short wave set to the Miami station just in time to hear the eight o'clock news. The grim announcement that he had expected was quick to come: "In accordance with the provisions of the Twenty-Sixth Amendment, Congress today approved the Manlin Bill, declaring a state of total emergency for the nation. diately and tendered his resignation to the Congress and the people. The executive, legislative, and judiciary are now in the hands of the Department of Defense. Secretary Garson has issued two decrees, one reminding all citizens that they are no longer free to shirk their duties to the nation, the other calling upon the leaders of the Eurasian Soviet to cease air attacks on the American continent or suffer the consequences. "In Secretary Garson's ultimatum to the enemy, he stated : 'Heretofore we have refrained from employing certain weapons of warfare in the vain hope that you would recognize the futility of further aggression and desist from it. You have not done so. You have persisted in your blood-thirsty folly, despite this nation's efforts to reach an agreement for armistice. Therefore I am forced to command you, in the Name of Almighty God, to surrender immediately or be destroyed. I shall allow you one day in which to give evidence of submission. If such evidence is not forthcoming, I shall implement this directive by a total attack..." Mitch Laskell switched off the short wave set and muttered an oath, He squeezed his way up through the narrowconning tower and sat on the small deck, leaning back against the rocket-launcher and dangling his feet in the calm ocean. The night was windless and warm, with the summer stars eyeing the earth benignly. But despite the warmth, he felt clammy ; his hands were shaking a little as he lit a cigarette. The newscast -- it came as no surprise. The world had known for weeks that the Manlin Bill would be passed, and that Garson would be given absolute powers to lead the nation through the war. And his ultimatum to the enemy was no surprise. Garson had long favored an all-out radiological attack, employing every nuclear weapon the country could muster. Heretofore both sides had limited themselves to non-rigged atomic explosives, and had refrained from using bacterial weapons. Garson wanted to take off the boxing-gloves in favor qf steel gauntlets. And now it would happen -- the all-out attack, the masterpiece of homicidal engineering, the final word in destruction. against the rocket-launcher, blew a thoughtful cloud of cigarette smoke toward the bright yellow eye of Areturus, almost directly overhead, and wondered why the Constellation Bootes suddenly looked like a big club ready to fall on the earth, when it had always reminded him of a fly-swatter about to slap the Corona Borealis. He searched himself for horror, but found only a gloomy uneasiness. It was funny, he thought; five years ago men would have been outraged at the notion of an American absolutism, with one man ruling by decree. But now that it had happened, it was not to hard to accept. He wondered at it. And lie soon decided that almost any fact could be accepted calmly after it had already happened. Men would be just as calm after their cities had been reduced to rubble. The human capacity for calmness was almost unlimited, ex post facto , because the routine of daily living had to go on, despite the big business of governments whose leaders invoked the Deity in the cause of slaughter. A voice, echoing up out of the conning tower, made him jump. The command set was barking his call letters. Zero, Mother wants you. I say again: Mother wants you. Acknowledge please. Over." The message meant: return to base immediately. And it implied an urgency in the use of the codeword Mother. He frowned and started up, then fell back with a low grunt. All of his resentment against the world's political jackasses suddenly boiled up inside him as a personal resentment There was something about the metallic rasp of the radio's voice that sparked him to sudden rebelliousness. Zero, Mother wants you, Mother wants you. Acknowledge immediately. Over." He had a good idea what it was all about. All subs were probably being called in for rearmament with cobalt-rigged atomic warheads for their guided missiles. The submarine force would probably be used to implement Garson's ultimatum. They would deliver radiological death to Eurasian coastal cities, and cause the Soviets to retaliate. Why must I participate in the wrecking of mechanical civilization? he thought grimly. But a counter-thought came to trouble him : I have a duty to obey; The country gave me birth and brought me up, and now it's got a war to fight. He arose and let himself down through the conning tower. He reached for the microphone, but the receiver croaked again. are ordered to answer immediately. Mother's fixing shortening bread. Mother wants you. Over." Shortening bread -- big plans, something special, a radiological death-dish for the world. He hated the voice quietly. His hand touched the microphone but did not lift it. He stood poised there in the light of a single glow-lamp, feeling his small sub rocking gently in the calm sea, listening to the quiet purr of the atomics beneath him. He had come to love the little sub, despite the loneliness of long weeks at sea. His only companion was the sub's small computer which was used for navigation and for calculations pertaining to the firing of the rocketmissiles. It also handled the probability mathematics of random search, and automatically radioed periodic position reports to the home-base computer. He glanced suddenly at his watch. It was nearly time for a report. Abruptly he reached out and jerked open the knife-switch in the computer's antenna circuit. Immediately the machine began clicking and clattering and chomping. A bit of paper tape suddenly licked out of its answer-slot. He tore it off and read the neatly printed Mitch "inserted data" by punchately lost its filament-glow, and the computer shot out another bit of He patted it affectionately and grinned. The computer was just a machine, but he found it easy to personalize the thing... The command-set was crackling this is Commsubron Killer. Two messages. Mother wants you. Daddy has a razor strap. Get on the ball out there, boy! Acknowledge. Over." Mitch whitened and picked up the microphone. He keyed the transmitter's carrier and spoke in a quiet hiss. "Commsubron Killer Message for Daddy. Sonnyboy just resigned from the Navy. Go to hell, all of you! Over and out!" He shut off the receiver just as it started to stutter a shocked reply. He dropped die mike and let it dangle. He stood touching his fingertips to his temples and breathing in shallow gasps. Had he gone completely insane? He sat down on the floor of the tiny compartment and tried to think. But he could only feel a bitter resentment welling up out of nowhere. Why? He had always gotten along in the Navy. He was the under-sea equivalent of a fighter pilot, and he had always liked his job. They had even said that "he had the killer instinct" -- or whatever it was that made him grin maliciously when he spotted an enemy sub and streaked in for the kill. want to go back. He wanted to quit the whole damn war and run away. Because of Garson maybe? But no, hadn't he anticipated that before it happened? Why should he kick now, when he hadn't kicked before? And who was he to decide whether Garson was right or wrong? Go back, he thought. There's the microphone. Pick it up and tell Commsubron that you went stircrazy for a little while. Tell him wilco on his message. They won't do anything to you except send you to a nut doctor. Maybe you need one. Go on back like a sane man. But he drew his hand back from the microphone. He wiped his face nervously. Mitch had never spent much time worrying about ethics and creeds and political philosophies. He'd had a job to do, and he did it, and he sometimes sneered at people who could wax starry-eyed about patriotism and such. It didn't make sense. The old school spirit was okay for football games, and even for small-time wars, but he had never felt much of it. He hadn't needed it in order to be a good fighter. He fought because it was considered the "thing to do," because he liked the people he had to live with, and because those people wouldn't have a good opinion of him if he didn't fight. People never needed much of a philosophic motive to make them do the socially approved things. He moistened his lips nervously and stared at the microphone. He was scared. Scared to run away. He had never been afraid of a fight, frightened maybe, but not afraid. Why now? It takes a lot of courage to be a coward, he thought, but the word coward made him wince. He groped blindly for a reasonable explanation of his desire to desert. He wanted to talk to somebody about it, because he was the kind of man who could think best in an argument. But there was no one to talk to except the radio. The computer's keyboard was almost at his elbow. He stared at it for a moment, then slowly typed : The machine chewed on the entry noisily for a few seconds, then He nodded thoughtfully. That was his predicament too: insufficient data about his own motives. How could a man trust himself to judge wisely, when his judgement went completely against that of his society? He typed again. The computer clattered for He stared at it, then laughed grimly. His own malfunction-indicator wasn't telling him much either. With masochistic fatalism he touched the keyboard again. The computer replied almost imMitch stared at it and bit his lip. The machine would follow its own solution, even if the other three contradicted it. Naturally -- it would have to follow its own solution, if there was no indication of malfunction. But could a human being make such a decision? Could a man decide, "I am right, and everyone else is wrong?" No evidence of malfunction , he thought. I am not a coward. Neither am I insane. His heart cried: "I am disgusted with this purposeless war. I shall quit fighting it." He sighed deeply, then arose. There was nothing else to do. The atomic engines could go six months without refueling. There were enough undersea rations to last nearly that long. He switched on the radio again, goosed the engines to full speed, and after a moment's thought, swung around on a northeasterly heading. His first impulse had been to head south, aiming for Yucatan or the Guianas -- but that impulse would also be the first to strike his pursuers who were sure to come. A new voice was growling on the radio, and he recognized it as Captain Barkley, his usually jovial, slightly cynical commanding officer. "Listen, Mitch -- if you can hear me, better answer. What's wrong with you anyhow? I can't hold off much longer. If you don't reply. I'll have to hunt you down. You're ordered to proceed immediately to the nearest base. Over." Mitch wanted to answer, wanted to argue and fume and curse, hoping that he could explain his behaviour to his own satisfaction. But they might not be certain of his exact location, and if he used the radio, half-a-dozen directionfinders would swing around to aim along his signal, and Barkley would plot the half-a-dozen lines on the map in his office before speaking crisply into his telephone : all right. boys -- get him! # #' North , # # #' West. Use a P-charge if you can't spot him by radar or sonar. Mitch left the controls in the hands of the computer and went up to stand in the conning tower with the churning spray washing his face. Surfaced, the sub could make sixty knots, and he meant to stay surfaced until there were hints of pursuit. was rising in gloomy orange majesty out of the quiet sea. It made a river of syrupy light across the water to the east, and it heightened his sense of unreality, Ills feeling of detachment from danger. Is it always like this, he wondered? Can a man toss aside his society so easily, become a traitor with so little logical reason? A day ago, he would not have dreamed it possible. A day ago, he would have proclaimed with the cynical Barkley, "A sailor's got no politics. What the hell's it to me if Garson is Big Boss? I'm just a little tooth in a big gear. Uncle pays my keep. I ask no questions." And now he was running like bucks worth of Uncle's Navy, all because Garson's pomposity and a radio operator's voice got under his skin. How could a man be so crazy? But no, that couldn't be it, he thought. Jeezil! He must have some better reason. Sort of a last straw, maybe. But he had been conscious of no great resentment against the war or the Navy or the government. Historically speaking, wars JL  j' I harm -- no more harm than industrial or traffic accidents. Why was this war any different? It promised to be more destructive than the others, but that was drawing a rather narrow line. Who was he to draw his bayonet across the road and say, "Stop here. This is the limit." Mitch turned his back toward the whipping spray and stared aft along the phosphorescent, moonswept wake of his mechanical shark. The radio was still barking at him with Barkley's clipped tones. "Last warning, Laskell! Get on that microphone or suffer the consequences! We know where you are. I'll give you fifteen minutes, then we'll come get you. Over and out." Thanks for the warning, Mitch thought. In a few minutes, he would have to submerge. His eyes swept the moon-washed heavens for signs of aircraft, and he watched the dark horizon for hints of pursuit. He meant to keep the northeasterly course for perhaps ten hours, then turn off and cruise southeast, passing below Bermuda and on out into the central Atlantic. Then south -- perhaps to Africa or Brazil. A fugitive for the rest of his days. barked the radio. "This is Commsubfleet Jaybird. Over." Mitch moistened his lips nervously. The voice was no longer Barkley's. Commsubfleet Jaybird was Admiral Harrinore. He chuckled bitterly then, realizing that he was still automatically startled by rank. He remained in the is Commsubfleet Jaybird. If you will obey orders immediately, I guarantee that you will be allowed to accept summary discipline. No court martial if you comply. You are to return to base at once. Otherwise, we shall be forced to blast you out of the ocean as a deserter to the enemy. Over." So that was it, he thought. They were worried about the sub falling into Soviet paws. Some of its equipment was still classified "secret", although the Reds probably already had it. No, he wasn't deserting to the enemy. Neither side was right in the struggle, although he preferred the West's brand of wrongness to the bloodier wrongness of the Reds. But a man in choosing the lesser of two evils must first decide whether the choice really has to be made, and if there is not a third and more desirable way. Before picking a weapon for self-destruction, it might help to reason whether or not suicide is really necessary. He smiled sardonically into the gray gloom, knowing that his thinking was running backwards, that he had acted before reasoning why, that he was rationalizing in an attempt to soothe himself and absolve himself. But a lot of human thinking occurred beneath the level of consciousness, down in the darker regions of the mind where it was not allowed to become conscious lest it bring shame to the thinker. And perhaps he had reasoned it all out in that mental halfworld where thoughts are inner ghosts, haunting the possessed man with vague stirrings of uneasiness. leading him into inexplicable behaviour. I am free now, he told himself. I have given them my declaration of independence, and I am an animal struggling to survive. Living in society, a man must submit to its will, but now I am divorced from it, and I shall live apart from it if I live at all, and I shall owe it nothing. The "governed" no longer gives his consent. How many times have men said, "If you don't like the system here, why don't you get out?" Well, he was getting out, and as a freeborn human animal, bom as a savage into the world, he had that right, if he had any rights at all. He grunted moodily and lowered himself down into the belly of the sub. They would be starting the search soon. He sealed the hatches and opened the water intakes after slowing to a crawl. The sub shivered and settled. The indicator crept to ten feet, twenty, thirty. At fifty feet, he jabbed a button on the computer, and the engines growled a harder thrust. He kept the northeasterly heading at maximum underwater speed. for code on the sonar equipment, but heard only the weird and nameless sea-sounds. He allowed himself a reading light in the cramped compartment, folded the map-table up from the wall, and studied the coastline of Africa. He began to feel a frightening loneliness, although scarcely two hours had passed since his rebellious decision, and he was accusii lined to long weeks alone at sea. He scoffed at himself. He would get along okay; the sub would take him any place he wanted to go, if he could escape pursuit. Surely there must be some part of the world where men were not concerned with the senseless struggle of the titans. But all such places were primitive, savage, almost unendurable to a man born and tuned to the violin-string pitch of technological culture. Mitch realized dismally that he loved technological civilization, its giant tools, its roar of mighty engines, its proud structures of concrete and steel. He could sacrifice his love for particular people, for particular places and governments -- but it was going to be harder to relinquish mechanical civilization for some stone-age culture lingering in an out-of-the-way place. Changing tribes was easy, for all tribes belonged to Man, but renouncing machinery for jungle tools would be more difficult. A man could change his politics, his friends, his religion, his country, but Man's tools were a part of his body. Having used a high-powered rifle, the man subsumed the weapon, made it a part of himself. Trading it for a stone axe would be like cutting off his arm. Man was a user of tools, a shaper of environments. That was it, he thought. The reason for his sudden rebellion, the narrow dividing line between tolerable and insufferable wars. A war that killed human beings might be tolerable, if it left most of civilizations' industry intact, or at least restorable, for although men might die, Man lived on, still possessing Ms precious tools, still capable of producing greater ones. But a war that wrecked industry, left it a tangled jumble of radioactive concrete and steel -- that kind of war was insufferable, as this one threatened to be. The idea shocked him. Kill a few men, and you scratch the hide of Historical Man. But wreck the industry, drive men out of the cities, leave the factories hissing with beta and gamma radiation, and you amputate the hands of Historical Man the Builder. The machinery of civilization was a living body, with organismic Man as its brain. And the brain had not yet learned to use the body for a constructive purpose. It lacked coordination, and 'the ability to reason its actions analytically. Was he basing action on analytic reason? Another hour had passed. And then he heard it. The sound of faint sonar communication. Quickly he nosed upward to twenty feet, throttled back to half speed, and raised the periscope. With Ms face pressed against the eyepiece, he scanned the moonlit ocean in a slow circle. No lights, no silhouettes against the reflections on the waves. He started the pumps and prepared to surface. Then the conning tower was snorting through the water like a rolling porpoise. He shut off the engines, leaving the sub in utter silence except for the soft wash of the sea. He adjusted the sonar pickups, turned the amplifier to maximum, and listened intently. Nothing. Had he imagined it? He jabbed a button, and a motor purred, rolling out the retractible radar antenna. Carefully he scanned the sky and sea, watching the green-mottled screen for blips. Nothing -- no ships or aircraft visible. But he was certain: for a moment he had heard the twitter of undersea communicators. ing. Perhaps they had heard his engines, although his own equipment had caught none of their drive-noise. The computer was able to supervise several tasks at once, and he set it to continue sweeping the horizon with the radar, to listen for sonar code and engine purr while he attended to other matters. He readied two torpedos and raised a rocket into position for launching. He opened the hatch and climbed to stand in the conning tower again, peering grimly around the horizon. Minutes later, a buzzer sounded beneath him. The computer had something now. He glanced at the parabolic radar antenna, rearing its head a dozen feet above him. It had stopped its aimless scanning and was quivering steadily on the southeast horizon. Southeast? He lowered himself quickly into the ship and stared at the luminous screen. Blips -- three blips -- barely visible. While he watched, a fourth appeared. He clamped on his headsets. There it was! The faint enginenoise of ships. His trained senses told him they were subs. Subs out of the southeast? He had expected interception from the west -- first aircraft, then tight surface vessels. There was but one possible answer: the enemy. He dived for the radio and waited impatiently for the tubes to warm again. He found himself shouting into the mic. "Commsubron Killer, this is message. Over.' I He was a long way from the station. He repeated the call three times. At last a faintly audible voice came from the set. "... this is Commsubron Killer. You are ordered to return immediately..." The voice faded again. "Listen!" Mitch bellowed. "Four, no -- five enemy submarine -- position ##' North, # # #' West, proceeding northwest -- roughly, toward Washington. Probably carrying an answer to Garson's ultimatum. Get help out here. Over." He heard only a brief mutter this time... ordered not to proceed toward Washington. Return immediately to -- " "Not me! You fool! Listen ! Five -- enemy -- submarines -- " He repeated the message as slowly as he could, repeated it four times... , reading you SI came the fading answer. "Are you in distress? I say again. Are you in distress? Over." Angrily Mitch keyed the carrier wave, screwed the button tightly down, and kicked on the four-hundred cycle modulator. Maybe they could get a directional fix on his signal and home on it. The blips were gone from the radar scope. The subs had spotted him and submerged. In a moment he would be catching a torpedo, unless he moved. He started the engines quickly, and the surfaced sub lurched ahead. He nosed her toward the enemy craft and opened the throttle. She knifed through the water like a low-running PT boat, throwing a V-shaped fan of spray. When he reached the halfway point between his own former position and the place where the enemy submerged, he began jabbing a release at three second intervals, laying a trail of deadly eggs. He could hear the crash of the exploding depth-charges behind him. He swung around to make another pass. Then he saw it -- the wet metal hulk rearing up like a massive whale dead ahead. They had discovered the insignificance of their lone and pint-sized attacker. They were coming up to take him with deck guns. Mitch reversed the engines and swung quickly away. The range was too close for a torpedo. The blast would catch them both. He began submerging quickly. A sickening blast shivered his tiny craft, and then another. He dropped to sixty feet, then knifed ahead. God! Why was he doing this? There was no sense in it, if he meant to run away. But then the thought came: they're returning Old Man Garson's big-winded threat. They're bringing a snootful of radiological hell, and that's the damned bayonet-line across the road. ing around him as he wove a zig-zag course. The computer was buzzing frantically. Then he saw why. The rocket launcher hadn't retracted; there was still a rocket in it -- with a snootful of Uranium #. The thing was dragging at the water, slowing him down, causing the sub to shudder and lurch. Apparently all the subs had surfaced, for the charges were falling on all sides. With the launcher dragging at him, they would get him sooner or later. He tried to nose upward, but the controls refused. He knew what would happen if he tried to fire the rocket. Hell, he didn't have to fire it. All he had to do was fuse it. It had a water-pressure fuse, and he was beneath exploding depth. Don't think about it! Do it! No, you've got to think. That's what's wrong. Too much do, not enough think. They're going to wreck mechanical civilization if they keep it up. They're going to wreck Man's tools, cut off his hands, and make him an ape again! But what's it to you? What can you do? Dammit ! You can destroy five wrong tools that were built to wreck the right tools. Mitch, who wanted to quit an all-out war, reached for the fusing switch. This part was his war; destroy the destroyers, but not the producers. Even if it didn't make good military sense -- A close explosion sent him lurching aside. He grabbed at the wall and pushed himself back. The switch -- the damn doubletoggle red switch! He screamed a curse and struck at it with both fists. There came a beautiful, blinding In a world where men flew, Ecks was landbound; in a world of telepathic contact, he was reduced to clumsy words. Y et, for a psi cripple, he was an incredible adversary for the psi-powerful Health Agents, who pursued him, and a commendable guinea pig for his tormentors. Which is the gist of this fascinating yarn that takes you into a world where men flew and... By Robert Sheckley illustrated by Ed Emsh and stretched. He squinted at the sunlight pouring in through the open east wall of his one-room apartment, and ordered his clothes to come to him. They didn't obey! He wiped sleep from his eyes and ordered again. But the closet door remained stubbornly shut, and not a garment stirred. Thoroughly alarmed, Ecks swung out of bed and walked over to the closet. He began to phrase the mental command again, but stopped himself. He must not become panicky. If the clothes didn't obey, it was because he was still half asleep. Deliberately he turned and walked to the east wall. He had rolled it up during the night and now he stood, bare toes gripping the edge, where the floor met the outside wall of the building, looking out at the city. It was early. The milkmen were out, soaring up to the terraces to deposit their milk. A man in full evening dress passed, flying like a wounded bird. Drunk, Ecks decided, noting how uncertain the man's levitation sense was. The man banked, narrowly missing a building, dodged a milkman, misjudged the ground and fell the last two feet. Miraculously he held his balance, shook his head and continued on foot. Ecks grinned, watching him weave down the street. That was the safest place for him. No one ever used the streets, except the Normal's, or psi's who wanted to walk, for some reason. But levitating in his condition, he might get clipped by a teleported bale, or break his neck against a building. A newsboy floated past the window, goggles dangling from his hip pocket. The boy caught his breath and shot up, straight and true, to a twentieth floor penthouse. Ecks craned his neck to watch the boy land his paper on the sunny terrace and sweep on. A penthouse, Ecks thought. That was the life. He lived on the third floor of an ancient building -- so old that it still had stairway and elevator. But once he had finished his courses at Mycrowski university -- once he had his degree -- There was no time for dreaming. Mr. Ollen didn't like him to be late; and his job at Mr. Ollen's store enabled him to attend the University. Ecks walked back, opened the closet and dressed. Then, thoroughly calm, he ordered the bed to make itself. A blanket half-lifted, wavered, and fell back on the bed. He ordered again, angrily. The sheets sluggishly straightened, the blankets slowly crawled into place. The pillow wouldn't move. On the fifth order the pillow dragged itself to the head of the bed. It had taken him almost five minutes to make the bed -- a task he usually finished in seconds. A shocking realization struck him, and his knees buckled; he sat down on the edge of the bed. He wasn't even able to handle simple motor-response teleportation. And that, he knew, was how people discovered they had The Disease. But why? How had it begun? He didn't have any unexplained tensions, any vital, unresolved problems. At twenty-six life was just beginning for him. His studies at the University were going well. He's general psi rating was in the upper tenth, and his sensitivity rating approached the all-time high set by The Sleeper. Why should it happen to him? Why should he catch the only disease left on Earth? "I'll be damned, I don't feel sick," he said out loud, wiping perspiration from his face. Quickly he commanded the wall to close, just to see if it would. And it did! He turned on a faucet by mental command, levitated a glass, filled it and a drop. "Temporary blockage," he told himself. "A fluke." Perhaps he had been studying too hard. More social life, that was what he needed. He sent the glass back to the sink, watching the sunlight glint from it as is swooped through the air. "I'm as good as I ever was," he said. The glass dropped to the floor, shattering. "Just a little shaky," he reassured himself. Of course, he should go to Psi-Health for an examination. If there is any impairment of your psi abilities, don't wait. Don't infect others. Get an examination. Well, should he? Yes, he probably should. But the Psi-Health agents were a jumpy bunch. If he showed his face they'd probably isolate him. Give him a few years of solitary rehabilitation, just to play safe. That would be the end of him. Highly extroverted, Ecks knew himself well enough to realize that he could never stand solitary. His psi abilities would be completely wrecked that way. Nuts, he said, and walked to the wall. Opening it, he looked out on the three story drop, steeled himself, and jumped. For a horrible moment, he thought he had forgotten even the basic skill of levitation. Then he caught it, and soared toward Mr. Ollen's store. Weaving slightly, like a wounded bird. the eighty-second-floor of the Aerinon Building hummed with activity. Messengers levitated in and out the great windows, flying across the room to drop their reports on the Receiving desk. Other reports were teleped in, recorded by PsiGrade-Three telepathic-sensitive office girls. Samples were teleported through the windows, recorded, and shuttled downstairs by Grade Two Polters. A skinny Grade Four psi girl collected the typed reports and levitated them across the room in a steady stream to the file clerks. Three messengers swept in through a single window, laughing, barely clearing the jambs, and shot across the room. One, misjudging his arc, intercepted the path of reports. "Why don't you look where you're going?" the Grade Four girl asked angrily. Her bridge of papers was scattered across the floor. She levitated them again. "Sorry, honey," the messenger said, grinning and handing his report to the receiving desk. He winked at her, looped over the white stream, and shot out the window. "Some nerve," the girl murmured, watching him streak into the sky. Without her attention, the papers began to scatter again. The end-product of all the activity was funneled to the orderly black desk of Senior Health Officer Paul Marrin. "Anything wrong, chief?" Marrin looked up and nodded to his assistant, Joe Leffert. Silently he handed him five file cards. They were breakdown reports. Leffert scanned the first one rapidly. "Jane Martinelli, waitress, Silver Cow, # Broadway. Subject: Loss of psi ability. Observations: Discoordination of psi motor functions. Diagnosis: Acute loss of confidence. Infectious. Recommended: Quarantine, indefinite period." The other reports were about the same. "Quite a few," Leffert said, his tone perfectly even. Another pile of cards was dropped on the black desk. Marrin leafed through them rapidly, his face impassive. The impassivity was mental as well. Not a thought leaked out of his rigidly held mind. "Six more." He turned to a large map behind his desk and pinpointed the new locations. They formed an irregular pattern across almost a third of New York. Leffert didn't have to speak. Even undirected, his teleped thought was strong enough for Marrin to catch. Epidemic! "Keep that to yourself," Marrin said in his normal low voice. He walked slowly back to his desk, considering the implications of eleven cases in a single day, when their average was one a week. "Get me the full reports on these people," Marrin said, handing Leffert the file cards. "I want a list of everyone they've been in contact with over the past two weeks. And keep quiet about it." Leffert hurried away. Marrin thought for a moment, then teleped Krandall, chief of The Sleeper project. Normally, teleped messages were handled through a series of telepathic-sensitive girls; there were just too many minds for most people to make contact easily, without auxiliary guidance. But Marrin's psi abilities were of unusual strength. Also, he was strongly attuned to Krandall, having worked with him for many years. "What's up?" Krandall asked, and the accompanying identityimage had the full, indescribable flavor of the man. Quickly Marrin outlined the situation. "I want you to find out if it's a random scattering, or if we've got a carrier to deal with," Marrin finished. "That'll cost you a supper," Krandall teleped. From the peripheral thoughts, Marrin knew that he was sitting on a pier at Sag Harbor, fishing. "A supper at The Eagles." "Fine. I'll have all the data. Is five-thirty all right?" "Please, my boy! Make it sixthirty. A man of my -- ah -- dimensions -- shouldn't levitate too rapidly." The accompanying visual was of an overstuffed sausage. "At six-thirty, then." They broke contact. Marrin sat back and arranged the papers on his desk into still neater piles. At the moment he wished he were a health officer in some earlier age, with a nice fat germ to hunt down. The source of The Disease was more subtle. Diagnosis: Acute Loss of Confidence. Try putting that under your microscope. He thought momentarily about the waitress, the first case on the files. Perhaps she had been stacking plates on a shelf. A doubt planted in her mind hours before, minutes before, blossomed. The plates fell. And a girl was seriously sick, horribly infected with mankind's last disease. Loss of motorcoordination. So she had to go into solitary, in order not to infect anyone else. For how long? A day, a year. A life. But in the meantime, perhaps some of the customers had caught it from her. And spread it to their wives... He sat upright and teleped his wife. Her answering thought was quick and warm. "Hello, Paul!" He told her he would be working late. "All riglxt," she said, but her accompanying thoughts were confused with a strong desire to know why, and the knowledge that she couldn't ask. "Nothing serious," he said in reply to the unspoken question, and regretted it instantly. Lies, untruths, half-truths -- even little white lies -- didn't telep well. Nevertheless, he didn't retract it. "All right Paul," his wife said, and they broke contact. staff put away their papers and headed for the windows flying to their homes in Westchester Long Island and New Jersey. "Here's the stuff, chief," Leffert said flying up to the desk with a thick briefcase. "Anything else?" "I'd like you to stand by," Marrin said, taking the briefcase. "Telep a few more agents, also." "Right. Do you think something might break?" "I don't know. Better get some supper." Leffert nodded. His eyes grew blank, and Marrin knew he was teleping his wife in Greenwich, telling her he wouldn't be home tonight. Leffert left, and Marrin was left alone in the room, staring at the sunset. Out of the west window he could see the great red disk of the sun, and flitting across it were the black silhouettes of commuters, levitating home. Marrin felt very much alone. Just him and a probable epidemic. At exactly six-twenty, Marrin picked up the briefcase and levitated to The Eagles. two thousand feet above New York, suspended on the backs of # men. The men were Grade One Psi laborers, government-tested for load capacity. As Marrin approached, he saw them under the base of the building. The restaurant floated above them, easily supported by their enormous combined psi strength. Marrin landed on the main guest deck, and was greeted by the head waiter. "How's everything, Mr. Marrin?" the waiter asked, leading him to a terrace. "Fine," Marrin said, as he always did. "You should try our other place some dme, Mr. Marrin. If you're ever near Miami, there's an Eagles there. Same high-quality food." And high-quality prices, Marrin thought, ordering a martini. The owner of the Eagles was making a fortune. Air-borne restaurants were common now, but Eagles had been the first, and was still the most popular. The owner didn't even have to pay a New York property tax; when he wasn't open, he parked his restaurant in a pasture in Pennsylvania. The terraces were starting to fill up when Krandall arrived, out of wind and perspiring. "My God," he gasped, sitting down. "Why aren't there any more airplanes? Bucked a head wind all the way in. Scotch on the rocks." The waiter hurried away. "Why do you have your emergencies on my day off?" Krandall asked, teleping the question. "Long distance flights are for the strong young apes. I am a mental worker. How is your wife?" "The same," Marrin said. His face, schooled for years into a health officer's blank mask, refused to smile now. He ordered his dinner, and handed Krandall the briefcase. "Hramm." Krandall bent over the pages, scanning them rapidly. His broad, good-natured face grew abstracted as he memorized the information. Marrin looked across the terrace while Krandall absorbed the data. The sun was almost gone, and most of the land was in shadow. Beneath him, the lights of New York were winking on in the shaded areas. Above, the stars snapped on. Krandall ignored his soup, flipping the pages quickly. Before the soup was cold, he was through. "That's that," he said. "What shall we talk about?" Krandall was the finest psi calculator in the business. He had to be to head the important Sleeper project. Like all calculators, he let his unconscious do the work. Once the data was committed, he ignored it. Unconsciously, the information was assimilated, examined, compared, synthesized. In a few minutes or hours he would have an answer. Krandall's great talent was compensated for in other ways, though. He couldn't pass a newsboy's test for levitation, and teleportation or telekinetic manifestations were almost out of the question for him. "Is there anything new with The Sleeper?" Marrin asked. "Still sleeping. Some of the boys cooked up a subconscious-infiltration technique. They're trying that in a few days." "Do you think it will work?" Krandall laughed. "I give them a one-point-one probability. That's high, compared with some of the stuff they've tried." Krandall's brook trout was served, teleported fresh from the stream. Marrin's steak followed. "Do you think anything will work?" Marrin asked. "No." Krandall's face was serious as he looked at the lean, impassive health officer. "I don't believe the Sleeper will ever awaken." Marrin frowned. The Sleeper was one of Psi's most important projects, and its least successful. It had started about thirty years ago. Psi had been standard, but still unpredictable. It had come a long way in two hundred years from Rhine's halting experiments in extra-sensory perception, but it still had a long way to go. Mycrowski took a lot of the wildtalent aspect from psi. Classified as an extreme sensitive with geniuslevel psi abilities, Mycrowski was the outstanding man of his age. With men like Krandall, Myers, Blacenck and others, Mycrowski led the telekinesis projects, explored projection techniques, theorized on instantaneous transfer in teleportation and examined the possibilities of new, undiscovered psi abilities. In his spare time he worked on his own pet ideas, and founded the School for Parapsychological Research, later changed to Mycrowski University. What really happened to him was argued for years. One day, Krandall and Blacenck found him lying on a couch with a bare whisper of pulse to show that he was alive. They were unable to revive him. Mycrowski had always believed that the mind was a separate and distinct entity from the body. It was believed that he had discovered a separation-projection technique for the mind. But the mind never returned. Others argued that his mind had simply snapped from too much strain, leaving him in a catatonic state. In any case, periodic attempts were made to awaken him, without success. Krandall, Myers and a few others had kept the project alive, but in a few years they had all the help they needed. The rare quality of Mycrowski's genius was recognized. The tomb where the living body of Mycrowski, The Sleeper, vegetated, became a tourists' shrine. "Haven't you any idea what he was looking for?" Marrin asked. "I don't think he did himself," Krandall said, starting his cherry jubilee. "Oddest damned man in the world. Didn't like to talk about anything until he could throw it in your face as done. None of us had any reason to think anything was going to happen. We were sure that the stars were right around the corner and immortality w r as following that." He shook his head. "Ah, youth, youth." Over the coffee Krandall looked up, pursed his lips and frowned. The assimilated data had synthesized. His conscious mind had the answer in a manner once called intuitive, until psi research pinned down the hidden factor as subconscious reasoning. "You know, Marrin, you've definitely got a growing epidemic on your hands. There's no random scattering of cases." Marrin felt his chest contract. He teleped the question tightly. "Is there a carrier?" "There is." Mentally, Krandall checked the names on his list. His subconscious had correlated the frequency factors, tabulated probabilities and sent up a "hunch". "His name is Edward Ecks. He is a student, living at #I Fourth Avenue." Marrin teleped Leffert immediately and told him to pick up Ecks. "Hold it," Krandall said. "I don't believe you'll find him there. Here's a probability-course of his movements." He teleped the information to Leffert. "Try his apartment first," Marrin told Leffert. "If he's not there, try the next probability. I'll meet you downtown, in case we have to hunt him." He broke contact and turned to Krandall. "For the extent of the emergency you'll work with me?" It was hardly a question. "Of course," Krandall said. "Health has top priority, and The Sleeper isn't going to be doing much moving. But I doubt if you'll have much trouble picking up Ecks. He should be completely crippled by this time." balance and fell heavily to his knees. He got up at once, brushed himself off and started walking. A sloppy levitation, he told himself. So even that was going! The crumbling streets of the lower New York slums were scattered with Normals, people who had never mastered the basic psi power. This mass of landborne people was a sight never seen in the more respectable uptown areas. Ecks moved into the crowd, feeling safer. He discovered, suddenly, that he was hungry. He went into a luncheonette, sat down at the empty counter and ordered a hamburger. The cook had one all ready. Expertly he teleported it to a plate and, without watching, made the plate loop in the air and drop lightly in front of Ecks. Ecks cursed the man's casual ability and reached for the ketchup. He expected the bottle to slide toward him, but it didn't. He looked at it for a moment, blankly, then stretched his arm. He'd have to watch his step, making a mistake like that. Ecks was beginning to discover what it was like to be a cripple. Finished, he held out his hand, palm up, expecting the change in his pocket to come. But of course, it didn't. He cursed silently. He was so used to it -- it didn't seem possible that he could have lost all his faculties at once. But he had, he knew. His unconscious had decided, and no amount of surface assurance would help. The cook was looking at him oddly, so he reached quickly in his pocket, found the change'and paid. He tried to smile at the cook, then hurried out the door. "Queer guy," the cook thought. He dismissed it, but down deep in his mind an appraisal was going on. Inability to command a bottle... Inability to command coins... Ecks walked down the crowded, grimy streets. His legs began to ache. He had never walked so much in his life. Around him were mixed groups of Normals and psi's. The Normals walked naturally, as they had all their lives. The psi's were awkward, unaccustomed to long stretches on foot. With relief they soared into their natural element, the air. People landed and took off, and the air was filled with teleported objects. Looking back, Ecks saw a welldressed man drop out of the air and stop one of the walking psi's. He talked to him for a moment, then moved on. A health-agent! Ecks knew he had been traced. He twisted around a corner and started to run. The street lights became fewer as Ecks moved on, pushing his aching legs. He tried to levitate, but couldn't get off the ground. In panic he tried to telep his friends. Useless. His telepathic sense had no power. The shock broke over him like an ocean wave, and he stumbled against a lamp post and hung on. The full realization came. In a world where men flew, he was landbound. In a world of telepathic contact, he was reduced to clumsy words at face-to-face distance. In a world where artificial light was unnecessary, he could see only when his eyes were stimulated. Crippled. Blind, deaf and dumb. He walked on, into narrower streets, dingy, damp alleys. His numbed mind started working again. He had one advantage. His blunted mind could no longer broadcast a strong identity-pattern. That would make him more difficult to find. What he needed, he decided, was a sanctuary. Some place where he wouldn't infect anyone, and where the health officers couldn't find him. Perhaps he could find a Normal boarding house. He could stay there and study, find out what was wrong with him ; treat himself. And he wouldn't be alone. Normals were better than no people at all. He came to the end of an alley, where the streets branched off. Automatically he pushed out his location sense, to find out what was ahead. Useless. It was paralyzed, as dead as the rest of him. But the righthand turn seemed the safest. He started for it. "Don't!" Ecks whirled, alarmed at the spoken word. A girl had come out of a doorway. She ran to him. "They're waiting for you in there. Don't go!" "Who's waiting for me?" Ecks asked, his heart pounding like a triphammer. "The health officers. They figured you'd take the right turn. Something about your right-hand tropism, I couldn't hear it all. Take the street on your left." Ecks looked at her closely. At first he thought she was about fifteen years old, but he revised his estimate to twenty. She was small, slender with large dark eyes in a bony face. "Why are you helping me?" he asked. "My uncle told me to," the girl said. "Hurry!"  There was no time to argue. Ecks walked in the alley, following the girl. She ran ahead, and Ecks had trouble keeping up with her. She was a Normal, to judge by her sure stride. But how had she overheard the health-officer's conversation? Almost certainly they had teleped on a tight beam. Her uncle, perhaps? The alley opened into a courtyard. Ecks raced in, and stopped. From the tops of the buildings men floated down. They dropped quickly, surrounding him. The health officers! He looked around, but the girl had darted back into the alley. The way was blocked for him. He backed against a building, wondering how he could have been so stupid. Of course! This was how they liked to take people. Quietly, so no one else would become infected. That damned girl! He tightened his aching legs, to run for it... Marrin thought. "Take his arms and legs." Hovering fifty feet in the air, he supervised the operation. Without pity he watched. The agents moved in cautiously. They didn't want to use the force of their minds against him if they could help it. After all, the man was a cripple. They had almost reached him, when -- Ecks started to fade. Marrin dropped closer, unable to believe his eyes. Ecks was dissolving into the wall, becoming a part of it, disappearing. Then he was gone. "Look for a door!" Marrin teleped. "Examine the pavement!" While his agents were looking, Marrin considered what he had seen. After the initial surprise, he didn't doubt it. The search for a door was an excuse for his agents. If they thought the man had disappeared through a hidden door, good. It wouldn't help their confidence -- their sanity -- to believe what had actually happened. The cripple, Ecks, merging with the wall. Marrin ordered a search of the building. But there wasn't a trace of Ecks' thought pattern. He was gone, as though he had never been. But how, Marrin asked himself. Did someone help him? Who? Who would help a carrier? when he returned to consciousness was the cracked, stained plaster wall in front of him. He stared at it for a long time, watching dust motes floating in the sunlight, across the bed's torn brown blanket. The bed ! Ecks sat up and looked around. He was in a dingy little room. Long cracks ran across the ceiling. Aside from the bed, the only other piece of furniture was a plain wooden chair, set near the half-open door. But what was he doing here? He remembered the events of last night; it must have been last night, he decided. The blank wall, the health officers. He must have been rescued. But how? "How do you feel?" A girl's voice asked from the door. Ecks turned, and recognized the pale, sensitive face. It was the girl who had warned him last night. "I feel all right," Ecks said. "How did I get here?" "My uncle brought you," the girl said, coming into the room. "You must be hungry." "Not especially," Ecks said. "You should eat," she told him. "My uncle tells me that dematerialization is quite a strain on the nervous system. That's how he rescued you from the psi's, you know." She paused. "I can give you some very nice broth." "He dematerialized me?" Ecks asked. "He can do things like that," the girl said serenely. "The power came to him afterwards." She walked over and opened the window. "Shall I get the broth?" Ecks frowned at her. The situation was becoming unreal, at a time when he needed his fullest grasp on reality. This girl seemed to consider it perfectly normal to have an uncle with the power of dematerialization -- although psi science had never discovered it. "Shall I get the broth?" she asked again. "No," Ecks said. He wondered what the repeated emphasis on food might mean. There was nothing in the girl's face to tell him. She was handsome enough, even in a cheap, unbecoming dress. She had unusually dark eyes, and an unusually calm expression. Or lack of expression, really. He filed his suspicions for the moment, and asked, "Is your uncle a psi?" "No," the girl said. "My uncle doesn't hold with psi powers. His strength is spiritual." "I see," Ecks said, and he thought he had the answer. Throughout history, people had preferred to believe that their natural psi gifts were the product of demon intervention. Strange powers were the devil's gift until psi regularized and formularized them. And even in this day there were gullible Normals, people who preferred to believe that their occasional flashes of supernormal power were spirit-guided. Evidently the uncle fell into this category. "Has your uncle been able to do this sort of thing long?" Ecks asked. "Only for about five years," she said. "Only since he died." "Perfectly correct," a voice said. Ecks looked around quickly. The voice seemed to come from behind his shoulder. "Don't look for me," the voice said. "All that there is of me in this room is a voice. I am the spirit of Cari's Uncle John." Ecks had a quick moment of panic before he realized the trick. It was a teleped voice, of course; cleverly focused and masked to give the effect of speech. A teleped voice meant only one thing; this was a psi passing himself off as a spirit. "Mr. Ecks," the voice said, cleverly simulating the effects of spoken words, "I have rescued you by the intervention of my powers. You are a crippled psi, a carrier. Capture and isolation are, I believe, distasteful to you. Is that not true?" "Perfectly," Ecks said. He probed with his blunted senses for the source of the voice. The imitation was perfect; not a single image leaked, to show the telepathic-human source. "You feel, perhaps, a certain gratitude toward me?" the voice asked. Ecks looked at the girl. Her face was still expressionless. "Of course I do," he said. "I know your desires," Uncle John told him. "You wish sanctuary for a sufficient time to restore your powers. And you shall have it, Edward Ecks. You shall have it." "I'm very grateful," Ecks said. His mind was working quickly, trying to decide upon a course of action. Was he expected to keep up the pretense of believing in this spirit? Surely the  teleping psi knew that no university-trained person was going to accept something like that. On the other hand, he might be dealing with a neurotic, playing spirit for his own reasons. He decided to play along. After all, he wasn't interested in the man's pretensions. What mattered was the sanctuary. "You would not, I am certain, object to doing me a small favor," Uncle John said. "What do you want me to do?" Ecks asked, immediately on his guard. "I sense your thought," the voice said. "You think there may be danger involved. I assure you, such is not the case. Although I am not omnipotent, I have certain powers unknown to you -- or to psi science. Accept that fact. Surely your rescue proves it. And accept that I have your best interests at heart." "When do I find out about this errand?" Ecks asked. "When the time is right. For now, goodbye, Edward Ecks." The voice was gone. Ecks sat down in the chair. He had had two possible explanations before; that the "uncle" was a psychotic, or a psi. Now he had another. What if the uncle was a mutant psi? The next evolution in the procession. What then? Cari left and returned with a bowl of soup. "What was your uncle like?" Ecks asked the girl. "What sort of man was he -- when he was alive?" "Oh, he was a very nice man," she said, holding the steaming soup carefully. "He was a shoemaker. He raised me when my father died." "Did he ever show any signs of psi power? Or supernatural power?" "No," Cari said. "He led a quiet life. It was only after he died -- " Ecks looked at the girl with pity. She was the saddest part of the whole thing. The psi had undoubtedly read her mind, found the dead uncle -- and the gullibility. And used her as his pawn. A cruel game. "Please eat the soup," she said. He reached for it automatically, glancing at her face. Then he pulled back his hand. "You eat it," he said. The first tinge of color came into her cheeks. With an apology, she started on eagerness. ly, and Marrin let out a foot of mainsail to steady it. His wife, seated on the bow, waved to him, enjoying the plunging motion. Below, he could see a bank of thunderheads, a storm in the making... "Let's have our picnic on those clouds over there," Myra said, pointing to a wispy cirrus formation, bright and sunny above the thunderheads. Marrin changed course. Myra lay back on the bow, her feet propped against the mast. Marrin was holding the entire weight of the boat himself, but he scarcely noticed it. The light rig weighed less than two hundred pounds, sail and all. His and Myra's combined weight added about two hundred and sixty pounds more, but Marrin's tested levitation capacity was over two tons. And the wind did most of the work. All the operator of the boat did was to supply enough power to keep it in the air. The wind drove it, a twisting white feather. Marrin couldn't get his mind off the carrier. How in hell had Ecks disappeared? Dematerialization -- impossible! And yet there it was. Ecks, into the wall. And gone, without a thought-trace. "Stop thinking," Myra said. "Your doctor told you not to think about anything but me today." He knew that his thoughts hadn't leaked; nor had his face changed. But Myra was sensitive to his moods. He didn't have to grimace for her to know he was happy, or cry to demonstrate sadness. Marrin brought the light, flat boat to a stop in the clouds, and. heading into the wind, dropped the sail. They spread their picnic on the bow of the boat. Marrin did most of the leviating, although Myra was trying... gallantly. As she had been trying for seven years, since her partial infection by a carrier. Although her psi faculties never left her completely, they were spasmodic. Another reason for hunting down Ecks. The sandwiches Myra made were very like herself; small and decorative. And tasty, Marrin thought, teleping the thought. "Beast," Myra said out loud. The warm sun beat down on them, and Marrin felt wonderfully lazy. The two of them stretched out on the deck of the boat, Marrin holding it up by reflex. He was more relaxed than he had been in weeks. "Marrin! I ' Marrin started, awakened out of near-sleep by the teleped voice. "Look, I'm awfully sorry, boy." It was Krandall, embarrassed and apologetic. "I hate breaking in on your day, but I've got a lead, and a pretty damned good one. Evidently someone doesn't like our carrier. I've just been told where he'll be in about four hours. Of course, it may be a crank, but I knew you'd want to know -- " "I'm coming," Marrin said. "We can't afford to pass up anything." He broke contact and turned to his wife. "I'm terribly sorry, dear." She smiled, and her eyes were clear with understanding. She hadn't been included in Krandall's tight-beam message, but she knew what it meant. "Can you take it down yourself?" Marrin asked. "Of course. Good hunting." Marrin kissed her and jumped off the boat. He watched for a few seconds, to see that she had it under control; then he teleped the rental service. "My wife's bringing it in," he told them. "I wish you'd keep an eye on her." They promised. Now, even if she went out of control there'd be no danger. Marrin hurled himself down. He was so busy calculating the rate of disease increase that he barely saw the dagger in time. It flashed past him, then turned, twenty feet away, and came again. Marrin reached out for it mentally, but the telekineticized knife broke free. He barely deflected it, grappled, and had it in his hand. Quickly he tried to trace the wielder, but he was gone without a trace. Not quite without a trace. Marrin was able to catch the tail end of an identity thought, the hardest kind to control. He puzzled over it, trying to place the image. Then he had it. Ecks! Ecks, the cripple. Blind Ecks, the carrier, who vanished into walls. And who, evidently, could polter a dagger. Or had someone do if for him. Grimly, with the growing awareness that it was turning into a personal affair, Marrin levitated into the Psi-Health Offices. Ecks lay on the tattered brown blanket. His eyes were lightly closed, his body passive. Little muscles in his legs jumped. He willed them to relax. "Relaxation is one of the keys to psi power. Complete relaxation calls forth confidence; fears disappear, tensions evaporate. Relaxation is vital to psi." Ecks told himself this, breathing deeply. Don't think about the disease. There is no disease. There is only rest, and relaxation. The leg muscles slackened. Ecks concentrated on his heart, ordering it to pump more easily. He sent orders to his lungs, to breathe deeply and slowly. Uncle John? He hadn't heard from him for almost two days now. But he mustn't think of him. Not now. An unexplained factor, Uncle John would be resolved in time. The awareness of deception, Ecks told himself, is the first step in finding out what the deception is. And what about the pale, hungry, attractive niece? Don't think about her, either. The unsettling memories sponged away as his breathing deepened. Next, the eyes. It was hard to relax the eyes. After-images danced across his retina. Sunlight. Darkness, a building, a disappearance. No. Don't think. "My eyes are so heavy," he told himself. "My eyes are made of lead. They want to sink -- to sink -- " Then his eye-muscles relaxed. His thoughts seemed calm, but just under the surface was a crazy welter of images and impressions. A cripple, through dim streets. A ghost that wasn't. A hungry niece. Hungry for what? A turmoil of sense-impressions, flashes of red and purple, memories of classes in Mycrowsky University, tele-wrestling at the Palladium, a date at Skytop. All had to be smoothed down. "Relaxation is the first step toward reintegration." Ecks told himself that everything was blue. All thoughts were swallowed in a vast blue abyss. Slowly, he succeeded in calming his mind. A deep peace started to seep into him, slowly, soothingly -- " Edward Ecks." "Yes?" Ecks opened his eyes at once; the relaxation had been that superficial. He looked around and realized that it was the uncle's voice. "Take this." A small sphere darted into the room, and came to rest in front of Ecks. He picked it up and examined it. The sphere seemed to be made of some shiny, solid plastic. "What is it?" he asked. "You will place this sphere inside the Cordeer Building," the voice of Uncle John told him, ignoring the question. "Leave it on a desk, behind a door, in an ashtray, anywhere. Then return directly here." "What will the sphere do?" Ecks asked. "That is not your concern," the voice told him. "The sphere is the apex of a psychic triangle of forces which you do not understand. Suffice it to say that it will harm no one and will greatly aid me." "Every officer in the city is looking for me," Ecks said. "I'll be picked up if I go back to the main part of the city." "You have forgotten my powers, Ecks. You will be safe, if you keep to the route I map out for you." Ecks hesitated. He wanted to know more about the uncle, and his game. Above all, why was he masquerading as a spirit? Or was he? After all, what would a spirit have to do with Earth? The classic yarns of demons seeking temporal power were just so much muggy anthropomorphizing. "Will I be left alone after I get back?" Ecks wanted to know. "You have my word. Do this to my satisfaction and you will receive all the sanctuary you need. Now go. Cari has the route drawn up for you. She is waiting at the door." The voice was gone. Even with his blunted senses, Ecks could feel the withdrawn contact. With the sphere in his hand, he walked to the door. Cari was waiting. "Here are the instructions," she said. Ecks looked at her sharply. He wished he had some psi-abilities left. He would have given a good deal to know what was going on behind that quiet, pretty face. Psi's never bothered to read faces; the affective aura surrounding every individual was a far better indicator. If one had normal psi-sensitivity to read it. "Have you eaten?" he asked. "Oh, yes," she said, following him outside. The sunlight was momentarily blinding, after two days in the little room. Ecks blinked and looked around automatically. There was no one in sight. They walked in silence for a while, following Uncle John's instructions. Ecks glanced right and left, pitifully aware of his vulnerability, on the lookout for detection. The instructions laid out a devious, meaningless pattern for Ecks to walk; doubling back on streets, circling others. They approached West Broadway, moving out of the slums into psi territory. "Has your uncle ever told you what he wishes to do?" Ecks asked. "No," Cari said. They walked in silence for a while longer. Ecks tried not to look at the sky, out of which he expected the psi officers to fall, like avenging angels. "Sometimes I'm afraid of Uncle John," Cari volunteered, after a few moments. "He's so strange, sometimes." Ecks nodded absently. Then he thought about the girl's position. Actually, she was worse off than he was. He knew the score. She was being used for some unknown purpose. She might well be in danger, although he didn't know why that should concern him. "Look," he said, "if anything happens, do you know the Angler's Bar on Sixth and Bleeker?" "No, but I could find it." "Meet me there, if anything goes wrong." "All right," she said. "Thank you." Ecks smiled wryly. How idiotic of him to offer her protection! When he couldn't even protect himself. At least, he told himself, it was an understandable urge. Even if he didn't quite understand it himself. They walked several more blocks. Then the girl looked at Ecks nervously. "There's one thing I don't understand," she said. "What's that?" "Well," she began, "I sometimes can see things that are going to be. I never know when, but just sometimes I have a picture of something. Then in a little while it happens." "That's interesting," Ecks said. "You're probably an undeveloped clairvoyant. You should go to Mycrowski University. They're always looking for people like you." "So far, everything I've seen has turned out right," she said. "That's a nice record," Ecks told her. He wondered what the girl was driving at. Did she want praise? She couldn't be naive enough to believe that she was the only person in the world with latent clairvoyance. "So far my uncle has been right in everything he's said, too," she told him. "Very commendable," Ecks said acidly. He was in no mood for a family pangyric. They were approaching Fourteenth Street, and the air was thick with psi's. A few people were walking -- but very few. The Cordeer Building was three blocks ahead. "What I'm wondering is," she said, "if I see something happening one way, and my uncle sees it happening the other way, which of us will be right?" "What do you mean?" Ecks said, taking her arm as they crossed a street filled with jagged rocks. "My uncle said you'd be safe," she said, "and I just don't understand." "What?" He stopped. "I think they're going to try to capture you." "When?" "Now," she said. Ecks stared at her, then stiffened. He didn't need psi power to know that the trap was sprung. The health men weren't being gentle this time. Telekinetic force jerked him off his feet. He looked for Cari, but the girl was gone. Then his head was forced painfully down, his hands and feet seized. Physically, not a hand had toughed him yet. Ecks fought wildly, in blind panic. Capture seemed to touch off some ultimate instability in his personality. He tried desperately to snap the telekinetic bonds. He almost did. Power came. He freed an arm and managed to throw himself into the air. Frantically he tried for height. He was smashed to the pavement. Again he tried, a supreme effort -- And passed out. His last conscious thought was a realization that he had been tricked. The uncle -- he determined to kill him, if the opportunity ever presented itself. And then there was blackness. was called at once. Marrin, in Psi headquarters in New York, opened the special channel. Chiefs in Rio, London, Paris, Canton, came into emergency circuit. Marrin's tightly organized information was flashed around the world in less than a minute. At once he received a question. "I would like to know," the Health Chief from Barcelona asked, "how this Ecks person escaped you twice." The thought carried its inevitable identity pattern. The Barcelona chief's face was dimly apparent; long, sad, moustached. Not his true face, of course. Identity patterns were always idealized in the manner the particular mind viewed itself. Actually, the Barcelonan might be short, fat and clean shaven. "The second escape was in broad daylight, was it not?" the Berlin chief asked, and the other chiefs glimpsed his broad, powerful, idealized face. "It was," Marrin replied. "I cannot explain it." Marrin was seated at his black desk in Psi-Health. Around him hummed the normal activity of the day. He was unaware of it. "Here is the complete sequence." It took longer to telep the sceneby-scene breakdown of the attempted rescue. After the attack by the poltered dagger, Marrin had assembled his men around the point where Krandall's informant said Ecks would appear. "This informant. Who -- " "Later. Let him complete the sequence." Fifty agents covered the area. Ecks appeared on time, and in the indicated place. He was restrained with little difficulty, at first. Fighting, he showed a slight surge of latent strength; then he collapsed. At that moment his energy potential took an explosive, exponential jump. Ecks vanished. With Marrin's permission, his recollection of the moment was broken down and scrutinized more closely. The picture remained clear. One moment Ecks was there, the next, he was gone. The images were slowed to one a half second. In this running there was a blur of energy around Ecks just before he vanished. The energy was on so high a band that it was almost indetectable. There was no known explanation for it. The impressions of the participating agents, as recorded by Marrin, were combed, with no positive result. "Would the Health'Chief from New York care to give his theories?" "Since Ecks is a cripple," Marrin said, "I can only assume that someone is helping him." "There is another possibility," the Warsaw Chief said. His idealized identity came through with the thought ; slim, whitehaired, gay. "Ecks may have stumbled on some undiscovered form of psi power." "That would appear to be beyond the realm of probability," the sad-eyed Barcelonan teleped. "Not at all. Consider the emergence of the original psi faculties. They began as wild talents. Couldn't the next mutation begin in a wild talent stage?" "There are tremendous implications in that," the London Chief said. "But if so, why hasn't Ecks utilized it to greater advantage?" "He is probably unaware of it. But he has an inherent protection system, perhaps, which shunts him out of danger at stress moments." "I don't know," Marrin said dubiously. "It is a possibility, of course. We are well aware that there are many untouched secrets of the mind. Still... "An argument against your theory," the Warsaw Chief broke in, teleping directly to Marrin, "is the fact that anyone helping Ecks would necessarily have this extrapsi power. They would have to, to affect an almost instantaneous disappearance. If they did have it, wouldn't they have more of a plan -- less randomness -- " "Or seeming randomness," the Londoner said. "It could be a test of strength. By dangling Ecks in front of Marrin, such a group could determine a good deal about his capabilities and, by extrapolation, the capabilities of all psi's. The repeated inability to capture Ecks would be meaningful. "It's a possibility," Marrin said cautiously. Academically, he found the discussion interesting. But it didn't seem to be serving any practical good. "What about Krandall's informant?" the Barcelonan teleped. "Has he been questioned?" "He has never been found," Marrin said. "The sender was able to block all identity-thoughts and he left no trace to follow." "What do you plan to do?" "First," Marrin said, "to alert you. That is the purpose of the meeting, since the carrier might well get out of New York. Also, the disease rate here has passed the minimum epidemic level. It can be expected to spread, even though I'm closing the city." He paused and wiped his forehead. "Second, I'm going to trace Ecks myself, working on a new set of probability locations supplied by Krandall. Working alone, I'll be able to avoid all thought haze and deflection. It's just possible one may do what many cannot." them for half an hour longer, then broke contact. He sat for a few moments, moodily sorting papers. Then he shrugged off his mood of despair and went to see Krandall. Krandall was in his office at the tomb of The Sleeper. He grunted hello when Marrin levitated in and motioned him to a chair. "I'd like to see those probability locations," Marrin said. "Right," Krandall said. The endproduct was quite simple: a list of streets and times. But to get that information, Krandall had correlated the total amount of data available. The locations of Ecks' disappearances, his reappearances, his psychological index, plus the added correlates of suitable hiding spots in the city where a cripple could stay undetected. ! "I think you stand a pretty good chance of finding him," Krandall said. "Of course, holding him is somediing else again." "I know," Marrin said. "I've come to a decision about that." He looked away from Krandall. "I'm going to have to kill Ecks." "I know," Krandall said. "What?" "You can't risk having him loose any more. Your infection rate is still rising." "That's right. The policy of the Health Board is to quarantine diseased persons. But this is a matter of public safety." "You don't have to justify it to me," Krandall said. v "What do you mean?" Marrin got halfway to his feet, then sat down again and shook his head. "You're right. Evidently Ecks can't be captured. We'll see if he can be killed." "Good hunting," Krandall said. "I hope you have better luck on your project." "The Sleeper?" "The latest attempt flopped. Not a stir out of him." Marrin frowned. That was bad news. If they ever needed Mycrowski's intellect, it was now. Mycrowski was the man to resolve these events into a related whole." "Would you like to see him?" Krandall asked. Marrin glanced at the probability list and saw that the first timestreet fix was almost an hour off. He nodded, and followed Krandall. They went down a dim corridor to an elevator, and then through another corridor. "You haven't ever been here, have you?" Krandall asked, at the end of the corridor. "No. But I helped draw up plans for the remodeling ten years ago." Krandall unlocked and opened the last door. In the brightly lighted room The Sleeper rested. Tubes ran into his arms, carrying the nutrient solutions that kept him alive. The bed he lay on slowly massaged The Sleeper's flabby muscles. The Sleeper's face was blank and expressionless, as it had been for thirty years. The face of a dead man, still living. "That's enough," Marrin said. "I'm depressed enough." They went back upstairs. "Those streets I gave you are in the slums," Krandall said. "Watch your step. Asociality is still present in such places." "I'm feeling pretty' asocial myself," Marrin said, and left. He levitated to the fringe of the slums, and dropped to the street. His sensitive, trained mind was keyed for stimulation. He walked, sorting impressions as he went, searching for the dull, almost obliterated throb of the carrier's mind. Marrin' s web extended for blocks, sifting, feeling, sorting. If Ecks was alive and conscious he would find him. And kill him. You imbecile!" The disembodied voice roared at Ecks. Blurrily, Ecks realized that he was back in Cari's house, in the slums. "I gave you a course to follow," Uncle John screamed, his voice bouncing against the walls. "You took the wrong turn!" "I did not," Ecks said, getting to his feet. He wondered vaguely how long he had been unconscious. "Don't contradict me! You did. And you must do it again!" "Just a minute," Ecks said evenly. "I don't know what your game is, but I followed your instructions to the letter. I turned down every street you wrote down." "You didn't!" "Stop this farce!" Ecks shouted back. "Who in hell are you?" "Get out!" Uncle John roared. "Get out -- or I'll kill you." "Be reasonable," Ecks said. "Just tell me what you want. Tell me what I'm supposed to do. Explain it. I don't work well in a mystery." "Get out," the voice said ominously. "I can't," Ecks said in despair. "Why don't you drop this spirit pose and tell me what it is you want? I'm a normal person. Health officers are everywhere. They will kill me too. I must first regain my abilities. But I can't -- " "Are you going?" the voice asked. Ecks didn't answer. Invisible hands were at Ecks' throat. He jerked back. The grip tightened. Force battered him against the wall, chopping down at him. Ecks rolled, trying to escape the merciless beating. The air was alive with energy, hurling itself at him, crushing him, smothering him. in energy output at once. He traced it, got a fix and levitated toward the location, sifting through the energy manifestations for some identity pattern. Ecks! Marrin crashed through a flimsy wooden door, and stopped. He saw Ecks' crumpled body. Berserk force was alive in the room, undirected now. Suddenly, Marrin found himself fighting for his life. Shielding, he smashed against the telekinetic power that surged around him. A chair was swept up and thrown at him. He deflected it, and was struck from behind by a pitcher. A bed tried to crush him against the wall. Avoiding it, he was struck in the back by a poltered table. A lamp shattered on the wall above his head, spraying him with fragments. A broom caught him behind the knees. Marrin shielded and located the psi power source. In the basement of the building. He sent a tremendous wave rippling across it, poltering chairs and tables with it. The attack stopped abruptly. The place was a shambles of broken furniture. Marrin looked around. Ecks was gone again. He searched for his identity pattern, but couldn't locate it. The man in the cellar? Also gone. But a trace was left behind! Marrin went through a window, following the trace thought. Trained for this work, he held contact with the attenuated, stifled thought as its owner shot into the city. He followed it through a twisting maze of buildings, and out into open air. One part of his mind was still able to prob for Ecks. No luck. But he had Ecks' accomplice, if he could hold him. He shortened the distance by fractions. Ecks' helper -- and attacker -- shot out of the city, heading West. Marrin followed. said, trying hard to catch his breath. It had been a long run. Luckily, the bartender was a Normal, and a phlegmatic one at that. He moved stolidly to the tap. Ecks saw Cari at the end of the bar, leaning against the wall. Thank God she had remembered. He paid for his beer and carried it to where she was. "What happened?" she asked, looking at his bruised face. "Your nice uncle tried to kill me," Ecks said wryly. "A healthofficer came bursting in, and I let them fight it out." Ecks had slipped out the door during the fight. He had counted on the insensitivity of his thought pattern to conceal him. Crippled, he was hardly able to broadcast an identity thought. For once, the loss of telepathic power was an asset. Cari shook her head sadly. "I just don't understand it," she said. "You may not believe this, but Uncle John was always a good man. He was the most harmless person I ever knew. I just don't understand -- " "Simple," Ecks said. "Try to understand this. That was not Uncle John. Some highly developed psi has been masquerading as him." "But why?" she asked. "I don't know," Ecks said. "He saves me, tries to get me captured again, then tries to kill me. It doesn't make sense." "What now?" she asked. Ecks finished his beer. "Now, the end," he said. "Isn't there some place we can go?" she asked. "Some place we can hide?" "I don't know of any," Ecks said. "You'd better go on your own. I'm a risky person to be with." "I'd rather not," Can said. "Why not?" Ecks wanted to know. She looked away. "I'd just rather not." Even without telepathy, Ecks had an intimation of what she meant. Mentally, he cursed. He didn't like the idea of having the responsibility of her. Psi Health must be getting desperate. They wouldn't pull any punches this time, and she might get hurt. "Go away," he said firmly. "No!" "Well, come on," he said. "We'll just have to get by as well as we can. The only thing I can think of is getting out of the city. I should have done that at first, instead of playing spirit." Now it was undoubtedly too late. The psi officers would be checking everyone on foot. "Can you use that clairvoyance of yours?" he asked. "Is there anything you can see?" "No," she said sadly. "The future's a blank to me." That was how Ecks saw it, too. greater inherentstrength than the man he was pursuing. He detected the signs of weakening and pushed harder. The fugitive was visible now, a mile ahead of him doubling back toward the city. As he got closer, Marrin threw his telekinetic strength, pulling the man down. He clung doggedly. The man was slowing, fighting spasmodically. Marrin overhauled him, brought him down and pinned him to the ground. Coming down himself, he probed for an identity thought. And found one. Krandall! For a moment all he could do was stare. "Did you get Ecks?" Krandall teleped. The exertion had drained the big man of everything. He lay, face down fighting for breath. "No. You were his backer all along. Is that right?" Krandall's thought was affirmative. "How could you! What were you thinking of? You know what the disease means!" "I'll explain later," Krandall panted. "Now!" "No time. You have to find Ecks." "I know that," Marrin said. "But why did you help him?" "I didn't," the fat man said "Not really. I tried to kill him You must kill him." He draggec himself to his feet. "He's a far greater menace than you think. Believe me, Marrin. Ecks must b killed!" "Why did you rescue him?" Marrin asked. "In order to put him back into danger," Krandall gasped. "I couldn't let you capture and isolate him. He must be killed." "Go on," Marrin said. "Not now," Krandall said. "I poltered the dagger at you, to make you consider Ecks a personal menace. I had to goad you to the point where you would kill him." " What is he?" "Not now! Get him!" "Another thing," Marrin said. "You couldn't handle that amount of telekinetic power. Who was doing it?" . "The girl," Krandall said, swaying on his feet. "The girl Cari. I was posing as her uncle's spirit She's in back of it all. You must kill her, too." He wiped his streaming face. "I'm sorry I had to play it this way, Paul. You'll hear the whole story at the right time. Just take my word for it now." Krandall tightened his hands into fists and shook them at Marrin. "You must kill those two! Before they kill everything you stand for!" The teleped thought had the ring of truth. Marrin took to the air again, contacting his agents. Briefly he gave his instructions. "Kill both of them," he said. "And pick up Krandall and hold him." random, hoping the lack of a plan would confuse the psi's. Every shadow seemed to have a meaning of its own. He waited for the mental bolt that would drop him. Why had the uncle tried to kill him? Impossible to answer. Why was he so seemingly important? Another unanswerable question. And the girl? Ecks watched her out of the comer of his eye. Cari walked silently beside him. Her face had some color now, and some animation. She seemed almost gay; perhaps freedom from the uncle was the reason for that. What other reason could there be? Because she was with him? The air was thick with the usual day's traffic. A load of ore was being brought in, tons of it, expertly shepherded by a dozen workers. Other cargoes were being flown in from Southern ports; fruit and vegetables from Brazil, meat from Argentina. And psi officers. Ecks wasn't especially surprised. The city was being watched too thoroughly for a fly to escape, much less a crippled man. The psi officers dropped down, forming a tight mental linkage. "All right," Ecks called. "The hell with it, I give up." He decided that it was time he bowed to the inevitable. He had the girl to consider also. The psi's were probably tired of playing; this time, if he tried to escape, they might play for keeps. A bolt of energy sheered him off his feet. "I said I give up!" he shouted. Beside him, Cari fell also. Energy swept over them, twi sting them, across the courtyard, increasing, building. "Stop it!" Ecks shouted. "You'll hurt -- " He had time -- an infinitesimal fraction of a second -- to realize fully his own feeling about the girl. He couldn't let anything happen to her. Ecks didn't have time to consider how or why; the feeling was there. A sad, bitter sensation of love. Ecks tried to get to his feet. The linked mental energy smashed llim down again. Stones and rocks were poltcred at him. Ecks realized that he wasn't going to be allowed to surrender. They were going to kill him. And Cari. At first, it seemed as though it were a dream. He had become used to the possiblity of death in the last few days. He tried to shield, aware of his nakedness, tried to cover Cari. She doubled up as a poltered rock caught her in the stomach. Rocks hummed around them. Seeing Cari struck, Ecks could have burst with rage. He struggled to his feet and swayed two steps forward, hands outstretched. He was knocked down again. A section of wall started to collapse, pushed by psi force. He tried to drag Cari out of the way. Too late. The wall fell -- In that moment Ecks bridged the gap. His tortured, overstrained mind performed the energy leap into the new potential. In that instant, contact and comprehension flooded his mind. The wall thundered down. But Ecks and Cari weren't under it. "M arrin!" Dully, the psi chief raised his head. He was back at his desk in Psi-Health. Again it had happened. "M arrin!" "Who is it?" the psi thief asked. "Ecks." Nothing could surprise him now. That Ecks was capable of tightbeam telepathy just didn't matter. "What do you want?" he asked. "I want to meet you. Name a place." "Wherever you wish," Marrin said, with the calmness of despair. Then curiosity overcame him. "How are you able to telep?" "All psi's can telep," Ecks said mockingly. "Where did you go?" Marrin asked. He tried to get a location on the message. But Ecks was easily managing the tight beam, allowing only the direct message to go through. "I want a little quiet," Ecks said. "So I'm in the tomb of The Sleeper. Would you care to meet me there?" "Coming," Marrin said, and broke contact. "Leffert," he said aloud. "Yes, Chief?" his assistant said, coming over. "I want you to take over until I get back. If I get back." "What is Ecks?" Leffert asked. "I don't know," Marrin said. "I don't know what powers he has. I don't know why Krandall wanted to kill him, but I concur in the judgement." "Could we bomb the tomb?" Leffert asked. "There's nothing faster than thought," Marrin answered. "Ecks has discovered some form of nearinstantaneous transportation. He could be away before the bombs were dropped." He paused. "There is a way, but I'm not going to say any more. He might be listening in on this conversation." "Impossible!" Leffert said. "This is direct-talk. He couldn't -- " "He couldn't escape," Marrin reminded him wearily. "We're through underestimating Mr. Ecks. Hereafter, consider him capable of anything." "Right," Leffcrt said dubiously. "Have you got the latest figures on the contagion rate?" Marrin asked, walking to the window. "They're way past epidemic. And the disease has jumped as far as the Rockies." "It can't be checked now," Marrin said. "We've been pushed off the cliff -- on the wrong side. In a year we'll he lucky if there are a thousand psi's left in the world." He tightened his hands into fists. "For that alone I could cut Ecks into little pieces." He levitated out the window. when he entered The Sleeper's chamber was Mycrowski himself, still unconscious. Ecks and the girl were standing beside him. Marrin walked forward. "I'd like you to meet Cari," Ecks said, smiling. Marrin ignored the dazed-looking girl. "I'd like an explanation," he said. "Of course," Ecks said. "Would you like to know what I am, to begin with?" "Yes," Marrin said. "I am the stage after psi. The para-psi." "I see. And this came -- " "When you tried to kill Cari." "We'd better start somewhere else," Marrin said. He decided to hear the explanation first before taking the final step. "Why have you removed the nutrient pipes from The Sleeper?" "Because Mycrowski won't need them any more," Ecks said. He turned to The Sleeper, and the room suddenly hummed with energy. " Good work, Ecks." For a moment Marrin thought it was the girl who had teleped. Then he realized that it was Mycrowski! "He won't be fully conscious for a while," Ecks said. "Let me start at the beginning. As you know, thirty years ago Mycrowski was searching for the extra-psi powers. He split mind and body to find them. Then, having the knowledge, he was unable to get back in his body. It required a leap into a higher energy level to do that and, without a nervous system at his command, he couldn't gather that power. No ordinary psi could help him, either. To attain the new level, all normal channels must be blocked and redirected, and a terrific strain is placed on the whole nervous system. "That is, essentially, the same method by which the first true psi's got their power." Marrin looked puzzled for a moment, then asked, "Then you're not a mutation?" "Mutations have nothing to do with this. Let me go on. Mycrowski couldn't bridge the gap unaided. He had to have a para-psi bridge the gap for him. That's where I come in." "It is also where you come in," Mycrowski, conscious now, teleped to Marrin. "And the girl, and Krandall. I was in telepathic contact with Krandall. Together we chose Ecks for the experiment. It couldn't be Krandall himself, because his nervous system was not suitable. Ecks was picked for his temperament and sensitivity. And, I might add, for his selfishness and suggestibility. Everything was predicted, including Cari's role." Marrin listened coldly. Let them explain. He had an answer of his own. A final one. "First, the rechanneling. Ecks' psi senses were blocked. Then he was put in a position of stress; incipient capture and isolation, both repugnent to his nature. When he failed to bridge the gap, Krandall rescued him, with my help. With Krandall posing as Cari's Uncle John we threatened his life, increasing the stress." "So that's what Krandall meant," Marrin said. "Yes. Krandall told you that you had to kill Ecks. That was true. You had to try. He told you that the girl was the key to the whole thing. And that was true also. Because when Ecks' life and the girl's were threatened, it was the greatest stress we could bring to bear. He bridged the gap to the higher potential. Comprehension followed immediately." "And he gave you back your body," Marrin added. "And he gave me back my body," Mycrowski agreed. Marrin knew what he had to do, and he thanked God for the foresight of Psi-Health. Nevertheless, he delayed for a moment. "Then if I understand correctly, all this -- the infection of Ecks, his miraculous rescues, all the deviousness you used, was designed to create a force great enough to get you back in your body?" "That's a part of it," Mycrowski said. "Another part is the creation, in Ecks, of another para-psi." "Very well," Marrin said. "It will interest you to know that Psi Health has always considered, as one possibility, the return of The Sleeper -- insane. Against that eventuality, this room is wired for atomic explosion. All four walls, ceiling and roof are keyed to me. Atomic explosions are not instantaneous, I realize." He smiled humorlessly. "But then, I doubt if parapsi transit is, either. "My thought-process are as fast as yours. I am going to explode this place." "You health men are a suspicious lot," Mycrowski said. "But why on earth would you want to do a thing like that?" Marrin noticed that he seemed genuinely surprised. "Why? Do you realize what you have done? You have regained your body. But the disease is uncontrollable now. Psi science and all it stands for is destroyed, because of your selfishness." Mentally, Marrin reached for the key. "Wait!" Ecks said. "Evidently you don't understand. There'll be a temporary disturbance, true. But it won't affect everyone at once. Diseased persons can be trained." "Trained? To what?" "Para-psi, of course," Ecks said. "A complete rechanneling is necessary to reach the next para-psychological step. The disease is the initial point. The present level of psi is unstable, anyhow. If I didn't set it off, someone else would in a few years." "It'll be easier when we get a few more people to bridge the gap," Mycrowski said. "As in the first development of psi, the rest is (Continued on page #) Don't lose any sleep over it tonight, but your watch is wrong, the days are getting longer ( and we don't mean because spring is coming!) and, someday, your calendar is going to be obsolete! "It's About Time... By R. S. Richardson one of the most fascinating as well as probably the most hopeless of the standard subjects of sciencefiction. We have robots working for us, we can produce mutations in certain organisms at will, and everybody is agreed that we will soon be on our way to the moon and Mars. But so far as traveling in time is concerned we haven't been able to budge by so much as a single microjiffy. You can search the pages of the Physical Review in vain for any mention of chronagation. But although we are still stuck to the present moment as firmly as ever, there is an effect beginning to operate on our method of determining time somewhat analogous to that in H. G. Wells' story "The New Accelerator". It will be recalled that the story dealt with a drug which had the magical effect of speeding up one's sense of duration so that time seemed slowed down to a bare crawl. The effect operating upon us works in the opposite direction, so that the rest of the universe seems to be speeding up. So far as our daily lives are concerned we are as yet quite untouched. But the effect is becoming painfully apparent in comparing the predicted places of the heavenly bodies with their observed positions. So much so that astronomers are seriously urging that we alter our method of reckoning time, even to the extent of changing our fundamental unit of time itself. The trouble arises from the fact that all our calculations of the motions of the planets are made using what is called Newtonian time. It is a smooth flowing sort of time that increases at a steady rate through the ages. It is the quantity "t" in the mathematical equations of motion. We feel confident that we can run Newtonian time backward or forward as far as we please without getting into trouble. Newtonian time is invariable -- the same it will be in A.D. #. True Newtonian time is an abstraction; an ideal which we shall probably never be able to realize completely in practice. But we do the best we can by taking some body, whose motion seems to correspond closely to Newtonian time, and tying our clocks to it. In doing so, we have to use some body that is fairly accessible to observation even though imperfect in other respects. Obviously we couldn't use the period of revolution of the inner satellite of Mars as a timekeeper because it is too confounded hard to observe. For centuries the rotation of the earth has served as our fundamental timekeeper. In many respects it is nearly ideal. Its rate of rotation, as evidenced by the motion of the stars across the sky, is readily accessible to observation, affording us with a precise and comparatively easy means of checking on our imperfect man-made timepieces. We are all very conscious of time and know in a vague way that it is obtained in some way from the stars. But how? There are people who pride themselves on knowing all about the nucleus of the atom and the curvature of space but who couldn't tell you how we know when to blow the twelve o'clock whistle. the inner surface of a sphere which turns at the same rate that the earth rotates. This turning sphere is our clock. All the way around the sphere are bright stars which we use in telling the time in the same way that we use the numerals on the dial of a watch. Think of these stars as actually having numerals attached to them in the sky. Then when one of these stars crosses your meridian -- an imaginary line passing through your zenith to the north and south -- the numeral tells you the time. If the numeral on the star is # hours # minutes, then your clock should read # hours # minutes. If the clock says the time is # hours # minutes, then it is # minutes fast. A clock that keeps time this way according to the stars is a sidereal clock. A sidereal clock is a perpetual source of wonder to the visitors to an observatory. They simply can't figure it out. The first thing they do upon coming into the dome is to compare their watch with the sidereal clock. Generally the two are hours apart. After while they put their watch away and decide that it is one more thing they can't understand about an astronomical observatory. The reason the two clocks don't agree is because the watch in your pocket is rated to keep time -- not according to the stars -- but according to the sun. And a day by the sun is about # minutes longer than a day by the stars. The stars are (nearly) fixed in the sky. But the sun is always moving eastward among the stars at the rate of about a degree a day. If the earth had no atmosphere, like the moon, you could easily follow the motion of the sun against the background of the stars. Now it takes the earth about # minutes to rotate through n this one degree that the sun moves in a day. Hence the solar days are about # minutes longer than the sidereal days. As a result, a sidereal clock is always gaining on the watch in your pocket. A sidereal clock is also set to show time in a different way from your pocket watch. It is "sidereal noon" when an imaginary point in the sky called the vernal equinox is on your meridian. There is nothing in the sky to mark it but you can think of it as being represented by the sign V intended to represent the horns of a ram. When the sun crosses the vernal equinox, about March #st, that is the time spring begins. Ever wonder why they have a goat or ram on all those bock beer signs? Well, bock beer is made in the spring. And years ago the vernal equinox used to be in the constellation of Aries the Ram. The equinox has slid back into the constellation of Pisces the Fishes, but the horns of a ram are still used to mark its position. But we regulate our lives by the sun and not the vernal equinox. We want a clock that  tied to the sun. A clock that reads noon when the sun, and not the vernal equinox, is on our meridian. Regardless of how carefully you rated a clock, however, you never could make it keep in exact time with the sun. The trouble is not with the clock but with the motions of the earth which are reflected in the motion of the sun. The sun moves eastward at such an irregular rate that no two solar days are quite the same length. The difference between them doesn't amount to much. The extreme range during the year is only #I seconds. Yet this is far too much for precision timekeeping. We can't use the sun directly as our standard timekeeper. ( Incidentally the longest day of the year happens to come on December # which we ordinarily consider to be the shortest day of the year. Here is a good chance to get a bet out of your friends.) we would like it, we proceed to invent one that does. Our clocks are geared to run at the same rate as a purely imaginary sun that moves at the same average or mean rate as the real sun. We call this body the mean sun. All the mean solar days are the same length. We divide a mean solar day into # equal parts and call them seconds. And this mean solar second is our fundamental legal and scientific unit of time. How do we know if our watch is running correctly or not? We can't set it by observing the mean sun because there isn't any such body. We could get the correction by observing the real sun, since the two are always a known distance apart. But the sun is a large bright disk that is hard to set on accurately. It is better to get the correction to the sidereal clock from the stars which are nice sharp points. From the sidereal clock we can easily calculate the mean solar time. Here somebody is going to object that we are reasoning in a circle. How did we get the places for the stars from which sidereal time is obtained in the first place? Well, it is much too long a story to explain here. But, in the last analysis, we have to get our star positions from the sun. We tie the stars in with the sun until eventually we come to know their positions so accurately that we can use them to set our clocks. But it wasn't done in a day. Now it would seem as if our troubles are ended at last. As a result of centuries of painstaking toil on the part of a few underpaid individuals we have a nice series of stars whose positions are known to a hundredth of a second. But instead of being able to lean back and relax we find that our troubles in timekeeping are only beginning. More than two centuries ago Edmund Halley discovered some puzzling discrepancies between his observed positions of the moon and the time of certain ancient eclipses. It looked as if the moon were gradually speeding up in its orbit or undergoing what is termed a secular acceleration. About # Tobias Mayer suggested that this secular acceleration of the moon was due in reality to a slowing down in the rate of rotation of the earth caused by tidal friction. But in # Laplace showed that the gravitational action of the planets on the moon would produce a secular acceleration, of about the amount observed, so that the tidal friction theory went into temporary eclipse. Then in #, Adams carried Laplace's calculations out to a greater degree of refinement and showed that the planets could only produce about half of the observed acceleration in the moon's motion. Some forty years ago a chronologist named Fotheringham, who seemed to have gotten into astronomy largely by accident, made a detailed study of all the old eclipses, occultations, and whatnot, and definitely confirmed the existence of an acceleration in the moon's motion. The acceleration works in such a way that during the last # years the error in our clocks is about # T # seconds, where T is the number of centuries since #. A little arithmetic will show that in another # years the error will have mounted up to nearly three hours. This slowing down in the earth's rotation is ascribed to the friction between the water and land in narrow straits and channels such as the English Channel, the Straits of Malacca, and the Bering Sea. In addition to the secular acceleration, there are other irregular changes in rotation, of a rather startling nature, to which Fotheringham gave the name of trepidation. The origin of these is still unknown. The largest changes of this kind occurred in # and #. According to G. M. Clemence of the U. S. Naval Observatory, the accumulated error in the measure of time during the past # years has amounted to as much as # seconds due to this effect, first in one direction and then in the other. N OW, IF the earth is gradually slowing down, then it will seem to us as if the rest of creation is speeding up at the same rate. The difference will first become apparent in rapidly moving bodies, as they will differ from their predicted positions by the largest amounts. It is like losing a minute in timing the flight of a jet plane Along about # A.D. the clocks and a man on a mule. The jet would be so far ahead that they plane will be ahead of schedule by would register three o'clock in the many miles while the man on the afternoon when the sun is just mule will only be off by a few feet. crossing the meridian. That is why the secular acceleraThe other alternative is to go on tion first showed up in the moon, using mean solar time just as we do which moves much faster than any now. But whenever we wish to comother body whose motion has been pare the observed position of a carefully studied. planet with its predicted place we If we had nothing but the moon would use Newtonian time. This to check against the rotation of would be done by publishing corthe earth we might be in doubt as rections for converting mean solar to which one to believe. It would time into Newtonian time. Clembe like taking one man's word ence has given a table showing against another's. But we have the magnitude of the corrections Strong corroborative evidence from back to # B.G. He does not say the motions of the sun, Mercury, how these corrections were deVenus, and the four giant Jovian rived. satellites, all of which are ahead of Inevitably there will come a schedule by amounts corresponding time, however, when the day will to their average motions. have lengthened to such an extent What can we do to bring the obthat our way of life will be radically served positions of the heavenly affected. Writers who lay their bodies into agreement with their stories far in the future would do predicted positions? well to take heed as this is one of We could start correcting all the the few effects we can extrapolate time instead of mean solar time. dence. Let us try to envisage some Our clocks would no longer be tied conditions that will have been to the sun but would run according forced upon us when the day is to the length of the second at some about # hours long, arbitrary epoch such as January #, #. With the second growing running on the same schedule, they H twice as long, there will be only would gain continually on the sun. about half as many days in the Date Corr. Date Corr. # B.C.  # hours A.D. # # seconds # B.C.  # " #  A.D. I  # " # -- # " #  # " #  # " year. Our calendar will doubtless have been discarded, or else modified to such a degree as to be unrecognizable. There will have been some adjustment in reckoning wages, since if a man is paid by die hour he would have to work twice as long for the same amount of money. In fact, every sort of a rate that is reckoned in days, hours, minutes, and seconds will have had to be changed. A speed of # miles an hour would only be # miles an hour as measured today. But if interest is still calculated as so much per annum, then it is possible that these rates might be about the same, since the length of the year will not have altered. A man who is # years old would still be # years old, although the sun would have risen on him only half as many times as on a man of that age today. Presumably people would have had to adjust themselves to a somewhat greater range in temperature between day and night, as our planet would be heading in the same direction as the one-sided conditions that prevail on Venus. The reader can doubtless think of scores of other effects that would arise under such a regime. As just mentioned, the length of the year would remain unaltered, even in A.D. #, unless something wholly unforeseen happens. For this reason, theoretical astronomers have suggested that the mean solar second be dethroned as our fundamental unit of time in favor of the sidereal year. The sidereal year is the true period of revolution of the earth around the sun with respect to the sidereal universe. The mean length of the sidereal year appears to be a unit nearly in accordance with Newtonian time. At an international conference of astronomers, in #, on the fundamental units, it was recommended that the sidereal year be officially adopted as the standard of time where the mean solar second is unsuitable owing to its variability. It is conceivable that we may ultimately be able to construct clocks that will answer the purpose. Quartz crystal clocks have run a year with a maximum error of # seconds. At present, however, they are considered as too unreliable to serve as fundamental timekeepers. Also, there is the same objection to quartz crystal clocks that there is to the rotation of the earth: the period of vibration of the crystal changes slowly with aging and, for each crystal, this aging has to be determined from astronomical observations. Other possibilities are clocks based upon the rate of vibration of ammonia molecules under electrical excitation; the emission of particles from radioactive substances; the frequency of certain monochromatic spectrum lines; and even the period of Cepheid variable stars. The role of a prophet is always hazardous, but it seems rather doubtful if the heavenly bodies will ever be displaced from their role of fundamental timekeepers. With all their faults, the heavenly bodies can at least be relied upon to keep moving -- a feat we have never been able to achieve with any man-made device. ivwmvwwwwwnw;wwwvvvvMvvwvW'AVvwwwvwvnvvvwvvwmwvvnvwvvu by Joseph C. Stacey  Listed below (jumbled fashion) are names pertaining to heavenly f I bodies, phenomena, etc., together with a brief description of each.  I Can you match up at least # of them correctly for a passing score?  #-# is good; # excellent. Answers on page #.  (a) (b) ( c ) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) U) a long, narrow and generally straight valley on the face of the Moon. a small rainbow lying near the horizon, the tail of a comet. a star, the most conspicuous in the constellation Canis Minor. the name of one of planet Mars' two moons. a low, horizontal sheet of cloud, the apparent ends of Saturn's rings, which seen obliquely, seem to project from the sides of the planet like handles, a mass falling on the earth from celestial space. a halo round the moon or a star, relatively easy after the initial gain has been made." Marrin shook his head. "How can I believe you?" "How? Look!" Telepathy transmits delicate shades of meaning quite lost in spoken language. A 'true' statement, teleped, reveals immediately how 'true' the sender believes it to be. There are an infinite number of gradations to the 'truth.' As Ecks had, Marrin read Mycrowski's belief in the para-psi -- read it clear down to the subconscious level. An unimaginably 'true' truth! There was no possible argument. Suddenly Cari smiled. She had had one of her flash premonitions -- a pleasant one. "Help me up," Mycrowski said to Marrin. "Let me outline my training program." Marrin walked over to help him. Then Ecks grinned. He had just read Gari's premonition. When does life begin?... A well-known book says "forty". A well-known radio program says "eighty". Some folks say it's mental, others say it's physical. But take the strange case of Mel Carlson who gave a lot of thought to the matter. All in the Mind By Gene L. Illustrated by ing on clouds in the deepest, most intense dark he had ever experienced. He tried opening his eyes but nothing happened, only a sharp pain. Little bits of memory flashed back and he tried to figure out what could have happened, where he was. The last thing he could remember was the little lab hidden back in the mountains in an old mine tunnel. Remote, but only an hour's drive from the city. What had he been doing? Oh yes, arguing with Neil again. He even recalled the exact words. "Damn it, Mel," his partner had said. "We've gone about as far as possible working with animal brains. We've got to get a human Henderson Paul Orban "We can't," Mel had disagreed. "There'd be enough of an uproar if the papers got hold of what we've been doing with animals. If we did get someone in a hospital to agree to let us use his brain on death, they would close us up tighter than a drum." "But our lab's too well hidden, they'd never know." "It wouldn't work anyway. The brain might be damaged for lack of oxygen and all of our work would go for nothing. Worse, it might indicate failure where a fresh, healthy brain would mean success." "We'll never know unless we try," said Neil almost violently, dark eyes glittering. "Our funds aren't going to last forever." Mel had turned his back and was leaning over the tank where the latest brain -- that from a dog -- was lying immersed in the life-giving liquid, a tjiin flickering line of light on the oscilloscope behind the tank the only indication that the brain was alive. What, had happened then? He thought hard, until a sharp pain and growing headache almost made him lose consciousness. Either he'd passed out or something had happened. Maybe the cave had collapsed the concrete walls of their lab, although he didn't see how that could have happened. He became aware of voices, faint at first, then growing stronger. He strained to listen and just when it appeared that the words would become distinct enough to understand, they faded away. He waited hopefully until they came back. This time he could understand words and parts of sentences... connect this first and... "No, be careful. Too much voltage would ruin everything and we'd have to... "Where does this connection go, here?" The other voice boomed in then, deep vibrations feeling as if they would shatter his brain. There was a frantic quality in the words. "No, no, you fool, don't... A penetrating pain knifed through Mel's head and he tried to scream but heard nothing but a loud buzzing. He welcomed the loss of consciousness as it blanketed him. He struggled back to consciousness once more, a voice calling over and over in a monotone. "Mel, Mel Carlson. Can you hear me, Mel? Mel, Mel Carlson. Can you hear me, Mel?" he listened intently, recognizing it as one of the first voices he had heard. He tried to move but could feel no response of legs or arms. It was like being buried alive and he tried to call out for help. He must have lost his voice because he could still hear the same call. "Mel, Mel Carlson, can you..." It broke off abruptly, then came back triumphantly. "You do hear me, Mel, I can see." Again Mel tried to call out, without success. The other warned quickly. "Don't become alarmed. We're still working on your voice. Just try to rest." Mel suddenly realized that he'd been listening to Neil and a wave of thankfulness swept over him. There had been a cave-in then and he'd been injured. Neil was speaking again, a note of professional regret in his voice. "I'm sorry it had to happen this way but there was too much tied up in the project to lose now." A growing realization and horror began to seep through Mel's mind. Neil continued, after a brief pause. "The sine wave jumped. I see you must realize now. I had to do it, Mel. After all, you aren't dead you know, just your body is gone. Your brain may live for hundreds of years. Why just think, you'll be able..." Oblivion again claimed Mel. on clouds and this time the sensation was exhilarating. He tried moving his arms and legs to see if he could swim through the velvety darkness but failed. A faint glow began to appear ahead of him and a low rumble of voices began to echo throughout his mind. Full realization of what had happened swept over him and he struggled to retain his sanity. The voices were louder and he recognized that of Neil, who was saying, "... is conscious now. Easy on the voltage, remember last time." A brief pause, then louder. "Mel, I see that you hear me. Listen carefully. I've tried out several of my own theories, that's why you can hear. And, in just a moment, I'm going to give you eyesight. We're having trouble with a voice." The light began growing in intensity and hurt his eyeballs. Mel remembered then, depressed, that he had no eyes of his own. Even at the thought, he tried to shut his eyes which only caused his brain to ache more. He tried completely relaxing in an endeavor to capture the floating sensation once more. "Ah, that's better," approved Neil's voice. "I see that the brain wave has smoothed down. If you'll just accept what's happened, Mel, we should be able to work totogether." Figures began to form in the white mist. As they became stronger but out of focus, he saw Neil bent over a control panel, carefully making adjustments and glancing frequently at the leaping line of green light across the scope in front of him. He felt a surge of hate sweep through his brain and saw the green line jump violently. Neil's hand jumped instinctively toward a red-covered switch. At the same time, he flashed a glance towards a tank that was barely within the range of Mel's vision. He realized almost at once that it must be the same one in which his brain was resting. The full, sickening realization of what had happened hit him and he almost went over the black-out line. Then Neil's face loomed square in his direction and hate, the most intense he had ever experienced, brought the green line that represented his brain's output up to full level. His brain sent impulses out to the nerve ends that had controlled his arms and legs. They felt as if they were still attached to him but paralyzed. His mind felt clearer and sharper now than it ever had before in his life... He determined to analyze his new mental capabilities carefully in the hope he would find a means of striking back. During the next few weeks, only his hatred for Neil enabled Mcl to keep his sanity. The first empty feeling that the future could hold nothing for him but horror gave way to planning and scheming. His mechanical voice was perfected, operated by the nerve ends of his brain, much as his original vocal cords had functioned. It enabled him to now assist in his own rehabilitation by suggesting improvements or solutions to mechanical aids he could control. The steady growth or realization of his mental powers were amazing to Mel. He realized that they must have been inherent and in his subconscious all of the time, only his loss of body brought them out now. That, plus the fact that he required practically no rest if the stimulants pumped into the tank were sufficient. use by Neil. It became apparent that his erstwhile partner planned on using him to the fullest possible extent. First Neil brought in a problem concerning a new type of paint to absorb the rays of the sun and convert them into electrical energy. Not until he had studied the problem and given Neil the answer did Mel realize the full financial potentiality of his powers. He immediately brought up the subjects. "What about our partnership agreement on profits?" he asked. "Profits?" repeated Neil with a nasty smile. "Why? Where did you plan on going?" For once Mel was glad that his voice was flat and devoid of all inflection. It kept the other from sensing the rage that made him want to do something violent. "You know what I mean," he insisted doggedly. "Unless you want to admit murder, we're still partners." Neil laughed and said, "That's right. Of course I can draw any and all funds that I need but if the authorities ever check on your disappearance, they'll find that a separate account has been opened in your name in the City. All you have to do is go in and withdraw it any time you want to." He chuckled, then grew serious. "Don't get any ideas," he warned. "We've been spending most of the time during the past couple of months getting you in shape for your intended function and I'm going to bring more and more problems in to you." He explained further, "I've opened an engineering consultant service in the city and this paint formula alone will bring us all the business we'll need." He pretended to be busy at one of the computors being installed but Mel could see that he was glancing out of the corners of his eyes at the oscilloscope for indication of a brain reaction. Mel had learned several weeks ago that he could control the output of his brain and had been careful to conceal the fact from Neil. His partner said, disappointment in his voice. "Doesn't my attitude bother you anymore?" Mel's mechanical voice rolled out. "When you destroyed my body, you destroyed all emotions. If that's the way you want to do things, that's the way it'll be." "But the ethics..." "I know what would happen to me if you turned me over to the scientists. I'd be a freak and treated as such. I owe nothing to the world." "Swell," enthused Neil, this time his face twisted into a grimace of pleasure. "I've got a lot of plans that you'll fit into." Experiments had been made with muscular control and they discovered that Mel could govern an electrically powered table, controlled by short wave radio. Another "eye" that could swing in a # degree circle had been mounted on it and broadcast its information to Mel's optical circuit. A mechanical arm had also been installed on it and Mel spent long night hours when the lab was quiet perfecting his control over it. Before long, he was as much -- if not more -- proficient with it as he had been with his own arms. He began laying his plans. The first thing he needed was a weapon. Getting his control cart out of the cubicle was easy since Jenkins, the only assistant allowed in the entire laboratory, had left his key ring lying on a table one morning. It had been but the work of a moment to wheel over, pick them up and then conceal them. Jenkins had spent a frantic hour in search but finally went into the machine shop to make up a new set. He had first cautioned Mel against letting Neil know, almost fawning in his gratitude when Mel promised. He searched the entire lab the first two nights but discovered that Neil had taken the revolver he had kept in a drawer of his old desk. It would take too long to try and machine another one, although their machine shop had proven its capability of turning out anything. A knife he discarded as too clumsy for his means of control. He then carefully considered steel darts shot from a tube by compressed air or carbon dioxide but reluctantly abandoned that idea also. Since he had a machine's limitations as well as advantages, he'd have to begin thinking less like a human. So, the first thing to base a weapon on would be the material most plentiful in the lab. That was -- electricity. line of his endeavors, he briefly marvelled again on the still unexplored potentialities of his brain. The weapon would be mounted on his own cart and electricity could either be broadcast or self-contained. For mobility, he decided on a power pack. The weapon itself evolved so easily that he wondered why no one had thought of it before now. Special type condensers built a battery charge up second. This charge, invisible until it hit an object more solid than air, was contained in a very narrow beam by strong screens of opposite polarity. The entire sequence of operation was almost instantaneous, and the bolt was more in the nature of an electrical projectile than a continuous beam. He decided that the unit, resembling a flashlight, could be mounted in a concealed spot under his "eye" so that it could be fired at whatever he might be looking at. Now that he had a means of defending himself, Mel felt more at ease but at a loss for his next step. Merely eliminating both Jenkins and Neil would gain his revenge but what then? He could always notify the authorities but mentally flinched at exposing himself to the world as a freak and being at the mercy of the morbid curiosity of He had hardly begun to lay his plans before disaster struck. Neil came in early one morning and had Mel begin working on a problem concerning a new type of steel that would combine structural strength with the lightweight qualities of aluminum. Mel energized his calculators that were, electrically, practically part of his brain. He briefly wondered why Neil appeared so restless, wandering around the room with his hands behind his back, studying everything. Then the problem became so intriguing that he completely forgot that anyone was in the room. His first inkling that anything was wrong was when Neil straightened up from the cart with a twisted smile on his face and exclaimed: "Ha!" Mel's first, startled conjecture was that the other had discovered the special weapon. He tried to rotate the lens so that the weapon would point at Neil but could see, by other stationary lenses in the room, that the one on the cart remained motionless. The same was true of the mechanical arm. In fact, the entire cart was dead. "I pulled the main power fuse," said Neil, a slight smile on his face. "I suppose you thought you were getting away with it completely." Not positive as to how much his partner knew, Mel, decided on silence as his defense. The smile disappeared from the other's face and he continued, slowly: "Something must be wrong with your reasoning. I knew something was up when the power company's statement showed an unusually high increase in power consumption. From there on it was easy to read the meters at night myself, and then the next morning. What were you up to anyway?" Mei still maintained his silence. "Okay if that's the way you want it," said Neil more harshly. He walked to the end of the tank and Mel felt his brain telegraphing warnings to severed nerve connections not yet again in use. Neil reached out to a valve Mel recognized as controlling the minute amount of chemicals that served to nourish the cells in his brain. Relays were connected to it that also regulated the injection of oxygen proportionately into the fluid. He turned it slightly then began watching the oscilloscope closely. In a matter of seconds, Mel felt his usually sharp senses begin to dull. The oscilloscope blurred until, by great effort, he brought u into focus again. He saw that the height of the wavy line denoting the strength of his brain's output was abnormally low. "Feeling all right?" asked Neil in mock anxiety. He turned the valve back to its correct setting and almost instantly Mel felt better. "That's just a sample of what can happen if you force me to it," warned the other. "A little more of a turn and that super brain of yours would be garbage. Only I wouldn't do that, of course. There are a few more experiments I want to make before your brain dies." Knowing the vicious nature of his partner, Mel decided to talk before the other goaded himself into some unplanned action. "Don't forget the fable about the goose that laid the golden eggs," his voice rolled out. "There's still a lot I could do for you, you know -- or not do." He saw with relief that the anger receded from the other's face to be replaced by a look of cunning. "I almost forgot," said Neil. "I've another surprise for you." He went to a circuit near the master calculator that he himself had installed only several days ago. All the master components were open, a rheostat appearing to be the primary control. Mel had decided at the time it had to do with voltage regulation of the calculator since there had been trouble with it. Neil placed his hand on it, then turned his head in the general direction of the tank and said, "Just in case you get ideas of not cooperating, I can use this for persuasion." He cracked the vernier just a trifle and agony knifed through Mel's brain. It receded, leaving a slight ache. "Not much voltage," Neil was saying with satisfaction, "but, judging from the way your brain wave jumped. I don't imagine it felt very good, did it?" "You win," was Mel's only comment, not wanting another jolt. Never before had he felt so helpless and completely at the mercy of another. He realized more and more that he had less defense than a new-born baby, which could at least kick and wave its hands. He could do nothing except try to retain his sanity and wait for his day to come... "Good," approved his partner, his manner indicating that it was the most natural thing in the world that Mel should give in. "Just in case you forget, I think I'll keep the cart disconnected so that you can't do anything to harm yourself at night." His manner abruptly turned business-like. "Now then, that paint formula story got around and we've got a lot of business to handle. Most of it's routine for you but we'll drag it out and sock them plenty. A couple of items we'll copy after you've solved them and say it couldn't be done." than he though he would. It was much like the time when, as a boy, he'd broken a leg and had to stay in bed for several weeks. He was forced to turn in on himself. The real turn in the development of his mind, and above the level he had thought possible, came about as an accident one day. Resting, with nothing to do, he had the full room in vision with the stationary lenses. A flicker of motion caught his attention and careful waiting disclosed it to be a small mouse that had somehow gained access to the laboratory and then into his room. Welcoming any change in his routine, he watched as the small creature scurried around the room looking for something to eat. Several times Mel amused himself by causing his voice box to rumble, making the rodent scurry around madly for a hiding place until the imagined danger had passed. Eventually it became used to the noise and not even talking affected it. It disappeared from sight for several minutes and Mel had just begun to wonder if it had a nest in the equipment when it reappeared on top of the calculator, near the electrical prod that Neil had used on his brain. Remembering the searing jolt it had given him, Mel watched anxiously as the mouse pushed an inquisitive nose into the still exposed components. He became more concerned as the animal became more intrigued. Not only was there danger that the mouse would push down on a delicate relay and close it, but he could conceivably short out the main power supply. The result wasn't pleasant to contemplate. If it didn't permanently damage some of his brain cells, the pain might drive him into insanity. He tried shouting but the mouse paid no attention to him. He called for first, Jenkins and then Neil until he remembered that his partner had said they were going in after some special equipment. While he watched helplessly, the mouse stretched out and touched a relay point. Instantly pain knifed through his brain and he became aware of a roaring sound that he realized was his voice blaring out. The extra loud and continued blast of sound had caused the mouse to withdraw nervously from the relay. Something about it had made him determined, however, and as Mel was barely recovering from the first jolt, the mouse moved back. Mel wished desperately that the cart had been left in operation so that he might at least use the sound of motion or the mechanical arm to frighten his tiny tormentor from the vicinity of the relay. He watched intently as the mouse came closer to the points, oblivious to everything else in the room. As it almost touched the points, a violent surge of hate coursed through his brain cells and he was surprised to see the mouse flung violently back down to the floor. It lay there motionless and he finally realized, with thankfulness, that it was dead. As the pain from the jolt subsided to the point where lie could barely feel it, he began to wonder what had happened. The amount of voltage necessary to hurt him was so small that nothing beyond a direct short across the primary power would have affected the mouse. He began to analyze everything preceding the point where the mouse had been flung from the top of the calculator. A check and recheck brought the same answer, one that he had at first refused to believe -- his thoughts had been responsible. Further contemplation convinced him that, while his thoughts had undoubtedly been responsible, the mental power itself had not been enough, as pure, brute force, to accomplish the task, but must have struck at the rodent's brain itself. That would have been enough to convulse the animal's muscles and make it look at first as if some outside force had hurled it to the floor. The stolid Jenkins was somewhat perturbed when he found the dead mouse. "But how could it get in here," he demanded querulously. Then, as if in sudden thought, "and what could have killed it?" Mel suddenly decided that it might be better if the other were set at ease since even Jenkins could disect it if he became curious enough and might find enough to make Neil suspicious. "I saw it yesterday," he said. "I didn't say anything since it was interesting and was company for me. I noticed that it was moving more slowly today and seemed to be weaker. It must have starved to death. Nothing to eat in here, and he couldn't get out." "Yeah," agreed the other, picking it up and throwing it into a wastepaper basket. The explanation had evidently satisfied him. since he went about his routine tasks. discovery had worn off, Mel began to cautiously test its potential. He carefully directed his thoughts at Jenkins and caused an instant reaction. For a brief moment, he felt a resiliant pressure as if something were pressing against his own brain. He instinctively pushed back harder and heard Jenkins yell as the opposing pressure collapsed. The assistant was leaning against a work tabic, a dazed look on his face. "What happened?" Mel asked. "I don't know," said the other, pressing a hand to the side of his head. "It felt as if something had hit me in the head, now it aches a little. Guess I'll have to do something about this cold." He left, still holding a hand to his head. It was obvious that his newly discovered power could be dangerous so Mel proceeded with his experimenting more slowly. Jenkins was still his only guinea pig and he learned to gage just when the assistant's resistance was about to collapse and reduce the intensity of his own probing accordingly. He was disappointed to discover that either it was impossible to read another's mind or that he hadn't discovered the method. However, he could roughly direct the other's actions. Jenkins had been becoming increasingly nervous so Mel became even more subtle in his experimenting. He'd wait until the assistant was idle and then either make him cross his legs or put one or the other of his hands up to scratch his head. He finally became so smooth and accurate in his control that it lost most of its interest as a means of recreation. He began to extend his range. Wood and concrete offered no impedance at all. Metal, with the exception of aluminum, cut the intensity roughly about half. Jenkins was in Mel's room when he first probed Neil's brain. His partner's mental resistance was much higher and he pressed slowly but methodically so that the break-through would be controlled. To his surprise, he found that Neil's brain was much easier to control than that of Jenkins had been. It was about this time that he found he was beginning to master the sharing of his host's eyesight. While he might not be able to read another's mind, it would be a big help to know that someone else was doing or what he was looking at. He tried searching outside the building but found nothing, other than an occasional small spot of resistance that would probably indicate a small animal. This wasn't surprising since the lab was hidden in caves in a secluded canyon that had no attraction to the casual wanderer. His next concentration was on the animals he encountered every so often. His first few attempts resulted in sudden and complete collapse of resistance and he sadly concluded that his control had been too powerful and resulted in their death. He tried more carefully and was overjoyed when he established contact with their visual senses. The sensation was almost as overpowering as if he had suddenly gained eyesight of his own. For the first time in months, he revelled in seeing the country around the outside of the lab and never before had he thought it so beautiful. Once, while in control of a rabbit's mind, he saw an eagle flying overhead. He quickly transferred and, before the bird flew far enough away to make control impossible, he enjoyed the far-reaching vision of the bird's eyes as it swept on towards some hidden nest. He could even see the city in the distance. to notice Neil's entrance into the room, so absorbed did he become in his newly discovered, if second-hand, freedom. "What's happened to you anyway?" demanded his erstwhile partner one day after he had had to repeat a question. "Half of the time lately you're lost in a world of your own. What're you up to anyway?" "Nothing," replied Mel, suddenly alert to any new danger, although confident he could take care of himself now. "I was just going over some new equations I've been formulating as a hobby. Now that you've taken away my cart, there isn't much to keep me occupied you know. You don't begin to bring enough problems. What's wrong?" Mel wished that he could read the others' mind since Neil began to act evasive. He laughed with a false heartiness. "Wrong? Why I've -- we've -- " he corrected, " -- already made a fortune on a couple of our own patents as well as commissions from project solutions. Someone might get suspicious if we did too well or too much." This made sense but Mel couldn't resist digging. "You mean that your past record of success as measured against your supposed one now might make the police ask questions?" he asked. The other remained silent so he pressed the attack. "Or are they already wondering why I haven't been seen for so long?" "There were a few questions at first," admitted the other, "but I think I've satisfied them all. However, I've been thinking that it might be a good idea to move you somewhere else." "But hardly anyone knows the lab exists," protested Mel. "The power company does, even if the meters are way down the road. We should've planned on our own generators from the first. Then there's the deed recorder. This land is in both of our names you know." "It'd still be a tremendous project," pointed out Mel. "You couldn't begin to keep the new location secret because you'd need help in moving me. One little slip and it'd be all over." There was an upward curl to the other's lips that Mel didn't like. "Oh, we'd have to be careful," he admitted. "Luckily the time delay wouldn't hurt any, there's so much money rolling in." He hesitated for a moment, as if in thought, then concluded, "In fact, there's no project on now unless you have a private one of your own. It might be a good idea to plan on the move right away." "I still don't like the idea," stated Mel flatly. "I'd like to think it over for a couple of days." "Think it over all you want," said Neil with a grin. He walked to the calculator and patted it near the jolter. "Only don't forget I don't have to ask you." He waited almost hopefully but Mel said nothing, content with the feeling of power and knowledge that, so long as he was prepared, the other could do nothing immediate to harm him. The time had come for action, however. Mel kept mental contact with his partner after he had left. Neil went directly to the office and unlocked the center drawer of his desk. He then began pulling out papers and scanning them rapidly, placing some back and keeping others out. Mel gasped to himself when he saw the bank statement and the amount of money deposited under the name of the partnership. That in Neil's personal account was large but it was perfectly obvious, according to dates Mel could see through the other's eyes, that the transfer of funds had not been underway for long. As it now' stood, they were knew Neil wouldn't be satisfied. Watching through the other's eyes, Mel had his vision switched from the desk to the door. He saw that Jenkins had just entered, mouth moving. He thought he could read his lips just enough to make out his own name. Jenkins appeared to stop and listen to Neil, then his facial expression changed as his lips protested over something. Mel's vision then switched to another desk drawer that had been opened and he saw his missing revolver nesting in it. Neil withdrew it and pointed it at Jenkins. The assistant stepped back, hands up as if to ward off a blow. Then a placating, if anxious, smile spread over his face and his mouth worked rapidly, too much so for Mel to read any words. Whatever had been said, it appeared to satisfy Neil since he lowered the revolver. back to his own room and stationary video scanners that served as his eyes. Jenkins came in and his manner made it plain to Mel that he was laboring under an intense pressure. He began puttering around the work table, gradually making his way closer to the tank housing Mel's brain. "Jenkins," said Mel, purposely extra loud. The assistant jumped nervously, dropping a piece of metal he had picked up. "Yes," he almost quavered. "Have you ever thought how it would be to be condemned to a life like mine?" "No-o-o, not especially. Why should #?" "You helped put me here, you know." "I was only following orders, I -- " "All right, all right. I know how Neil can force a person to do something. But you could help me, you know." "How's that?" suspiciously. "I'm not going to tell anyone, if that's what you're driving at." "No, I'm not trying to get you to do that. All I want is the fuse replaced on the cart. Then it would feel as if I were moving around and break up the monotony. This is worse than any solitary cell in prison could ever be." "No," refused the assistant flatly. "It wouldn't do you any good anyway. It's just -- " He stopped, hand going to his mouth as if he had said something he wasn't supposed to. "How's that, Jenkins?" reminded Mel as gently as he could. "What's supposed to happen?" "I don't know," replied Jenkins sullenly. "Put a fuse back in the cart," directed Mel. At the same time he applied pressure almost to the breaking point against the other's mind. "No!" He knifed through to the other's brain with ease and just enough power to accomplish his purpose without harming Jenkins. This was the most complete control Mel had ever attempted and Jenkins' legs moved spasmodically as though he were a puppet on strings. There was horror in his bulging eyes and sweat began breaking out on his forehead. Relentlessly he was forced towards the cart until at last it had been reached. "Jenkins," said Mel as low as he could. "Can you hear "me?" A slight twitch of the head was the only indication that he could, so Mel instructed, "There's a spare fuse near the holder, Jenkins. Take it out and place it in the primary circuit. Do that and I'll let you go. If need be, I could kill you now. The fuse, Jenkins." He relaxed his hold slightly but Jenkins made no attempt to comply. Mel continued, "Remember the dead mouse, Jenkins? I did that. The fuse, before I lose my patience." He applied more power until the other's hand began moving unsteadily towards the cart. As he withdrew slightly, from mental contact, Jenkins continued his task and in a moment Mel was able to move the cart. He had momentarily forgotten Jenkins until he became aware that the assistant had let out a yell of terror and was rushing for the door. Mel watched with amusement, knowing that he could have stopped the other with hardly a strain. Just before he reached the door, it opened and Neil appeared. Jenkins came to a halt and stared in terror at his employer. "Well," said the other impatiently. "What's been keeping you, Jenkins? Did you -- " "No, he didn't," answered Mel. At the same time he caused the cart to move sideways and swung the video scanner until it was staring directly at Neil. "Well," said the latter accusingly, switching his gaze to the terrified Jenkins. "So this is how you follow out orders." "He made me do it, boss. He made me," babbled Jenkins as Neil, face set with determination, drew his revolver from a pocket. Before the astounded Mel could do more than gaze incredulously, there were two sharp cracks and Jenkins slowly placed his arms around his stomach and rocked back and forth in agony, before toppling over to the floor to lie motionless. "Now you," said Neil, swinging his revolver towards Mel's tank. Mel frantically stabbed at his partner's mind but could feel no pressure. Another shot rang out and he felt a numbing pressure seemingly from every direction that could only mean it was against his physical brain itself. The shock forced him to use every bit of power he possessed to keep conscious. Neil had lowered the revolver a trifle and was saying in a superior tone, "Whatever you did to Jenkins, it's only hastened the inevitable, if that makes you feel any better. I'd have had to get rid of him too, once you were disposed of." He began raising the revolver again and the dazed Mel instinctively relayed power to the cart. The eye had been pointing directly at Neil and the only sound that indicated the energy gun had been set off was a slight hiss. The effect on Neil was not only instantaneous but horrible to see. His body appeared to swell until he looked bloated, then disintegrated. weak and hastily brought the cart over to examine the damage the one shot had done to him. Almost fearfully he scanned himself and saw, with relief, that the shot had penetrated the tank and was letting the life-giving liquid escape onto the floor. A quick glance into the tank showed that the lead pellet had missed his brain but the pressure on the Equid had caused him the initial pain. He directed the cart over to the work bench and brought back a tapered piece of wood. The arm placed it into the hole and then applied pressure until the trickle had stopped. It would do until he could effect a permanent patch. He began to feel stronger almost immediately and knew that the automatic features of his metal "body" were renewing the liquid at top speed. Using the cart, he first checked the supply of chemicals, fed as needed into the tank, and saw that there was a sufficient quantity to last him for at least a month. He thanked the good fortune that had allowed Jenkins to put the cart into operation before it was too late. Without it, his end would have been as certain as if Neil had been His first task was to construct several more carts, each complete with video scanner. One of them was larger than the other. It's first task was to dispose of the two putrifying bodies. Working almost # hours a day, he hooked an intercommunications system to every room of the underground lab and directly into his system. Even the telephone was connected to it so that, if necessary, he could answer it or make a call. The day finally arrived when there was no more he could do. The entire lab was almost like a steel and concrete body, so thoroughly had its every function been integrated as part of his brain. The decision he had been almost frantically avoiding could no longer be put aside, fie had approximately a week in which to decide. It would be simple to call the police and in turn let them notify the various scientists as to his position. He dreaded the thought of the circus that the lab would become. Erstwhile friends would troop in to look at him with morbid curiosity. Then when his potential became known, tasks would be assigned. There was a definite possibility that he would be moved, even at the danger of injury to himself. Countless thousands would demand it and their will would be obeyed unless the curtain of national security could be drawn across him. One day was spent in contacting the animals outside the lab and revelling in flight for awhile. Then he sped through the countryside, first with a coyote, then with a deer. There was a possibility that if the scientists moved him, his new tank would be shielded so that it would be impossible to enjoy himself as he now was. All in the name of science of course. On the other hand, if it were possible to have all supplies delivered to a nearby point where he could pick them up, he could continue his present method of existence. His mind jumped eagerly from problem to problem which he could undoubtedly solve for the benefit of mankind. The present patents in the partnership's name would bring enough money indefinately to pursue them since much could be done by pure thought. There was the survival phase first. He would devise an electronic blanketing ray that would dampen all atomic explosions. Then he could turn to the health of people all over the world, wipe out diseases. All this would depend, of course on his being able to remain undisturbed and that might tax his powers to their utmost. He wondered if it would be worth the efTort. Finally he had less than three days left, which narrowed the safety margin to the lowest point he cared to think about. He opened the telephone circuit and heard the operator say, "Number please." He hesitated briefly, then said, "The Waring Chemical Supply House, please." His order was soon placed and, afterwards, he felt almost as free and elated as when, as a boy, school had let out for the summer. The manual dexterity of the metallic fingers he had constructed would enable him to write checks with his own signature. A faint idea had even tickled his curiosity and he felt certain that he could grow cells within a couple of weeks. From there, he could work on a body for himself, one even more efficient than the old one Neil had destroyed. A human in the lab at that moment would have been startled. As near possible as it was for any wheeled vehicle to do so, he had several carts almost doing a jig in the main office. His new life had just begun. #-c, #-g, #-j, #-h, #-i, #-d, #-b, #-e, #-a, #-f. If you ever get to drinking beer in your favorite saloon and meet a scared little guy who wants to buy you the joint , supply you with fur coats and dolls and run you for Qongress -- listen well! That is, if you really want the joint, the fur coats, the dolls and a seat in Congress. Just ask Mike Murphy... probability By Louis Trimble Illustration by Ed Emsh comes in I'm new on the job. He looks around as if he's scared a prohibition agent will pop out of the walls and bite him. Then he gets up his nerve and sidles to the bar. His voice is as thin as the rest of him. "Glass of beer." I draw. He drinks and pays and goes out. That keeps on, Monday through Friday at five-ten p.m., year in and year out. He slips in, peers around, has his beer, and pops out. Even in '#, when we become legitimate, he acts the same way -- scared of his shadow. Except he isn't big enough to have a shadow. During the war, when we're rationed, I save him his daily glass. He never fails to come in except for two weeks every summer when he's on vacation. From # to # he drinks one daily beer. In thirty-one years, he and I grow older together, and after the first ten he talks a little so that over a period of time I manage to learn something about him. That first day he'd come in, he was on his first job out of college. Well, so was I, only I went to bartending school to learn how to mix prohibition liquor. But even so, it gave us something in common, and when he learned we had started life together -- as he put it -- he talked a little more. His name is Pettis. Six months after I learn that, I get his first name. It's Rabelais, and I could see why he doesn't like it. But when he breaks down and tells me, he gets real bold and says: "And what's yours, my male Hebe?" "Mike Murphy." "Naturally," he said. He laughs. It is the only time I hear him laugh in thirty-one years. I can't see anything funny. He is a draftsman for those old skinflints Gartner and Dillson. When they die, their sons take over and are even worse. In the depression, Pettis gets a little shabby but he always has the price of a glass of beer. In '# he's at the same desk and doing the same job he started on in '#. In '# he gets married. He tells me so. Tasting his beer, he says, "I'll be married this time tomorrow." I often wonder what his wife looks like but I never see her. Not even when it gets decent for ladies to come in, she never shows. Marriage doesn't seem to change him; he never looks happier or less shabby or less browbeat. In '# I heard his first complaint. By then we're both getting into our forties and, what with his lack of size and caved-in chest and my insides all busted up from preWorld War I football, the army doesn't want us. So he never misses a day except on his vacation. He says, "I can't get raw materials." About three months later, I understand what he means when he says, "My hobby is inventing." In '# I ask him, "What do you invent?" It takes him two years to decide to tell me. By now we are pretty good pals. He never tells anyone else that I know of. Pie says, "I invent machines. Super machines." In '# he says, "But they don't work. Someday... A ND IN '#, on the day of our thirty-first anniversary, you might say, he comes in and things are different. All different. I can feel it when he opens the door and comes in at five-o-nine instead of five-ten. There is plenty more different, too. He walks up to the bar like it's his and roars: "Two beers, Mike!" I drop a glass I'm so surprised, but I give him two beers like he wants. He gulps them both down, puts a foot on the rail and looks me straight in the eye. His eyes are a sort of washed blue. I've never noticed them before. "Beer for the house!" he yells at me. "Take it easy, Mr. Pettis," I says. "Easy, hell!" he shouts and slaps a roll as big as his hand on the bar. "And call me Rabelais, Mike. We're pals, aren't we?" "You bet," I assures him. And I mean it. Not because of the dough. That makes me sweat. I can't figure where this little guy gets such a wad. And good money, too. He sets them up three times. By now he's feeling fine. I suggest he get going before he misses the last train home. "I already missed it," he says proudly. "And I'm not going home. Let the old battle-axe really have something to complain about. Beer, Mike!" Tn a way I hate to see it, but then I figure a man has a right to let off a little steam once every thirty-one years. Even so, I get a little worried when he asks for the phone and calls up his wife. He says, "Myrtle, this Rabelais. Rabelais, your husband, you old sow." He takes a breath and says, "You're damned right I'm drunk. And I'm staying that way. Go home to your mother... Oh yes, you are. You're leaving on the #:# tomorrow and you'll eat chicken a la king on the train and fall asleep at Holt's Corner and snore all the way home. And your mother will be mad because her left fender will get dented on the way to the station." Bang! He hangs up. "Rppr Mike" "Now look, Mr. -- Rabelais -- " He ignores me. "Mike, who owns this place?" I don't, but I'd like to. I tell him who my boss is and he hunts him up in the phone book and calls him. He says, "This is Rabelais Pettis. I want to buy your Fifth Avenue Tavern. How much?... Sold!" And so help me, the boss comes down and Rabelais hauls bills from every pocket and lays it on the bar in a great big pile. Then he has the boss sign the place over to me. Me, Mike Murphy. I .figure tomorrow when he wakes up broke I'll have to give it back. But tonight I own it. I'm real proud. But I don't get to enjoy it. He says, "Mike, let's do the town." Can you refuse a guy who just gives you a thirty thousand dollar pioperty? We do the town. We do the girl shows, and he yells at all the dames and tries to date the usherettes until we finally get pitched out. We get pitched out of five before I steer him to a hash house. "Phooey," he says. "We'll go to the Buster for a steak." That's our fanciest place where the food starts at ten dollars. We have two of the biggest steaks I ever saw with champagne and stuff, and so help me, when Rabelais tries to date the floor show girls, instead of getting pitched out, we walk out with two of the cutest kids I ever hope to see. Only they're young enough to be our daughters or maybe granddaughters even. Rabelais is big hearted if not big in any other way. He says to his kid, a redhead a foot taller than he, "Do you have a fur coat?" "No, Rabelais." She learns fast that he likes the name now. "Ha," he says. "Then we'll get some." "In the summer?" I asks. "We'll make it winter," Rabelais says. "I'm tired of summer. Besides in '# there's a new bar in town and it's a pip." Now the three of us are halfway sober and we just look at each other and shrug. But Rabelais acts and talks normal enough. He calls a cab and has us hauled to an old cottage in the suburbs. He waves the cabby off with a twenty dollar bill. When we go inside, he points across the way. "I live there. This is my secret laboratory." We think he is kidding us some more because there isn't anything but dust and cobwebs in the place. But he takes us to the basement and there is a whole mess of junk lying around. There are bars and gears and wires and some stuff that doesn't make any sense at all. It has cobwebs and dust on it too. "My super machines," he says. "They don't work." The redhead looks a little as if she thinks he's nuts. But what can she do? Already he's given her a hundred dollar bill just for fun. "But," he says, leading us into another room, "this one does work." There isn't anything in the room but a big metal plate on the floor with a wooden bench on it and levers and rods in front of the bench. "Climb on," Rabelais says. We sit on the bench to humor him and he pulls one lever as far left as he can, then another a little ways, then another, and a fourth. Then he twists a rod to the right. The lights go out and a cold draft of air comes in through a window. When the lights come on the air is still cold. The girls are shivering. "Three p.m., January #, #," says Rabelais. "Let's go get fur coats." So we go out the way we came in and it's daylight. And there's snow on the ground. The cottage is the same but the street is a highway now. Rabalais hails the fanciest looking cab I ever see and we get driven to town where he buys all of us fur coats in a store I never heard of. Then we go to a dinner club that makes the Buster look like a greasy spoon. None of us can say a word. After he pays the check, Rabelais says, "I'm short of cash. Let's go to the bank." "Banks ain't open," I remind him. "Mine is," he says and makes a phone call. Pretty soon a big fancy limousine with a chauffeur drives up and we all pile in. I manage to balk long enough to buy a newspaper. Sure enough, the date is January #, #. We go to the financial section and right past my tavern. It's all lighted up and fancy looking and outside. Rabelais says, "You're making a mint, Mike." "I see," I agrees, dazed. Rabelais flicks the paper with a silly grin and tells me to look on page four. I do and there's an editorial beside a cartoon of me, pot belly and all, and it says, "Mayor Mike Murphy agrees to run for Congress... "Me?" "You," says Rabelais. "You make it, too, Mike." Before I can answer, we stop at a building lighted up. Over the door it says, "Pettis." That's all. It's his, the whole building. And it's full of offices. He shows me one where his former bosses are slaving over drafting boards. The bank part is closed but some slavics are working late as people in banks always do and we go in and Rabelais gets a wad of money and we leave. It goes on like that. I'm ashamed to say we get sort of looped and the next thing we know we're in Paris and having a fine time. Then we take another flier on his machine and it's summer. We enjoy that for a while and then try another season. It goes on that way for a couple weeks. Once we accept the fact that we're traveling in time, it's easy. But Rabelais, even when he's looped, won't take us into the past or far into the future. He just says, "We have to watch probability, Mike." I don't get the idea but it doesn't seem to matter much. We're having too good a time kicking around in the near future. Finally when we all feel ready for a Keeley cure, Rabelais takes us home. We land in the basement at the very moment we left it but with our fur coats and fancy luggage and souvenirs. Rabelais locks over all the gadgets we have and those that are too much ahead of our time, he throws away. In a taxi heading for town, I smoke my dollar cigar. I'm happy. The girls are quiet, a little sad. "It was fun," the redhead sighs. "Kicking won't seem the same." "Quit that kind of work," Rabelais says. "Go to college or something." And he hands each of them a big wad of money. Downtowm we split up, each of us going off somewhere to get the rest we need. I sleep around the clock and a little more. When I wake up I'm the owner of a tavern still, so I figure I'm to be mayor in '# and congressman in '#. It's a wonderful life for a w'hile. The only thing is that I miss Rabelais coming in at fiveten for his beer. In '# I get elected Mayor like he said. My business gets remodelled and all is swell. in my new house and I wake up in the middle of the night feeling a cold draft. When I turn over I roll onto a lump in the mattress and I know it was all a dream and I'm Mike Murphy, bartender, again. The next a.m. I pick up the paper and it's the summer of '#, the day of Rabelais and my thirty-first anniversary and I'm back at the old stand. It was a fine dream, I says, and go to work. At five-o-nine, though, I can't help looking at the clock. And sure enough, Rabelais comes in, walks up to the bar like he owns it and roars at me, "Two beers, Mike!" I can't help saying, "Look, haven't we done this before?" He grins at me. "And we may have to do it again a few times," he says. By now I know him pretty well, I think -- or maybe I dreamed I know him; I'm not sure. Anyway, I give him the two beers and wait for him to get around to telling me whatever is on his mind. He goes through the same act as before -- only I can't be sure he did go through the act or I dreamed he did. "Beer for the house," he yells. "Take it easy," I cautions. "Take it easy, Rabelais." "You never called me by my first name before, did you, Alike?" I open my mouth to remind him that he told me to back in # and then I remember it is #. That confuses me because I remember, too, that in # I was -- or maybe it's that I'm going to be -- mayor. I just close my mouth and wait. Rabelais takes his time. When the early rush clears out, he gets me off to one end of the bar and says, "Sorry to keep you waiting, Mike, but we have to do it all over again." "Then it wasn't a dream?" "No dream," he says. "But everything was going fine." "Up to a point," he says. "Up to the sixties." Then he explains the way his machine works. But all I get out of what he says is that there's a law of probability so he can't go back and shoot his grandfather when the old man is a boy or juggle stocks in '# to pay off and make him rich in '# and things like that. That is why he wouldn't let us go back into the past. He was afraid we would do something to change, history and -- bingo. And he wouldn't let us go into the future very far because up a way the atom bomb gets loose and it is awfully sad to see and dangerous besides. "That was in the sixties," he says. "Or will be in the sixties. Only I got it figured out so it won't be, Mike." It's over my head; I just keep on waiting. He explains that he made a pile of dough in the near future by betting on horse races and cleaning out a few bookies and investing his winnings in stocks he knew were going up ( and in fact they wouldn't have gone up if he hadn't looked into the future and known they would so he could go back and buy them) and anyway, he figured the exact day it would be safe to start and so he did. "Only," he says, "we made a mistake by making you mayor and then congressman. I have it figured out for you to be congressman right from the start -- in fifty-four. That gives you two extra years of seniority on Congress and so when the chips are down you have a little more pull." "Fine," I says and start to take off my apron. "The thing is," he explains, "there are a couple of lunkheads in Congress that get super-patriotic and they're the ones who cause the trouble with the bomb getting loose." He leans over the bar and looks real serious at me. "And you," he goes on, "are the one who stops them before they get started." "Me? Me, Mike Murphy?" "You," he says. "We just go on a different time track from the one we tried before. And this one ought to work." He gives me his grin. "You should see the history books about the year #. You're a real national hero, Mike." I throw my apron into a corner and roll down my sleeves. I'm ready. And it goes just like Rabelais says. I pass up the mayor's job and go straight to Congress. In my third term I get a chance to cool those two excitable characters -- cool them politically, that is, and I do. The only thing wrong is that Rabelais never lets me go into the future to read the history books that tell what a great guy I was and the things I did. So I'm never sure I'm doing the right thing. Like I tell him, how can I be sure what to do if he won't let me read about what I did? Alas, poor Halvor! He was, undoubtedly, as intelligent and capable as many of our most famous conquerors. Unfortunately, however, Halvor the Omnipotent lived in a day when people had changed -- considerably ! The Last Conperor By Morton Klass wanted to conquer the world. And who did. His name was Halvor the Omnipotent. You all know the name of course. The day of his death is commemorated yearly by the entire world. And now you are old enough to understand the reason why. When you belonged to earlier age groupings, you learned of the ancient conquerors -- Alexander, Caesar, Genghis Khan, Napoleon, Hitler, Stalin and others who raised mighty armies and waged lions of lives. But these were conquerors of ancient times, while Halvor lived in a world very much like your own. Halvor was born almost eight hundred years ago, almost two hundred years after the Last Great War of #-# and the establishment of the New Civilization. He lived in a children's house which was probably very much like the one you are living in now. His childhood was very much like yours. With one difference. Halvor was born suffering from hemophilia. In two hundred years mankind had made tremendous strides. Microbe and virus diseases had disappeared. It was no longer possible to inherit functional disabilities. But certain things take time. With gene control still in its infancy at that time, if a child were born of mutated germ plasm, the science of eight hundred years ago could do little for him. Oh, they made things as comfortable as possible for Halvor. By the time he was three years old he had learned how to apply clotting salve to any cuts he received. What his blood was not capable of doing, science could do for him. But from some things Halvor would be eternally barred. He could never play the everyday games of the other children. He could never romp with the animals in the woods outside the children's house. And he was different from the other children. They knew it -- and he knew it. That would never happen today. First, of course, because hemophilia such as his would be removed before the baby was born, and secondly, because we know enough today to see to it that no child feels different from the rest. You mustn't sneer at the world of Halvor's day. They were learning as fast as they could, after so many thousands of years of total ignorance, but there was so much to learn, and so much to understand. And there still is. You will know more than your parents, and your children more than you. Well, Halvor was different. He studied the same things the other children did, but, because he was different, they meant different things to him. The other children learned of the horrible habits of the primitive peoples of pre-civilizational times, and they were glad -- just as you are -- that they hadn't lived in those times. Halvor was unhappy in his world, and wished he had been born in some other. The filth, the sicknesses, the hunger, pain, unfriendliness, ignorance and discomforts of barbaric days had no significance for him. His adult guides were aware of his attitudes, of course, and they reported it to the community leaders. Everyone tried to think of some way to make Halvor happy. But there was nothing anyone could do. Many people felt it was their own fault that Halvor was not satisfied with his life -- that they were still too ignorant to prevent unhappiness -- and it made them very sad. eighteenth birthday and left the children's house, the problem arose as to what he would do with his life. He was not the only misfit in his world, but the others were able to adjust. Some were unhappy because they were shorter than others, some because they were slower, some few felt -- however illogically -- that they were not as attractive as other people. Some had other physical and psychological difficulties. Most of these individuals entered space explorational activities, where, from the hot side of Mercury to the cold wastes beyond Pluto, they made their peace with life. Even today, with teleportation common throughout the galaxy, there is adventure to be had by those who desire it. Perhaps one of you will have the honor of bringing life to a hitherto uninhabitable planet! And if you should, remember to be grateful to Halvor, who made it possible. It wasn't necessary in Halvor's time -- just as it isn't now -- for anyone to have to do anything. When the joyous Coming of Age ceremony -- marking the end of his stay at the children's house -- ended in a final week of songs and dances. Halvor decided to go and live with his parents. His father and mother understood Halvor's problems quite well. They had visited him even more often than the customary four times a week, trying to reach and comfort the tortured spirit of their strange, self-centered child. They loved him, and he seemed to respond to their affection, but they admitted in later years that they were always more at ease in the presence of their other children. So, while most of Halvor's age group companions were establishing homes of their own, going off on the individual world tours which are always more exciting than the group voyages of childhood, settling down in some Higher-Learning community for further study, or in other ways finding their place in the adult world, Halvor himself moved into a room in his parents' home. He brought with him a few of his favorite microfilms, a three-dim of his particular Coming of Age ceremony, and enough clotting salve to last for quite a while. After Halvor had been living with them for almost two months, his parents, extremely troubled, went before the community leaders. They were no longer sure they were behaving properly toward him, and sought instruction. It appeared that in all the time since he had come to their house, Halvor had never once gone out with them to a nightly forest concert or an afternoon of games. He kept to his room, rereading his microfilms and occasionally ordering new ones from the community library. The librarians had noted, with some surprise, that he invariably requested fiction that dealt with the warlike experiences of people in barbaric times -- works like The Three Musketeers, Caesar's Gallic Wars, The Boy Allies, and others. He left his room only at meal times and, after eating whatever his mother or father had ordered chuted from Central Kitchens, he returned to his microfilms. Any' questions put to him were answered in monosyllables. The only time he had ever started a conversation was one evening at supper when he asked his father what he thought Hannibal of Carthage must have been like. Startled, Halvor's father said he imagined Hannibal must have been a very unhappy man. Halvor, his father reported had grimaced and turned back to his food. At no period did Halvor indicate any interest in the local atomic power plant where his father, as senior technician, spent about fifteen hours a week. Nor did he ever ask to visit the underground hydroponics garden where his mother worked. This fact particularly disturbed the community leaders because children who develop no interest in any profession while in the children's house, from birth to their Coming of Age, generally tend to follow the occupation of one or the other of their parents upon their departure. Sometimes his former groupmates would contact him on the telecom, asking if Halvor would care to join them in sonic voyage being planned, or if hr cared to attend get-togethers of those of their age group who were presently living in the community. Halvor always curtly refused. One of the girls from the group called up, explaining that she had built a small cottage on the shore of a nearby lake. She had an interesting job in Central Kitchens, working about ten hours a week, but she was lonely. Would Halvor care to come and live with her? They had not been close friends in the children's house, but she had always admired his dark, quiet attractiveness. Furthermore, she herself had been bom color blind and would therefore be able to sympathize with, and adjust to, Halvor's affliction. Halvor switched the telecom off while she was still talking. children's house -- who was present at the meeting -- heard this last item, she offered her resignation, claiming that Halvor's behaviour indicated her unfitness for her position. The community leaders, after some deliberation, refused to accept her resignation. Halvor's failure to adapt to the culture was a group responsibility, not any one individual's, they decided. They were discussing tjie advisability of calling a world meeting and submitting the problem of Halvor's unhappiness to it, when they heard the sound of someone coming up the forest path toward their meeting place. Politely, they stopped talking and waited for the person to come into view. The bushes parted, and Halvor stepped into the sunny glade. For a long moment Halvor stood motionless, arms folded, surveying the sprawled bodies of the dozen adults before him. Then, his lip curling in a grimace none of the others could understand, he began to speak in his high-pitched, determined voice. "I have come before you," Halvor said, "because, technically speaking, you are the leaders of the community in which I had the misfortune to be born. Actually, you are all quite powerless. You can order no one to do anything; you may merely suggest. You have no center of government, no appurtenances of authority. And in that sense, you really do represent something -- the abysmal depths of man's last decadence! "What one of you -- or of all latter-day mankind -- is fit to lick the boots of those brawling humans of the past who knew how to fight, to weep -- to die! Who, on this entire miserable planet, would have any idea of how to behave if some race should sweep in from the stars to enslave us? "Fortunately, I have not been overwhelmed by the enervating philosophy which suffocates the world. I am not in a class with the greats of the heroic eras, but there is no one else in the world today to do the work that must be done. I demand, for the sake of humanity's future, that you recognize me as your leader, and that you follow me in the glorious task of awakening all mankind!" There was a pause when Halvor had finished speaking. Though few present had any idea of the meaning of Halvor's words, they nodded thoughtfully, as if they had been merely listening to an outline for a proposed series of concerts. This would require discussion, but obviously not in Halvor's presence. The director of the local hydroponics garden was the first to speak. "Halvor," he asked, "is this what you require to make you happy?" Halvor frowned. "It is not a question," he said carefully, "of my happiness, but of the salvation of mankind." The director nodded, as if his query had been satisfactorily answered. A quick glance -- no more than the flicker of a troubled eyebrow -- passed between the men and women on the grass. "Halvor," said the director of the children's house, "we can't give you an answer immediately." She went on hurriedly, repressing with great difficulty her impulse to listen politely when she saw Halvor's mouth begin to open. "We realize how impatient you are to get on with the work you've outlined, but you must remember that this is a situation without precedent in our lives. We must have time to discuss it." Halvor looked up at the noon sun. "I'll be back in an hour," he announced. Turning on his heel, he strode into the forest, his thin shoulders thrown back, and his pale back held stiffly erect. The first few moments after Halvor's departure the community leaders spent soothing the grief of Halvor's parents. It was pointed out to them that they were no more responsible for Halvor's state of mind than the rest of the people of the Earth. The Chief Librarian put it most succinctly: "Let us once and for all realize that to the communal ignorance of humanity belongs the blame, and to no individual or group of individuals. Our problem now is to fit Halvor into the world, or -- at least in his eyes -- to fit the world to him!" It was on this point that the discussion proceeded. The talk was leisurely, as is the custom, but they kept within Halvor's time limit. Finally, the director of the local Central Kitchens summed things up. "Why should we not grant Halvor his wish? If a man demanded payment in ancient money for his work, or a woman requested clothes to wear, would we not try to satisfy them? Halvor longs for the meaningless trappings of a past that seems more pleasant to him than his own present. Very well. Surely our society is flexible enough to encompass an individual who wishes to call himself world leader. We should notify the other communities, of course, but I think that all will agree with our decision to grant Halvor his desire." No one dissented, and the Communications Director announced that he would contact the rest of the world that very night. Just before Halvor re-entered the glade, the Health Director commented, frowning, "Still, I wish that the old sciences of mental disorders had not been so thoroughly neglected in the past century." Turning to the Chief Librarian, he continued, "I'd appreciate all the books on the subject you can round up..." When Halvor stood before them. waiting impassively, but with burning eyes, the director of the power plant rose to his feet. He remembered dimly from his childhood readings that among some ancient peoples this was considered a sign of respect. "We're going to grant your request, Halvor," the director told him solemnly. "In our eyes, henceforth, you are to be considered the -- ruler, is it? -- of the world, and are to be given all honors accruing to that position. Furthermore, we'll notify the rest of the world of our decision and the reasons for it. There will be community meetings, here and in all other settlements on the globe, but I am quite sure they'll all end as ours did today. Do you have any other requests to make?" Halvor stared at the director and. for a moment, all present could see how young and defenceless Halvor was. Then his jaw hardened and his voice, when he answered, was without emotion. "I will have many instructions for you in a few days -- be sure of that. At the moment, let me congratulate you for showing an amount of wisdom I did not think humans capable of in this degenerate age. And from now on, you are to address me as 'Your Magnificence' and you are to refer to me as, 'Halvor the Omnipotent'!" plant was correct, of course. Meetings were held all over the world. For days afterward, Halvor's novel request was the subject of conversation at breakfast tables, sports fields, laboratories, concerts, and wherever else people gathered. Community decisions accumulated slowly. But at the end of a week it was clear that the people of Earth were in agreement. Halvor the Omnipotent was the accepted ruler of all humanity. His first demands were modest. He wanted a tight-fitting suit of black, a swirling cape, a plumed helmet, and knee-length leather boots. You will find illustrations of these items -- or similar ones -- in your copy of Humanity Covers Himself: From Animal Skins to Coal Derivatives. The clothes were manufactured for him by one of the winterweather textile factories who, as you know, also make costumes for drama groups. They exercised considerable ingenuity, making garments sturdy enough to protect the wearer from the minor cuts and bruises that were so dangerous. Halvor also demanded, and received, a grav-car for his personal use. He requested that it be painted black and that the figure of a golden sword be drawn on the side, near the door. In barbaric days, symbols were used to represent groupings of people, popular philosophies and abstract ideas. A few of them still remain with us. You are probably all familiar with the mathematical symbol for infinity. When all of these demands had been met, Halvor donned his new coverings and, with an adequate supply of clotting salve, set out in his grav-car for what he termed his "triumphal tour of his worldly domains." All went well for Halvor in the beginning. In whatever part of the world Halvor landed, large crowds gathered to greet him. Usually, he preferred to come down on some low hilltop surrounded by flat, treeless meadowland. Word of his arrival would spread, as Halvor stood erect and unsmiling -- arms folded, legs outspread -- beside his black gravcar. The local children's houses would empty; kitchens, syntheticmeat mills, power plants, hydroponic gardens, higher-learning centers, libraries, play groups -- all would shut down, or be maintained by a bare skeleton crew, as men, women and children flocked to see the ruler of the world. It was not merely politeness that drew them, nor their natural desire to make Halvor happy, but also a certain curiosity about this young man who had announced his preference for barbarism in such a marked manner. His odd garb intrigued them, and his speeches, on these occasions, were always entertaining. When it was learned that Halvor enjoyed delivering barbarically heroic -- if intellectually quite meaningless -- lectures, many individuals delved into ancient history, memorizing the proper crowd-responses. This was done at first simply to please Halvor, but soon many individuals found the competition of trying to discover the most interesting or obscure crowdresponse as amusing as some find poetry-writing contests or feats of athletic skill. Many of Halvor's speeches were recorded, of course, and have been of great interest to later students. Here is a transcript of one of the shorter, but typical, ones: "Fellow humans! Worthy subjects! (said Halvor) Gazing out upon your humble, earnest faces, I take heart. Humanity is not lost. There is yet hope that I may lead you back to the glorious days of manly strife and noble suffering!" "Vive le roil " "For suffering is ennobling. I know you have been taught to avoid pain and hardship, to protect others, that the proper aim of mankind is to turn the earth into the green, insipid parkland that it is. A place where all may eat, all may love, study, play, work, sleep -- with never a fear for tomorrow! I ask you -- are we humans or butterflies?" "Hoo-raw!" "Remember the Maine!' # "See what has happened to the world -- what I am saving you from. Two hundred years ago, mankind counting the settlers on the other planets, there are barely seven hunthose foul teachings -- which I in my might am destroying -- will snivel that so-called intelligent limiting of the population has helped create comfort and plenty for all! I say, Humanity is dying out!" "Eee-ya-hooo!" "If I had not come along, in a bare century mankind would have gone the way of the dinosaur! In one fifty-year period, before the rise of our decadent, slothful culture, a thousand weapons were invented ; tremendous edifices -- monuments to the mightiness of man -- towered in the sky. We have invented no weapons. In the short space of two hundreds years, we have forgotten how to use the old ones! We grovel in tiny huts set in the wilderness not, as you are taught to believe, because the simple life is healthier and pleasanter, but because we lack the ability to build cities!" "For king and country, laddie!" "Arise, ye prisoners of starvation!" "A moi, A moi!" "We must forget the vicious concept of 'labor for the sake of greater leisure'. So much has been left undone in the age of idleness, now happily past, that a time of strenuous, back-breaking endeavor is in store for all of us. But it will be well worth it, my people! For in this time to come -- " "Howdah!" "Vino amo da!" "For in this time to come, mankind shall yet find himself! We shall rebuild the cities, taller and more glorious than before! And not only on Earth, but on every planet in the system!" "Smrt fasisma!" "The factories will rise once more. We shall produce not just enough for our needs, but enough to trade for all the wealth of the galaxy. And we will build' the ships that will take us there in overwhelming force! And we shall build weapons, not only to protect ourselves against enemy races, but to build an empire in the stars! For it is written in the old books that the very stars are our heritage!" "Hola!" "Fifty-four forty or fight!" "And we shall breed children. Not just enough to populate the Earth and the planets around our sun, but enough to crowd the cosmos! Strong, healthy, determined young men and women, fearless, and ready to take their rightful place in space. And mankind triumphant, under my leadership, shall rise to new heights of nobility, so that future generations shall look back on us, not with shame, but with pride and envy!" "Kinder, kuche, kirche!" "Tippecanoe and Tyler too!" "Y'chi hedad, hedad, hedad!" "Three rousers for the Iron Duke!" "Sieg heil! Sieg heil! Sieg heil!" Then, of course, after the speech was over, everyone would gaily wave good-by to Halvor, and go home to supper. Many would call out to Halvor to be sure to come their way again, for his speeches made interesting topics of conversation at forest festivals, and were certainly an amusing break in the normal routine of life. continued around the world, making such speeches, often at the rate of three or four a day. Then, suddenly, he returned home. He did not visit his parents or any of his old friends, but brought his grav-car down outside the modest cottage of the Communications Director. He strode into the house and demanded brusquely that all the community leaders be summoned at once. Concerned, the director set out for their homes. The director's wife offered Halvor refreshments, but he refused curtly. She reported later that, until the arrival of the leaders, Halvor spent his time pacing restlessly up and down, clenching his fists, slapping his thigh, and muttering thickly under his breath. Naturally, since he was not speaking to her, she tried not to listen, but she could not avoid overhearing a few words. They were disconnected, consisting mostly of phrases like: "Hopeless, hopeless... no contact possible... can't make them understand... have to show..." When the community leaders finally arrived, Halvor avoided all the usual formalities of greeting, and came immediately to the point. "I have decided," announced Halvor, "that humanity is more enfeebled than even I had thought. Words -- exhortations -- are not enough. Something much more graphic is required, both to point out the world the significance of my position, and the differences between this decadent society and heroic ones of the past. I want a palace. I shall submit specifications, and you people will construct it as soon as possible." The meeting that followed Halvor's request was one of the stormiest in the community's history. Twice, speakers were interrupted before they had finished and, even after a decision had been agreed upon, the Health Director confessed reluctantly that he was not satisfied that it was the best possible decision. But Halvor was to have his palace. The major objection put forth by the Health Director was that every attempt to satisfy Halvor, by agreeing to his demands, resulted only in his being more unhappy. Perhaps, the director suggested, a way might yet be found to integrate Halvor into the existing world, rather than to allow him to construct an unbelievable dream-world. However, the meeting refused to even consider the idea of not granting an individual his desires, whatever form they took. And the statement of the Construction Director that he and his group were looking forward to the problems of Ilalvor's palace with some interest clinched the matter. Halvor's specifications, when submitted, were not too complete. They consisted mostly of illustrations from children's microfilms. Some, in fact, even contained features that were mutally exclusive. The construction group promised to build something as close as possible to Halvor's desires, and in two months the palace was completed. For those two months, Halvor decided against living with his parents and moved into a small cottage which lay alone in a somewhat unattractive part of the local forest. The cottage itself was rather small, having been constructed for a family unit of two, and in Halvor's time the three or four unit family was becoming popular, with even an extra room or two for children who might want to come and stay a while with their parents. into his new palace was marked by a gala festival. People came from all over the world to participate in the event, and Halvor made a long speech. Again, all went well for a short time. Halvor stayed in his palace, issuing proclamations. He was rarely lonely. Visitors arrived every day, some to see Halvor, many to view his anachronistic home. The palace still exists, of course, and many of you may have visited it. It is maintained as a memorial of humanity's gratitude to Halvor. The major difficulty arose when Halvor demanded that all who visit him be dressed in special garments of his own design. Most people shrugged and did as he requested. A few, however, commented reasonably that they found clothes unpleasant and uncomfortable and refused to wear them. In the second year of Halvor's residence in his palace, matters came to a head. The incident occurred during one of the Health Director's weekly visits. For many months, this man had been trying to gain Halvor's confidence. To some degree, he did succeed. Certainly, Halvor spoke more freely in his presence than in that of any other person. The Health Director afterwards related that he found the youthful ruler of the world sitting alone in his throne room, apparently much distressed. Falling to one knee, in accordance with Halvor's palace protocol, the Health Director asked, "Your Omnipotence, are you unwell?" Halvor made a gesture of disgust. "Why doesn't the world listen to me?" he demanded angrily, sitting upright on his throne. The Health Director climbed to his feet and considered the question. For a moment, he admitted later, he was tempted to lie. For those of you who are unfamiliar with the term, lying is the giving of incorrect information, knowingly and purposely. The Director was afraid the truth might be painful to Halvor. But telling lies, while a frequent practice in barbaric times, is an extremely difficult thing for us to do. It goes against the basic fabric of our culture. Even back in the days of Halvor, lying was already considered an uncomfortable, irrational act, and the Health Director could not bring himself to do it. "They listen. Your Omnipotence," he said hesitantly, "but they'll never change to suit your ideas." "Why!" "Because they're happy. Man has personal, individual peace and security, and that's what he wants -- all he ever wanted." "But he's dead!" Halvor groaned. "Can't you see it? The aimless, uneventful -- meaningless -- pattern of life in the civilization!" The Health Director shook his head. "What has meaning for a man, Your Omnipotence? Where is this -- purpose -- you talk of, inscribed? A man is born, lives his years, and dies. As a baby, he has only two basic needs -- food, and affection. And through the rest of his life he searches continually for those same two things. 