He had to have more money. Perhaps he could not afford the luxury of leaving the wine bottle longer upon the shelf... Riverside Club, where Hyrel arrived by bus and a hundred yards of walking, was exclusive. It catered to a clientele that had but three things in common: money, a desire for utter self-abandonment, and a sales slip indicating ownership of a telporter suit. The club was of necessity expensive, for selftelportation was strictly illegal, and police protection came high. Herbert Hyrel adjusted his white, silken mask carefully at the door and shoved his sales slip through a small aperture where it was thoroughly scanned by unseen eyes. A buzzer sounded an instant later, the lock on the door clicked, and Hyrel pushed through into the exhilarating warmth of music and laughter. The main room was large. Hidden lights along the walls sent slow green, yellow and pink trailing across the domed ceiling in a heterogeneous pattern. The colored beams mingled, diffused, spread, were caught up by mirrors of various tints which diffused and mingled the lights once more until the whole effect was an ever-changing panorama of softly-melting shades. The gay and bizarre costumes of the masked revelers on the dance floor and at the tables, unearthly in themselves, were made even more so by the altering light. Music flooded the room from unseen sources. Laughter -- hysterical, drunken, filled with utter abandonment -- came from the dance floor, the tables, and the private booths and rooms hidden cleverly within the walls. Hyrel pushed himself to an unoccupied table, sat down and ordered a bottle of cheap whiskey. He would have preferred champagne, but his depleted finances forbade the more discriminate taste. When his order arrived, he poured a glass tumbler half full and consumed it eagerly while his eyes scanned the room in search of the girl. He couldn't see her in the dim swirl of color. Had she arrived? Perhaps she was wearing a different costume than shs had the night before. If so, recognition might prove difficult. ' He poured himself another drink, promising himself he would go in search of her when the liquor began to take effect. A woman clad in the revealing garb of a Persian dancer threw an arm about him from behind and kissed him on the cheek through the veil which covered the lower part of her face. "Hi, honey," she giggled into his ear. "Havin' a time?" He reached for the white arm to pull her to him, but she eluded his grasp and reeled away into the waiting arms of a tall toreador. Hyrel gulped his whiskey and watched her nestle into the arms of her partner and begin with him a sinuous, suggestive dance. The whiskey had begun its warming effect, and he laughed. This was the land of the lotus eaters, the sanctuary of the escapists, the haven of all who wished to cast off their shell of inhibition and become the thing they dreamed themselves to be. Here one could be among his own kind, an actor upon a gay stage, a gaudy butterfly metamorphosed from the slug, a knight of old. The Persian dancing girl was probably the wife of a boorish oaf whose idea of romance was spending an evening telling his wife how he came to be a successful bank president. But she had found her means of escape. Perhaps she had pleaded a sick headache and had retired to her room. And there upon the bed now reposed her shell of reality while her inner self, the shadowy one, completely materialized, became an exotic thing from the East in this never-never land. The man, the toreador, had probably closeted himself within his library with a set of account books and had left strict orders not to be disturbed until he had finished with them. Both would have terrific hangovers in the morning. But that, of course, would be fully compensated for by the memories of the evening. Plyrel chuckled. The situation struck him as being funny: the shadowy self got drunk and had a good time, and the outer husk suffered the hangover in the morning. Strange. Strange how a device such as the telporter suit could cause the shadow of each bodily cell to leave the body, materialize, and become a reality in its own right. And yet... left hand. There was a long, irregular scar there. It was the result of a cut he had received nearly three weeks ago when he had fallen over this very table and had rammed his hand into a sliver of broken champagne glass. Later that evening, upon re-telporting back home, the pain of the cut had remained in his hand, but there was no sign of the cut itself on the hand of his outer self. The scar was peculiar to the shadowy body only. There was something about the shadowy body that carried the hurts to the outer body, but not the scars... Sudden laughter broke out near him, and he turned quickly in that direction. A group of gaily costumed revelers was standing in a semi-circle about a small mound of clothing upon the floor. It was the costume of the toreador. Hyrel laughed, too. It had happened many times before -- a costume suddenly left empty as its owner, due to a threat of discovery at home, had had to press the switch in haste to bring his shadowy self -- and complete consciousness -- back to his outer self in a hurry. A waiter picked up the clothing. He would put it safely away so that the owner could claim it upon his next visit to the club. Another waiter placed a fresh bottle of whiskey on the table before Hyrel, and Hyrel paid him for it. The whiskey, reaching his head now in surges of warm cheerfulment, courage, and a desire for merriment. He pushed himself up from the table, joined the merry throng, threw his arm about the Persian dancer, drew her close. They began dancing slowly to the throbbing rhythm, dancing and holding on to each other tightly. Hyrel could feel her hot breath through her veil upon his neck, adding to the headiness of the liquor. His feeling of depression and inferiority flowed suddenly from him. Once again he was the all-conquering male. His arm trembled as it drew her still closer to him and he began dancing directly and purposefully toward the shadows of a clump of artificial palms near one comer of the room. There was an exit to the garden behind the palms. Half way there they passed a secluded booth from which protruded a long leg clad in black mesh stocking. Hyrel paused as he recognized that part of the costume. It was she! The girl! The one he had met so briefly the night before! His arm slid away from the Persian dancer, took hold of the meshclad leg, and pulled. A female form followed the leg from the booth and fell into his arms. He held her tightly, kissed her white neck, let her perfume send his thoughts reeling. "Been looking for me, honey?" she whispered, her voice deep and throaty. "You know it!" He began whisking her away toward the palms. The Persian girl was pulled into the booth. Yes, she was wearing the same costume she had worn the night before, that of a can-can dancer of the #'s. The mesh hose that encased her shapely legs were held up by flowered supporters in such a manner as to leave four inches of white leg exposed between hose top and lacy panties. Her skirt, frilled to suggest innumerable petticoats, fell away at each hip, leaving the front open to expose the full length of legs. She wore a wig of platinum hair encrusted with jewels that sparkled in the lights. Her jewelstudded mask was as white as her hair and covered the upper half of her face, except for the large almond slits for her eyes. A white purse, jewel crusted, dangled from one arm. He stopped once before reaching the palms, drew her closer, kissed her long and ardently. Then he began pulling her on again. She drew back when they reached the shelter of the fronds. "Champagne, first," she whispered huskily into his ear. His heart sank. He had very little money left. Well, it might buy a cheap brand... slowly and provocatively across the table from him. Her eyes sparkled behind the almond slits of her mask, caught the color changes and cast them back. She was wearing contact lenses of a garish green. He wished she would hurry with her drink. He had horrible visions of his wife at home taking off her telovis and coming to his chair. He would then have to press the switch that would jerk his shadowy self back along its invisible connecting cord, jerk him back and leave but a small mound of clothes upon the chair at the table. Deep depression laid hold of him. He would not be able to see her after tonight until he received his monthly dole two weeks hence. She wouldn't wait that long. Someone else would have her. Unless... Yes, he knew now that he was going to kill his wife as soon as the opportunity presented itself. It would be a simple matter. With the aid of the telporter suit, he could establish an iron-clad alibi. He took a long drink of whiskey and looked at the dancers about him. Sight of their gay costumes heightened his depression. He was wearing a cheap suit of satin, all he could afford. But some day soon he would show them! Some time soon he would be dressed as gaily... "Something troubling you, honey?" His gaze shot back to her and she blurred slightly before his eyes. "No. Nothing at all!" He summoned a sickly smile and clutched her hand in his. "Come on. Let's dance." He drew her from the chair and into his arms. She melted toward him as if desiring to become a part of him. A tremor of excitement surged through him and threatened to turn his knees into quivering jelly. He could not make his feet conform to the flooding rhythm of the music. He half stumbled, half pushed her along past the booths. In the shelter of the palms he drew her savagely to him. "Let's -- let's go outside." His voice was little more than a croak. "But, honey!" She pushed herself away, her low voice maddening him. "Don't you have a private room? A girl doesn't like to be taken outside..." Her words bit into his brain like the blade of a hot knife. No, he didn't have a private room at the club like the others. A private room for his telporter receiver, a private room where he couldn't afford it! No! No! NO! His lot was a cheap suit of satin! Cheap whiskey! Cheap champagne! A cheap shack by the river... An inarticulate cry escaped his twisted lips. He clutched her roughly to him and dragged her through the door and into the moonlight, whiskey and anger lending him brutal strength. He pulled her through the deserted garden. All the others had private rooms! He pulled her to the far end, behind a clump of squatty firs. His hands clawed at her. He tried to smother her mouth with kisses. She eluded him deftly. "But, honey!" Her voice had gone deeper into her throat. "I just want to be sure about things. If you can't afford one of the private rooms -- if you can't afford to show me a good time -- if you can't come here real often... The whiskey pounded and throbbed at his brain like blows from an unseen club. His ego curled and twisted within him like a headless serpent. "I'll have money!" he shouted, struggling to hold her. "I'll have plenty of money! After tonight!" "Then we'll wait," she said. "We'll wait until tomorrow night." "No!" he screamed. "You don't believe me! You're like the others! You think I'm no good! But I'll show you! I'll show all of you!" his arms, unyielding. Madness added to the pounding in his brain. Tears welled into his eyes. "I'll show you! I'll kill her! Then I'll have money!" The hands clutching her shoulders shook her drunkenly. "You wait here! I'll go home and kill her now! Then I'll be back!" "Silly boy!" Her low laughter rang hollowly in his ears. "And just who is it you are going to kill?" "My wife!" he cried. "My wife! I'll..." A sudden sobering thought struck him. He was talking too much. And he wasn't making sense. He shouldn't be telling her this. Anyway, he couldn't get the money tonight even if he did kill his wife. "And so you are going to kill your wife... He blinked the tears from his eyes. His chest was heaving, his heart pounding. He looked at her shimmering form. "Y-yes," he whispered. Her eyes glinted strangely in the light of the moon. Her handbag glinted as she opened it, and something she took from it glittered coldly in her hand. "Fool!" The first shot tore squarely through his heart. And while he stood staring at her, mouth agape, a second shot burned its way through his bewildered brain. moved the telovis from her head and laid it carefully aside. She uncoiled her long legs from beneath her, walked to her husband's chair, and stood for a long moment looking down at him, her lips drawn back in contempt. Then she bent over him and reached down his thigh until her fingers contacted the small switch. Seconds later, a slight tremor sjiook Hyrel's body. His eyes snapped open, air escaped his lungs. his lower jaw sagged inanely, and his head lolled to one side. She stood a moment longer, watching his eyes become glazed and sightless. Then she walked to the telephone. "Police?" she said. "This is Mrs. Herbert Hyrel. Something horrible has happened to my husband. Please come over immediately. Bring a doctor." She hung up, went to her bathroom, stripped off her clothing, and slid carefully out of her telporter suit. This she folded neatly and tucked away into the false back of the medicine cabinet. She found a fresh pair of blue, plastifur pajamas and got into them. She was just arriving back into the living room, tying the cord of her dressing gown about her slim waist, when she heard the sound of the police siren out front. of fine science fiction being published these days, we guarantee that best five short novels of #. An outstandingly complete and convincing examination of an alien planet and its civilization ; a compelling portrait of a highly unusual, and unusually human, hero; a suspenseful development of a complex problem which will leave you with plenty to ponder and argue -- this is the stuff of which classics are made, and it's coming in the September issue (on sale July #). IF is proud of this story; you won't want to miss it! Sound the fanfare! Beat the drums! Shout hosannas! Here he comes ,... By James McKimmey, Jr. The city stretched. Empty The city yawned, streets glistened from the bath of Rows of houses lay like square a water truck. Dew-wet grass ivory beads on patches of green winked at the fresh peeping sun, felt. A boy drove his bicycle down enue, whistling loudly, while tightly rolled newspapers arced from his hand and slapped against porches, Lights snapped on in a thousand windows, shining yellowly against the cool whiteness of dawn. Men blinked and touched beard-stubbled chins. Women moved sleepily toward porcelain and chrome kitchens. A truck roared and garbage pails rattled. There was a smell of sour orange rinds and wet leaves and unfolding flowers. Over this came the smell of toasting bread and frying bacon. Doors swung open, slippered feet padded across porches and hands groped for the rolled newspapers. The air was stricken with the blaring sound of transcribed music and the excited voices of commercial announcers. The doors swung shut and the sounds were muted. stretched and scratched. The sun rose above the horizon. Celebrity day. D oors slammed again, and half-consumed cups of coffee lay cooling behind. Children wiped at sleepy eyes and mothers swept crumbs, touching self-conscious fingers at their own bed-ruffled hair. Laborers and clerks and lawyers and doctors strode down sidewalks and climbed into automobiles and busses and sleek-nosed elevated trains. The city moved. To the center of the city, where the tall buildings stretched to the lighting sky, came the horde, like thousands of ants toward a comb of honey. Wheels sang and whined. Horns blasted. Whistles blew. And waiting, strung above the wide streets between the cold marquees and the dead neon tubes, were the banners and the flags and the bunting. The air warmed and the sun brightened. Voices chattered. Elbows nudged. Mouths smiled, teeth shone, and there was the sound of laughter, rising over the pushing throngs. The city was happy. The bunting dipped and the banners fluttered and the flags whipped. At the edge of the city, the airport tightened itself. Waiting, waiting for the silver and blue rocket. The rocket of the Celebrity. A large hotel, towering above the pulsing streets, began the quiver of activity. As though a great electric current had been run through its cubes and shafts and hollows, the hotel crackled. Desk clerks clicked bells and bell boys hopped. Elevators rose and fell. In the cellar, wine bottles were dusted by quick, nervous hands. In the kitchen, a towering cake was frosted and decorated. Orders cracked. Hands flew and feet chattered against tile. In one rich expansive suite a giant hoop of multi-colored flowers was placed in the center of a room. It was in the air. Laughter, awe, worship, excitement! Ropes went up and stretched between lamp posts. Blue-coated men on horses began blocking streets. Old women with wooden boxes, children with flashing eyes, men in rich suits and tattered suits began Curbs became lined with people. Bars threw open doors and fresh air met stale air. Men with fat faces, thin faces, white faces, red faces, twitching with the anticipation of holiday freedom, gulped jiggers of raw whiskey and shuddered happily. Children giggled and yelled and sprinted in crazy zig-zags. Men in white caps hustled in front of the lined curbs, shouting, carrying their boxes of ice-cream. Men with buttons, men with pennants, men with balloons joined the shouting, and the sound rose in the air and the city smiled and shifted and its heart pounded. The hotel whirred inside itself. The airport tensed and searched the sky. ing throngs jammed the sidewalks, raising their strengthening sound between the tall buildings. Windows popped open and faces beamed. Tentative showers of confetti drifted down through the air. The city waited, its pulse thumping. The rocket was a black point in the sky. It grew. White-suited men scattered over the landing strip. Photographers crouched. Bulbs snapped into reflectors. Cameras pointed. The rocket landed. A door snapped open. Blue uniforms converged and flash bulbs popped. There were shouts and orders and men running. Gates swung and there was a blue-rimmed movement to a black open car. Sirens moaned, screamed. And the black car was moving swiftly into the city. Beneath the buildings, marching bands in red and blue and yellow uniforms stood assembled. Girls in short skirts and tassled hats spun silver batons into the warm air. Bare legs kicked. Black boots flashed. The crowd swayed against the ropes, and there was laughter and sweating and squinting. The black car reached the heart of the city. Sirens died. Rows of men snapped to attention. Policemen aligned their motorcycles. A baton shimmered high against the sun and came down. A cymbal crashed. Drums cracked. Music blared. And there was a movement down the street. The black car rolled along, while tape swept down from the buildings in long swirling ribbons. There was a snow of confetti. And from the throats of the people came the first roar. It grew, building, building in volume, and the city thundered its welcome to the man sitting upon the back of the open car, the small man who tipped his hat and smiled and blinked behind his glasses: Joseph S. Stettison, B.A., B.S., M.S., M.D., Ph.D., L.M. (Hon.), F.R.C.O.G. C.I.B. Agent Pell used his head, even if he did rely on hunches more than on the computer. In fact, when the game got rough, he found that to use his head, he first had to keep it , Brink of By Walt Sheldon T he night the visitors came Richard Pell worked late among the great banks of criminological computers. He whistled to himself, knowing that he was way off key but not caring. Ciel, his wife, was still in his mind's eye; he'd seen her on the viewer and talked with her not ten minutes ago. "Be home shortly, baby," he'd said, "soon as I fill in a form or two." "All right, dear. I'll wait," she'd answered, with just the slightest tone of doubt. It was an important night. It was at once their second anniversary and the beginning of their second honeymoon. Just how Pell -- knobby, more or less homely, and easygoing -- had won himself a lovely, long-limbed blonde like Ciel was something of a mystery to many of their friends. She could hardly have married him for his money. Central Investigation Bureau agents were lucky if all their extras and bonuses brought them up to a thousand credits a year. Pell had unquestionably caught her in a romantic moment. Maybe that was part of the trouble -- part of the reason they needed this second honeymoon, this period of reacquaintance so badly. Being the wife of a C.I.B. agent meant sitting at home nine-tenths of the time while he was working on a case, and then not hearing about the case for security reasons during the onetenth of the time he was with her. Four times now Pell had been ready to take his vacation; four times last minute business had come up. No more, though, by golly. Tonight he'd get out of here just as quickly as... The Identifier, beyond the door, began to hum. That meant somebody was putting his hand to the opaque screen, and if the scanner recognized the fingerprints the door would open. Pell scowled at the bulky shadows outside. "Go away, whoever you are," he muttered to himself. Some of the other agents were out there, no doubt; they were always getting sudden inspirations late at night and returning to use the computers again. In fact, it had been tactifully suggested to Agent Richard Pell that he might use the computers a little more himself instead of relying on hunches as he so often did. "Investigation's a cold science, not a fancy art," Chief Larkin was fond of saying to the group -- with his eyes on Pell. Well, whoever it was. Pell was definitely through. No time-wasting conversation for him! He was ready for six glorious weeks of saved-up vacation time. He and Ciel, early tomorrow, would grab a rocket for one of the Moon resorts, and there they'd just loaf and relax and pay attention to each other. Try to regain whatever it was they'd had... T he door opened and Chief Larkin walked in. Chief Eustace J. Larkin was tall, in his forties, bu still boyishly handsome. He dressed expensively and well. He was dynamic and confident and he always had about him just the faintest aroma of very expensive shaving cologne. He had a Master's degree in criminology and his rise to the post of Director, C.I.B., had been sudden, dramatic and impressive. Not the least of his talents was a keen sense of public relations. "I -- uh -- was on my way out," said Pell. He reached for his hat. Funny about hats: few people traveled topside anymore, and in the climate-conditioned tunnels you didn't need a hat. But C.I.B. agents had to be neat and dignified; regulations required hats and ties and cuffs and lapels. Thus, you could always spot a C.I.B. agent a mile away. Larkin had a dimple when he smiled and Pell would bet he knew it. "We'd have called your home if we hadn't found you here. Sit down, Dick." Pell sat glumly. For the first time, he noticed the men who had come in with the Chief. He recognized both. One was fiftyish, tall, solidly-built and well-dressed on the conservative side. His face was strong, square and oddly pale, as if someone had taken finest white marble and roughly hacked a face into it. Pell had seen that face in faxpapers often. The man was Theodor Rysland, once a wealthy corporation lawyer, now a World Government adviser in an unofficial way. Some admired him as a selfless public servant; others swore he was a power-mad tyrant. Few were indifferent. "I'm sure you recognize Mr. Rysland," said Chief Larkin, smiling. "And this is Dr. Walter Nebel, of the World Department of Education." Dr. Walter Nebel was slight and had a head remarkably tiny in proportion to the rest of him. He wore cropped hair. His eyes were turtlelidded and at first impression sleepy, and then, with a second look --  wary. Pell remembered that he had won fame some time ago by discovering the electrolytic enzyme in the thought process. Pell wasn't sure exactly what this was, but the faxpapers had certainly made a fuss about it at the time. He shook hands with the two men and then said to Larkin, "What's up?" "Patience," said Larkin and shuffled chairs into place. Rysland sat down solidly and gravely; Nebel perched. Rysland looked at Pell with a strong, level stare and said, "It's my sincere hope that this meeting tonight will prevent resumption of the war with Venus." Larkin said, "Amen." Pell stared back in some surprise. High-level stuff! Rysland saw his stare and chuckled. "Chief Larkin tells me your sympathies are more or less Universalist. Not that it would be necessary, but it helps." "Oh," said Pell, with mild bewilderment. The difference between the Universal and Defense parties was pretty clear-cut. The Universalists hoped to resume full relations with Venus and bring about a really secure peace through friendship and trade. It would admittedly be a tough struggle, and the Defenders didn't think it was possible. Forget Venus, said they; fortify Earth, keep the line of demarcation on Mars, and sit tight. "But there is, as you may know," said Rysland, "a third course in our relations with Venus." "There is?" asked Pell. From the corner of his eye he saw Chief Larkin looking at him with an expression of -- what, amusement? Yes, amusement, largely, but with a touch of contempt, too, perhaps. Hard to say. "The third course," said Rysland, not smiling, "would be to attack Venus again, resume the war, and hope to win quickly. We know Venus is exhausted from the recent struggle. A sudden, forceful attack might possibly subjugate her. At least, that is the argument of a certain group called the Supremists." Dr. Nebel spoke for the first time. Pell realized that the man had been watching him closely. His voice was sibilant ; it seemed to drag itself through wet grass. "Also Venus Is psychologically unprepared for war; the Supremists believe that, too." Pell reached back into his memory. The Supremists. They were a minor political party -- sort of a cult, too. The outfit had sprung up in the last year or so. Supremists believed that Earthmen, above all other creatures, had a destiny -- were chosen -- were supreme. They had several followers as delegates in World Congress. General impression: slightly crackpot. "The Supremists," said Theodor Rysland, tapping his hard, white palm, and leaning forward, "have been calling for attack. Aggression. Starting the war with Venus all over again. And they're not only a vociferous nuisance. They have an appeal in this business of Earthman's supremacy. They're gaining converts every day. In short, they've now become dangerous." Rysland talked. Certainly the idea of renewed war was nightmarish. He'd been in the last one: who hadn't? It had started in #, the year he was born, and it had dragged on for twenty-five years until T-day and the truce. The causes? Well, both Earth and Venus worked the mineral deposits on Mars unimpeded by the non-intelligent insectile life on that planet, and the original arguments had been about those mineral deposits, though there were enough for a dozen planets there. The causes were more complicated and obscure than that. Semantics, partly. There was freedom as Earthmen saw it and freedom as the Venusians saw it. Same with honor and good and evil. They were always two different things. And then Venusians had a greenish tinge to their skins and called the Earthmen, in their clicking language, "Pink-faces." And both Earthmen and Venusians hated like the devil to see the other get away with anything. Anyway, there had been war, terrible war. Space battle, air battle, landing, repulse. Stalemate. Finally, through utter weariness perhaps, truce. Now, a taut, uneasy, suspicious peace. Communications opened, a few art objects mutually exchanged. Immigration for a few Venusian dancers or students or diplomats. It wasn't much, but it was all in the right direction. At least Pell felt so. Rysland was saying: "We're not sure, of course, but we suspect -- we jeel -- that more than mere accident may be behind these Supremists." "What do you mean by that?" "Someone seeking power, perhaps. As I said, we don't know. We want to find out. Dr. Nebel has been interested for some time in the curious psychology of these Supremists -- their blind, unthinking loyalty to their cause, for instance. He is, as you know, a special assistant in the Department of Education. He asked my help in arranging for an investigation, and I agreed with him wholeheartedly that one should be made." "And I told these gentlemen," said Chief Larkin, "that I'd put a detail on it right away." Now Pell believed he saw through it. Larkin didn't believe it was important at all; he was just obliging these Vips. A man couldn't have too many friends in World Government circles, after all. But of course Larkin couldn't afford to put one of his bright, machineminded boys on it, and so Pell was the patsy. "Could I remind you," said Pell, "that my vacation is supposed to start tomorrow?" "Now, now, Dick," said Larkin, turning on the personality, "this won't take you long. Just a routine report. The computers ought to give you all the information you need in less than a day." "That's what you always say, every time I'm ready to take a vacation. I've been saving up for two years now... "Dick, that's hardly the right attitude for an agent who is so close to making second grade." Larkin had him over a barrel, there. Pell desperately wanted to make his promotion. Second-graders didn't spend their time at the control banks gathering data; they did mostly desk work and evaluation. They had a little more time to spend with their wives. He said, "Okay, okay," and got up. "Where are you going?" "To get my wife on the viewer and tell her I won't be home for a while after all." He left the three of them chuckling and thought: He jests at scars who never felt a wound. He didn't say it aloud. You could quote formulae or scientific precepts in front of Larkin, but not Shakespeare. number and waited until Ciel's image swirled into the viewplate. His heart went boppety-bop as it always did. Hair of polished gold. Dark eyes, ripe olives, a little large for her face and sometimes deep and fathomless. She wore a loose, filmy nightgown and the suggestion of her body under it was enough to bring on a touch of madness in him. "Let me say it," Ceil said. She wasn't smiling. "You won't be home for a while. You've got another case." "Well -- yes. That's it, more or less." Pell swallowed. "Oh, Dick." "I'm sorry, honey. It's just that something important came up. I've got a conference on my hands. It shouldn't take more than an hour." "And we were supposed to leave for the moon in the morning." "Listen, baby, this is absolutely the last time. I mean it. As soon as this thing is washed up we'll really take that vacation. Look, I'll tell you what. I'll meet you somewhere in an hour. We'll have some fun -- take in a floor show -- drink a little meth. We haven't done that in a long time. How about the Stardust Cafe? I hear they've got a terrific new mentalist there." Ciel said, "No." "Don't be like that. We need an evening out. It'll hold us until I get this new case washed up. That won't be long, but at least we'll have a little relaxation." Ciel said, "Well..." "Attababy. One hour. Absolutely. You just go to Station B-#, take the lift to topside and it's right on Shapley Boulevard there. You can't miss it." "I know where it is," said Ciel. She shook her finger. "Richard Pell, so help me, if you stand me up this time..." "Baby!" he said in a tone of deep injury. "Goodbye, Dick." She clicked off. Pell had the feeling that even the free-flowing meth and the gaiety of the Stardust Cafe wouldn't really help matters much. He sighed deeply as he turned and went back into the other room. Chapter II later he stepped from the elevator kiosk at Station B-# and breathed the night air of topside. It was less pure actually than the carefully controlled tunnel air, but it was somehow infinitely more wonderful. At least to a sentimental primitive boob like Richard Pell, it was. Oh, he knew that it was infinitely more sensible to live and work entirely underground as people did these days -- but just the same he loved the look of the black sky with the crushed diamonds of stars thrown across it and he loved the uneven breeze and the faint smell of trees and grass. This particular topside section was given over to entertainment; all about him were theaters and cafes and picnic groves and airports for flying sports. A few hundred feet ahead he could see the three-dimensional atmospheric projection that marked the Stardust Cafe, and he could hear faintly the mournful sound of a Venusian lament being played by the askarins. He was glad they hadn't banned Venusian music, anyway, although he wouldn't be surprised if they did, some day. That was one of the things these Supremists were trying to do. Rysland and Chief Larkin had given him a long and careful briefing on the outfit so that he could start work tomorrow with his partner, Steve Kronski. Steve, of course, would shrug phlegmatically, swing his big shoulders toward the computer rooms and say, "Let's go to work." It would be just another assignment to him. As a matter of fact, the job would be not without a certain amount of interest. There were a couple of puzzling things about these Supremists that Rysland had pointed out. First of all, they didn't seem to be at all organized or incorporated. No headquarters, no officers that anybody knew about. They just were. It was a complete mystery how a man became a Supremist, how they kept getting new members all the time. Yet you couldn't miss a Supremist whenever you met one. Before the conversation was half over he'd start spouting about the destiny of Earthmen and the general inferiority of all other creatures and so on. It sounded like hogwash to Pell. He wondered how such an attitude could survive in a scientific age. Nor would a Supremist be essentially a moron or a neurotic; they were found in all walks of life, at all educational and emotional levels. Rysland told how he had questioned a few, trying to discover when, where and how they joined the movement; Apparently there was nothing to join, at least to hear them tell it. They just knew one day that they were Supremists, and that was the word. Rysland had shaken his head sadly and said, "Their belief is completely without logic -- and maybe that's what makes it so strong. Maybe that's what frightens me about it." Pell would tackle it. Tomorrow he'd think about it. Right now he had a date with his best girl. He entered the cafe and the music of the askarins swirled more loudly about his head and he looked through the smoke and colored light until he spotted Ciel sitting in a rear booth. The place was crowded. On the small dance floor before the orchestra nearly nude Venusian girls were going through the writhing motions of a serpentine dance. Their greenish skins shimmered iridescently. The sadfaced Venusian musicians on the band-stand waved their graceful, spatulated fingers over thair curious, boxlike askarins, producing changing tones and overtones by the altered capacitance. A rocketman in the black and silver uniform of the Space Force was trying to stumble drunkenly out on to the floor with the dancers and his friends were holding him back. There was much laughter about the whole thing. The Venusian girls kept dancing and didn't change their flat, almost lifeless expressions. Ciel looked up without smiling when he got to the booth. She had a half-finished glass of meth before her... He tried a smile anyway. "Hello, baby." He sat down. She said, "I didn't really think you'd get here. I could have had dates with exactly eleven spacemen. I kept count." "You have been faithful to me, Cynara, in your fashion. I need a drink and don't want to wait for the waitress. Mind?" He took her half glass of meth and tossed it down. He felt the wonderful illusion of an explosion in his skull, and it seemed to him that his body was suddenly the strongest in the world and that he could whip everybody in the joint with one arm tied behind his back. He said, "Wow." Ciel tried a smile now. "It does that to you when you're not used to it." The first effect passed and he felt only the warmth of the drink. He signaled a waitress and ordered a couple more. "Don't forget to remind me to take a hangover pill before I go to work in the morning," he told Ciel. "You -- you are going to work in the morning, then?" "Afraid I can't get out of it." "And the moon trip's off?" "Not off, just postponed. We'll get to it, don't worry." "Dick." "Yes?" "I can take it just so' long, putting our vacation off and off and off." Her eyes were earnest, liquid and opaque. "I've been thinking about it. Trying to arrive at something. I'm beginning to wonder, Dick, if maybe we hadn't just better, well -- call it quits, or something." He stared at her. "Baby, what are you saying?" from the orchestra interrupted. They looked at the dance floor. There was a flash of light, a swirling of jnist, and within the space of a second the Venusian girls suddenly disappeared and their place was taken by a tall. hawk-nosed, dark-eyed man with a cloak slung dramatically over one shoulder. The audience applauded. "That's Marco, the new mentalist," said Pell. Ciel shrugged to show that she wasn't particularly impressed. Neither was Pell, to tell the truth. Mentalists were all the rage, partly because everybody could practice a little amateur telepathy and hypnotism in his own home. Mentalists, of course, made a career of it and were much better at it than anybody else. Their drinks came and they watched Marco go through his act in a rather gloomy silence. Marco was skillful, but not especially unusual. He did the usual stuff; calling out things that people wrote on slips of paper, calling out dates on coins, and even engaging in mental duels wherein the challenger wrote a phrase, concealed it from Marco, and then deliberately tried to keep him from reading it telepathically. He had the usual hypnotism session with volunteers who were certain they could resist. He made them hop around the stage like monkeys, burn their fingers on pieces of ice, and so on. The audience roared with laughter. Pell and Ciel just kept staring. When Marco had finished his act and the thundering applause had faded the Venusian dancing girls came back on the stage again. Ciel yawned. Pell said, "Me, too. Let's get out of here." It wasn't until they were home in their underground apartment and getting ready for bed that Ciel turned to him and said, "You see?" He was buttoning his pajamas. "See what?" "It's us, Dick. It's not the floor show, or the meth, or anything -- it's us. We can't enjoy anything together any more." He said, "Now wait a minute..." But she had already stepped into the bedroom and slammed the door. He heard the lock click. "Hey," he said, "what am I supposed to do, sleep out here?" , He took the ensuing silence to mean that he was. And he did. T he next morning, as he came into the office. Pell scowled deeply and went to his desk without saying good morning to anybody. Ciel had kept herself locked in the bedroom and he had made his own breakfast. How it was all going to end he didn't know. He had the feeling that she was working herself up to the decision to leave him. And the real hell of it was that he couldn't exactly blame her. "Morning, partner," said a voice above him. He looked up. Way up. Steve Kronski was built along the general lines of a water buffalo. The usual battered grin was smeared across his face. "I see we got a new assignment." "Oh -- did Larkin brief you on it already?" "Yeah. Before I could get my hat off. Funny set-up, all right. I punched for basic data before you got in. Hardly any." "Maybe that means something in itself. Maybe somebody saw to it that the information never got into the centralbanksu" Tlie C.I.B. computers could be hooked into the central banks which stored information on nearly everything and everybody. If you incorporated, filed for a patent, paid taxes, voted, or just were born, the central banks had an electronic record of it. Kronski jerked his thumb toward the computer room. "I punched for names of Supremist members coupla minutes ago. Thought maybe we could start in that way." Pell followed, his mind not really on the job yet. He wasn't at his best working with the computers, and yet operating them was ninety per cent of investigation. He supposed he'd get used to it sometime. Three walls of the big computer room were lined with control racks, consisting mostly of keyboard setups. Code symbols and index cards were placed in handy positions. The C.I.B. circuits, of course, were adapted to the specialized work of investigation. In the memory banks of tubes and relays there was a master file of all names -- aliases and nicknames included -- with which the organization had ever been concerned. Criminals, witnesses, complaints, everyone. Code numbers linked to the names showed where data on their owner could be found. A name picked at random might show that person to have data in the suspect file, the arrest file, the psychological file, the modus operand! file, and so forth. Any of the data in these files could be checked, conversely, against the names. Kronski walked over to where letter sized cards were flipping from a slot into a small bin. He said. "Didn't even have to dial in Central Data for these. Seems we got a lot of Supremist members right in our own little collection." Pell picked up one of the cards and examined it idly. Vertical columns were inscribed along the card, each with a heading, and with further sub-headed columns. Under the column marked Modus Operandi, for instance, there were subcolumns titled Person Attacked, Property Attacked, How Attacked, Means of Attack, Object of Attack, and Trademark. Columns of digits, one to nine, were under each item. If the digits # and # were punched under Trademark the number # could be fed into the Operational Data machine and this machine would then give back the information on a printed slip that number # stood for the trademark of leaving cigar butts at the scene of the crime. "Got five hundred now," said Kronski. "I'll let a few more run in case we need alternates." "Okay," said Pell. "I'll start this batch through the analyzer." He took the cards across the room to a machine about twenty feet long and dropped them into the feeder at one end. Channels and rollers ran along the top of this machine and under them were a series of vertical slots into which the selected cards could drop. He cleared the previous setting and ran the pointer to Constants. He set the qualitative dial to #. This meant that on the first run the punch hole combinations in the cards would be scanned and any item common to # of the total would be registered in a relay. Upon the second run the machine would select the cards with this constant and drop them into a slot corresponding with that heading. Further scanning, within the slot itself, would pick out the constant number. Pell started the rollers whirring. Kronski came over. He rubbed his battered nose. "Hope we get outside on this case. I'm gettin' sick o' the office. Haven't been out in weeks." Pell nodded. Oh, for the life of a C.I.B. man. In teleplays they cornered desperate criminals in the dark ruins of the ancient cities topside, and fought it out with freezers. The fact was, although regulations called for them to carry freezers in their shoulder holsters, one in a thousand ever got a chance to use them. Pell said, "Maybe you need a vacation." "Maybe. Only I keep putting my vacation off. Got a whole month saved up now." "Me, too." Pell sighed. Ciel would probably be pacing the floor back home now, trying to make up her mind. To break it up, or not to break it up? There would be no difficulty, really: she had been a pretty good commercial artist before they were married and she wouldn't have any trouble finding a job again somewhere in World City. The rollers kept whirring and the cards flipping along with a whispering sound. "Wonder what we're looking into these Supremists for?" asked Kronski. "I always thought they were some kind of harmless crackpots." "The Chief doesn't think so. Neither does Theodor Rysland." He told Kronski more about the interview last night. Presently the machine stopped, clicked several times and began rolling the other way. "Well, it found something," said Kronski. They kept watching. Oh, for the life of a C.I.B. man. Cards began to drop into one of the slots. The main heading was Physical and the sub-heading Medical History. Pell frowned and said, "Certainly didn't expect to find a constant in this department." He picked up a few of the first cards and looked at them, hoping to catch the constant by eye. He caught it. "What's # under this heading?" out," and stepped over to the Operational Data board. He worked it, took the printed slip that came out and called back; "Record of inoculation." "That's a funny one." "Yup. Sure is." Kronski stared at the slip and scratched his neck. "It must be just any old kind inoculation. If it was special -- like typhoid or tetanus or something -- it'd have another digit." "There must be some other boildowns, if we could think of them." Pell was frowning heavily. Some of the other men, used to the machines, could grab a boil-down out of thin air, run the cards again and get another significant constant. The machine, however, inhibited Pell. It made him feel uneasy and stupid whenever he was around it. "How about location?" suggested Kronski. Pell shook his head. "I checked a few by eye. All different numbers under location. Some of 'em come from World City, some from Mars Landing, some from way out in the sticks. Nothing significant there." "Maybe what we need is a cup of coffee." Pell grinned. "Best idea all morning. Come on." Some minutes later they sat across from each other at a table in the big cafeteria on the seventythird level. It was beginning to be crowded now with personnel from other departments and bureaus. The coffee urge came for nearly everybody in the government offices at about the same time. Pell was studying by eye a handful of spare data cards he'd brought along and Kronski was reading faxpaper clippings from a large manila envelope marked Supremist Party. Just on a vague hunch Pell had viewplated Central Public Relations and had them send the envelope down by tube. "Prominent Educator Addresses Supremist Rally," Kronski muttered. "Three Spaceport Cargomen Arrested at Supremist Riot. Young Supremists Form Rocket Club. Looks like anybody and everybody can be a Supremist. And his grandmother. Wonder how they do it?" "Don't know." Pell wasn't really listening. "And here's a whole town went over to the Supremists. On the moon." "Uh-huh," said Pell. Kronski sipped his coffee loudly. A few slender, graceful young men from World Commerce looked at him distastefully. "Happened just this year. New Year they all went over. Augea, in the Hercules Mountains. Big celebration." Pell looked up and said, "Wait a minute..." "Wait for what? I'm not goin' anywhere. Not on this swivel-chair of a job, damn it." "New Year they all become Supremists. And the last week of December everybody on the moon gets his inoculations, right?" "Search me." "But I know that. I found that out when I was tailing those two gamblers who had a place on the moon, remember?" "So it may be a connection." Kronski shrugged. "It may be the place where we can study a bunch of these cases in a batch instead of picking 'em one by one." "You mean we oughta take a trip to the moon?" "Might not hurt for a few days." Kronski was grinning at him. "What are you grinning at?" "First you got to stay over on your vacation, so you can't go to the moon with your wife. Now all of a sudden you decide duty has got to take you to the moon, huh?" Pell grinned back then. "What are you squawking about? You said you wanted to get out on this case." Kronski, still grinning, got up. "I'm not complaining. I'm just demonstrating my powers of deduction, as they say in teleplays. Come on, let's go make rocket reservations." T he big tourist rochet let them down at the Endymion Crater Landing, and they went through the usual immigration and customs formalities in the underground city there. They stayed in a hotel overnight, Pell and Ciel looking very much like tourists, Kronski tagging along and looking faintly out of place. In the morning -- morning according to the # hour earth clock, that is -- they took the jitney rocket to the resort town of Augea, in the Hercules Mountains. The town was really a cliff dwelling, built into the side of a great precipice with quartz windows overlooking a tremendous, stark valley. It was hard to say just what attraction the moon had as a vacation land, and it was a matter of unfathomable taste. You either liked it, or you didn't. If you didn't, you couldn't understand what people who liked it saw in it. They couldn't quite explain. "It's so quiet. It's so vast. It's so beautiful," they'd say, but never anything clearer than that. Augea itself was like twenty other resorts scattered throughout both the northern and southern latitudes of the moon. Except for the military posts and scientific research stations the moon had little value other than as a vacation land. People came there to rest, to look at the bizarre landscape through quartz, or occasionally to don spacesults and go out on guided exploration trips. Immediately after checking into their hotel Pell and Kronski got directions to the office of the Resident Surgeon and prepared to go there. Ciel looked on quietly as Pell tightened the straps of his shoulder holster and checked the setting on his freezer. Ciel said, "I knew it." "Knew what, honey?" Pell went to the mirror to brush his hair. He wasn't sure it would materially improve the beauty of his long, knobby, faintly melancholy face, but he did it any way. "The minute we get here you have to go out on business." He turned, kissed her, then held and patted her hand. "That's just because I want to get it over with. Then I'll have time for you. Then we'll have lots of time together." She melted into him suddenly. She put her arms around .his neck and held him tightly. "If I didn't love you, you big lug, it wouldn't be so bad. But, Dick, I can't go on like this much longer. I just can't." "Now, baby," he started to say. There was a knock on the door then and he knew Kronski was ready. He broke away from her, threw a kiss and said, "Later. Later, baby." She nodded and held her under lip in with her upper teeth. He sighed and left. hotel and started walking along the winding tunnel with the side wall of quartz. On their right the huge valley, with its stark, imearthly landshapes, stretched away. It was near the end of the daylight period and the shadows from the distant peaks, across the valley, were long and deep. Some of them, with little reflected light, seemed to be patches of nothingness. Pell fancied he could step through them into another dimension. All about them, even here in the side of the mountain, and behind the thick quartz, there was the odd, utterly dead silence of the moon. Their footsteps echoed sparsely in the corridor. Pell said to Kronski, "Got the story all straight?" "Like as if it was true." "Remember the signal?" "Sure. Soon as you say we're out of cigarettes. What's the matter, you think I'm a moron, I can't remember?" Pell laughed and clapped him on the shoulder blade. Minutes later they turned in from the corridor, went through another, shorter passageway and then came to a door marked; Resident Surgeon. They knocked and a deep voice boomed: "Come in!" It was a medium-sized room, clearly a dispensary. There was an operating table, a sterilizer, tall glass-fronted instrument cabinets and a refrigerator. At, the far end of the room a hulking, bear-like man sat behind a magnalloy desk. The nameplate on the desk said: Hal H. Wilcox, M.D. "Howdy, gents," said Dr. Hal H. Wilcox, shattering the moon-silence with a vengeance. "What can I do for you?" he was all smiles. That smile, decided Pell, didn't quite match the shrewdness of his eyes. Have to watch this boy, maybe. There was a big quartz window behind the man so that for the moment Pell saw him almost in silhouette. "We're from Current magazine," said Pell. "I'm Dick Pell and this is Steve Kronski. You got our radio, I guess." "Oh, yes. Yes, indeed." Wilcox creaked way back in his chair. "You're the fellas want to do a story on us moon surgeons." "That's right." Pell fumbled a little self-consciously with the gravity weights clipped to his trousers. Took a while for moon visitors t# get used to them, everybody said. "Well, I don't know exactly as how there's much of a story in what we do. We're just a bunch of sawbones stationed here, that's all." "We're interested in the diseases peculiar to the moon," said Pell. "For instance, why do the permanent residents up here have to have an inoculation every year?" "That's for the Venusian rash. Thought everybody knew that." "Venusian rash?" "Nearest thing we ever had to it on Earth was Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. It's a rickettsia disease. Makes a fella pretty sick; sometimes kills Lim in two, three days. It started when they had those Venusian construction workers and tunnel men here, oh, long before the war. Under certain conditions the rickettsia stays dormant and then pops up again." "And the inoculation's for that?" "Standard. Once a year. You got the inoculation yourself, no doubt, before you jumped off for the moon." "Where does the serum or whatever you call it come from?" Pell thought he saw Wilcox's eyes flicker. The doctor said, "It's stored at the main landings. We draw it as we need it from there." "Have any here now?" Wilcox's eyes did move this time. He looked at the refrigerator -- but only for the veriest moment. "Don't really reckon so," he said finally. He was staring blankly at Pell again. Pell patted his pockets, turned to Kronski and said, "You know, I think we're out of cigarettes." Before Kronski could answer he moved to the big quartz window behind Wilcox's desk. He gazed at the moonscape. "Just can't get over how big and quiet it is," he said. Wilcox turned and gazed with him. Kronski drew his freezer. He pointed it, squeezed, and there was a soft, momentary buzzing and a twinkling of violet sparks at the muzzle of the weapon. Wilcox sat where he was, frozen, knowing nothing. on, Steve. Let's get it." They both stepped to the refrigerator. They had only seconds; Kronski' s weapon had been set at a low reading. The time of paralysis varied with the individual and Doc Wilcox looked husky enough not to stay frozen very long. If Pell and Kronski returned to their original positions after he came out of it he would never know that anything had happened. Far back on a lower shelf of the refrigerator were a dozen small bottles of the same type. Pell grabbed one, glanced at the label, nodded, and dropped it into his pocket. They took their places again. A few moments later Wilcox moved slightly and said, "Yup. Moon's a funny place all right. You either like it or you don't." The rest of the conversation was fairly uninspired. Pell didn't want to walk out too quickly, and had to keep up the pretense of interviewing Wilcox for a magazine story. It wasn't easy. They excused themselves finally, saying they'd be back for more information as soon as they made up some notes and got the overall picture -- whatever that meant. Wilcox seemed satisfied with it. They hurried back along the tunnel, descended to another level and found the Augea Post Office. They showed the postmaster their C.I.B. shields and identification cards and arranged for quick and special handling for the bottle of vaccine. Pell marked it Attention, Lab, and it was scheduled to take a quick rocket to the Endymion landing and the next unmanned mail rocket back to World City. Pell stayed at the Post Office to make out a quick report on the incident so he wouldn't have to bore Ciel by doing it in the room, and Kronski sauntered on back to the hotel. There was a fax receiver there and Pell, missing the hourly voice bulletins of World City Underground, checked it for news. The pages were coming out in a long tongue. He looked at the first headline: Well, that was a step in the right direction. Maybe one of these days they'd get around to a Solar Congress, as they ought to. The recent open war with Venus had taught both Earthmen and Venusians a lot about space travel, and it was probably possible to explore the solar system further right now. No one had yet gone beyond the asteroids. Recent observations from the telescope stations here on the moon had found what seemed to be geometrical markings on some of Jupiter's satellites. Life there? Could be. Candidates for a brotherhood of the zodiac -- if both Terrans and Venusians could get the concept of brotherhood pounded through their still partially savage skulls. Another headline; Not so good, that. Loose talk. Actually it was an Undersecretary of War who had said it. Pell ran over the rest of the article quickly and came to what seemed to him a significant excerpt. "Certain patriotic groups in the world today necessary sacrifices to get it over with. There is a fundamental difference between Earthmen and other creatures of the system, and this difference can be resolved only by the dominance of one over the other." Supremist stuff. Strictly. If this Undersecretary were not actually a member he was at least a supporter of the Supremist line. And that line had an appeal for the unthinking, Pell had to admit. It was pleasant to convince yourself that you were a superior specimen, that you were chosen... Pell frowned deeply at that one and read the story. A couple of Venusian miners on Mars had wandered too close to one of the Earth military outposts, and had been nabbed. He doubted that they were spies; he doubted that the authorities holding them thought so. But it seemed to make a better story with a slight scare angle. He thought about how Mars was divided at an arbitrary meridian -- half to Venus, half to Earth. The division solved nothing, pleased nobody. Joe Citizen, the man in the tunnels could see these things, why couldn't these so-called trained diplomats? Pell finished his report, questioned the Postmaster a little on routine facts concerning the town, and went back to the hotel. She was in a smart, frontless frock of silvercloth. Her golden hair shone. Her large, dark eyes looked deep, moist, alive. She looked at him questioningly and he read the silent question : Now can you spare a little time? "Baby," he said softly, and kissed her. "Mm," he said when he had finished kissing her. The voice-phone rang. He said, "Damn it." It was Kronski, in his own room next door. "Did Wilcox leave yet?" he asked. "Wilcox?" "Yeah. The Doc. Is he still there?" "I didn't know he was here at all." Kronski said, "Huh?" Pell said, "Maybe we better back up and start all over again." "Wilcox, the Resident Surgeon Doc Wilcox," said Kronski, not too patiently. "He was in my room a little while ago. Said he'd drop by on his way out and see if you were in." Pell glanced at Ciel. She was busy lighting a cigarette at the other end of the room. Or pretending to be busy. Pell said, "I just got here. Just this minute. I didn't see any Wilcox. What'd he want?" "I don't know exactly. He was kind of vague about it. Wanted to know if he could answer any more questions for us, or anything like that." "Sounds screwy." "Yeah. It sure does, now that I think it over." "Let me call you back," said Pell and hung up. He turned to Ciel. "Was Doc Wilcox here?" "Why, yes. He stopped in." Nothing but blank innocence on her face. "Why didn't you tell me?" "Hm?" She raised her eyebrows. "He just stopped in to see if you were here, that was all. I told him you weren't and he went out again." "But you didn't mention it." "Well, why should I?" "I don't know. I'd think you'd say something about it." "Now, listen, Dick -- I'm not the matter with you, anyway?" "It just strikes me as funny that Wilcox should drop in here and you shouldn't say one word about it, that's all." "Well, I like that." She folded her arms. "You're getting to be so much of a cop you're starting to be suspicious of your own wife." "Now, you know it's not that at all." "What else is it? Dick, I'm sick of it. I'm sick of this whole stupid business you're in. The first time we get a few minutes alone together you start giving me the third degree. I won't stand for it, that's all!" "Now, baby," he said and took a step toward her. The deeper tone of the viewer sounded. Mol. said disgustedly and answered the call. The image of Chief Larkin's boyishly handsome face came into focus on the screen. Pell lifted a surprised eyebrow and said, "Oh, hello, Chief." Larkin's eye was cold. Especially cold in the setting of that boyish face. "What in hell," he asked, "are you and Kronski doing on the moon?" "Hm?" Now it was Pell's turn to look innocent. "Why, you know what we're doing. Chief. We're investigating that case. You know the one -- I don't want to mention it over the viewer." "Who the devil authorized you to go traipsing to the moon to do it?" "Why, nobody authorized us. I thought -- I mean, when you're working on a case and you have a lead, you're supposed to go after it, aren't you?" "Yes, but not when it's a crazy wild goose chase." In the viewer Pell saw the Chief slam his desk with the palm of his hand. "I'd like to know what in blazes you think you can do on the moon that you can't do in a good healthy session at the computers?" "Well, that's kind of hard to explain over the viewer. We have made some progress, though. I just sent you a report on it." Larkin narrowed one eye. "Pell, who do you think you're fooling?" "Fooling?"  "You heard me. I know damn well you wanted to take a vacation on the moon. But we have a little job for you that holds you up, and what do you do? The next best thing, eh? You see to it that the job takes you to the moon." "Now, Chief, it wasn't that at all " "The devil it wasn't. Now, listen to me. Pell. You pack your bags and get right back to World City. The next rocket you can get. You understand?" Before he answered the question he looked at Ciel. She was staring at him quietly. Again he could read something of what was in her mind. He knew well enough that she was trying to say to him: "Make a clean break now. Tell him No, you won't come back. Quit. Now's the time to do it -- unless you want that stupid job of yours more than you want me..." Pell sighed deeply, slowly looked into the viewer again and said, "Kronski and I'll be back on the next rocket. Chief." Chter rV B ack again in the underground offices of C.I.B., Agent Richard Pell plunged into his job. Up to his neck. It was the only way he could keep from brooding about Ciel. She was somewhere in the city at this very moment and if he really wanted to take the trouble he'd be able to find her easily enough -- but he didn't want it to happen that way. She'd never really be his again unless she came to him... And so once more he found himself in the office late at night. Alone. Poring over the lab reports that had come in that afternoon, turning them over in his mind and hoping, he supposed, for a nice intuitive flash, free of charge. As a matter of fact the analysis of the vaccine he'd lifted from Wilcox's dispensary was not without significance. There was definitely an extraneous substance. The only question was just, what this substance might be. Take a little longer to find that out, the report said. It made Pell think of the corny sign World Government officials always had on their desks, the one about doing the difficult right away and taking a little longer for the impossible. Some day, when he was a big-shot, he would have a sign on his desk saying: Why make things difficult when with even less effort you can make them impossible? Of course, ideas like that were probably the very reason he'd never be a big-shot... The Identifier humming. Someone coming again. He looked up, and then had the curious feeling of being jerked back in time to several nights ago. Chief Larkin and Theodor Rysland entered. "Hello, Dick," said Larkin, with a touch of studied democracy. He glanced at the government adviser as if to say: See? Knew we'd find him here. Pell made a sour face. "Some day I'm going to stop giving all this free overtime. Some day I'm not going to show up at all." Rysland smiled, dislodging some of the rock strata of his curiously pale face. He seemed a little weary this evening. He moved slowly and with even more than his usual dignity. He said, "I hope, Mr. Pell, that you'll wait at least until you finish this job for us. I understand you've made some progress." Pell shrugged and gestured at the lab report. "Progress, maybe -- but I don't know how far. Just a bunch of new puzzles to be perfectly frank." Rysland sat down at the other desk and drummed on it with his fingertips. He looked at Pell gravely. "As a matter of fact, since we last talked to you the situation has become even more urgent. A Supremist congressman introduced a bill today before the world delegates which may prove very dangerous. Perhaps you know the one I refer to." "I was too busy to follow the news today," said Pell, looking meaningfully at Larkin. Larkin didn't seem to notice. Rysland said, "I'll brief you then. The bill purports to prohibit material aid of any kind to a nonTerran government. That means both credit and goods. And since the only real non-Terran government we know is Venus, it's obviously directed specifically at the Venusians." Pell thought it over. High level stuff again. He nodded to show he followed. "On the surface," continued Rysland, "this would seem to be a sort of anti-espionage bill. Actually, it's a deliberately provocative act. I know the Venusians will take it that way. But right now certain quarters are secretly trying to negotiate a trade treaty with Venus which would be a major step toward peaceful relations. If this bill became law, such a treaty would be impossible." "But World Congress isn't likely to pass such a bill, is it? Won't they see through it?" Rysland frowned. "That's what we're not sure of. Messages are pouring in urging passage -- all of them from Supremists, of course. The Supremists are relatively few, but they make a lot of noise. Sometimes noise like that is effective. It could swing a lot of delegates who don't see the real danger of this bill and are at the moment undecided. The Defender side, with its desire to isolate and fortify, is especially susceptible." "That is bad," said Pell thoughtfully. the desk. "Now then, if we can somehow discredit the Supremists -- get to the bottom of this thing quickly enough -- I'm sure that bill will be killed. I came here tonight, I suppose, out of pure anxiety. In other words, Mr. Pell, just how far are you?" Pell smiled and shook his head. "Not very, I'm afraid. This Supremist thing is the damndest I ever came across. No central headquarters, no officers, no propaganda mill -- entirely word of mouth as far as I can see. No way of finding out how it started, or even how the new members are proselyted. Ask any member how he became a Supremist. He just looks kind of dreamy and mutters something about the truth suddenly dawning upon him one day." "But don't you have any theories?" "I've got a hunch," Pell said, picking up the lab report. Chief Larkin snorted softly. The snort said clearly enough that an efficient investigator didn't depend on hunches these days: he went after something doggedly on the computer, or by other approved techniques. Pell pretended not to hear the snort. "First of all we discovered that nearly all Supremists received some kind of an inoculation before they became Supremists. Then we found a whole village, one of those moon resort towns, that had gone over. There was the record of inoculation there, too. I got hold of some of the vaccine and had the lab analyze it. It's mostly vaccine all right, but there is a foreign substance in it. Listen." He read from the report: "Isolated point oh six jour seven grams unclassified crystal compound, apparently form of nucleotide enzyme. Further analysis necessary." "You think this enzyme, or whatever it is, has something to do with it?" "I don't know. All I have is a pretty wild theory. To begin, when our lab can't analyze something right away, it's pretty rare -- possibly even unknown to chemistry in general. Now it's just possible that this substance does something to the brain that makes a man into a Supremist, and that somebody's behind the whole thing, deliberately planting the stuff so that people here and there become injected with it." "Pell." Larkin made a pained face. "Really." Pell shrugged. "Well, as I say, it's a hunch, that's all." "It's a pipe dream," said Larkin. "I never heard of anything so fantastic." "That's what folks said a couple of centuries ago when the Venusians were first trying to make contact and their ships were sighted all over the place. T never heard of anything so fantastic,' they all said." Theodor Rysland still looked interested. "Granted there is some connection between the Supremist mental state and this, er, enzyme. What then, Mr. Pell?" "Well," said Pell, stretching his legs out, "I had an idea maybe your friend Dr. Nebel could give us some help on that." "Nebel?" "He's interested in this thing, isn't he?" "Definitely. Nebel's a very public spirited man." "Well, I understand he's one of the top psychobiologists in the country today. Seems to me this new enzyme, whatever it is, would be right up his alley. Of course the lab should get to it eventually, but he might do it a lot quicker." Larkin had been examining some statistical crime charts on the wall. He turned from them. "Pell, does Kronski know about all these wild hunches of yours?" "I haven't talked with him about them yet. He left today before the lab report came in. Why?" "I was just wondering," said Larkin evenly, "whether I had two maniacs in my organization or only one, Rysland, frowning, turned to the chief. "I wouldn't be hasty, Larkin," he said. "Crazy as it sounds Pell may have something here." Larkin snorted again, and this time along with it he shook his head sadly. "What's your next move then?" Rysland asked Pell. "Tomorrow morning, first thing," Pell said, "I'll take a sample, of this stuff to Dr. Nebel and see what he can do with it. Of course the lab can keep on working on it in the meantime." "Don't you think you might do better to get busy on those computers?" Larkin asked. Pell shook his head. "This hunch is too strong, Chief." Rysland smiled, and got up. "I'm inclined to put a little stock into this man's hunches. He's done pretty well with them so far. I'd even say he's pretty close to a solution of this thing -- possibly." Larkin shrugged and started to look at the crime charts again. Rysland held out his hand. "Good night, Mr. Pell. You've encouraged me. Larkin and I are going topside for a little night cap before we turn in. Like to join us?" "No, thanks," said Pell. "I'm sleepy. I want to get home and hit that sack." "Very well. Good night again." The two men went toward the door. Pell watched them quietly. He had lied. He wasn't sleepy at all. He just wanted to get home and sit by that viewer and hope, hope against hope, that it would ring and that Ciel's lovely image would swirl into view... just the least bit tempted to go topside, however. He thought he might like to walk the broad, quiet boulevards under the stars. His brain functioned better there. The tunnels were so clean and bright and sterile, so wonderfully functional and sensible, that they oppressed him somehow. Maybe, he sometimes thought, he wasn't fit for this age. Maybe he should have been born a couple of hundred years ago. But common sense told him that people in that age must have often thought exactly the same thing to themselves. He looked at his chrono and decided he had better go home. The apartment, when he came to it, was cold and empty without Ciel. He bathed and tried to keep up his spirits by singing in his tuneless way, but it didn't help. He went back into the living room, selected a film from the library and slipped it into a lap projector. He sat down and tried to concentrate on the film, a historical adventure about the days of the first moon rockets. He couldn't follow it. The viewer rang. He bounded from the chair as though he had triggered a high speed ejection seat in a burning jet. He went to the viewer and flicked it on. The plate shimmered, and then Giel's image came into focus. "Baby!" He was certain his shout overmodulated every amp tube in the entire World City viewer system. But he felt better, wonderfully better, already. She was smiling. "Hello, Dick." "Hello." And then they looked at each other in afifectionate embarrassment for a moment. "One of us," said Pell, "ought to have his script writer along." "Dick, I don't know exactly how to say what I want to say..." "Don't. Don't say anything. Just pretend nothing ever happened. Just come on home fast as you can." "No, Dick. Not yet. I still want to talk about -- well, everything. Dick, we've got to reach some sort of compromise. There must be a way." "Come on home. We'll find a way." "Not home. Too many memories there. Besides," she smiled a little, "I don't trust us alone together. You know what would happen. We wouldn't get any talking done. Not any sensible talking anyway. You'd better meet me someplace." He sighed. "Okay. Where can I meet you?" "How about the Stardust Cafe?" "Again? That place didn't help us much the last time." "I know, but it's the handiest. I'm sure we can find a quiet place. Out on the terrace or something." "Is there a terrace?" "Yes, I think so. I'm sure there must be." He looked at his chrono. "All right, baby. Half an hour?" "Half an hour." When she clicked of! he felt his heart pounding. He felt dizzy. He felt as though he had just taken a quart of meth at one jolt -- intravenously. He sang, more loudly and more off-key than ever. He went into the bedroom and started to get dressed again. It wasn't until he was finishing the knot in his tie that the hunch hit him. hunch. He would have said it came out of nowhere, and yet it must have broken from the bottom of his mind through some kind of restraining layer into the conscious levels. He didn't remember .thinking anything that might have brought it on -- his mind was strictly on Ciel. Maybe that was how it came through, with the attention of his conscious mind directed elsewhere. With the hunch he heard Ciel's voice again, heard it very clearly. saying: "Vm sure we can find a quiet place. Out on the terrace or something." And with that other things started to fall into place. As he thought, and as the possibilities of his hunch fanned out to embrace other possibilities he became suddenly cold and sick inside. He fought the feeling. "Got to go through with it," he muttered to himself. "Got to." As soon as he was dre.ssed he took the tunnel cars to Station D-#, changing twice. People were aboard at this hour, returning from the evening. Lots of men and women in uniform: the green of the landfighters, the white of the seamen, the blue of the flyers, the silver and black of the space force. Young people. Kids mostly: kids who had never seen war, smelled death, heard the wounded scream. He hoped they never would. But if his hunch was correct they might be dangerously near to it right now. If only he had time to call Kronski. He'd feel a lot safer... He shook himself. Have to stop thinking about it. Proceed cautiously now, and take each thing as it came. That was the only thing to do. He went topside and stepped from the elevator kiosk into the night air. Ahead he saw the bright globular sign of the Stardust Cafe. But he didn't go toward it right away. He turned in the other direction, walked swiftly, and kept a sharp eye on the shadows. He turned off on a side street, circled a small park, and then crossed a sloping lawn toward the back of the night club. He headed for the light of the service entrance. A half-credit bill got him inside through the back entrance. He found the door with the temporary sign saying: Marco the Mentalist. He knocked. Marco the Mentalist opened the door. He didn't look quite as tall face-to-face as he did out on the floor, nor quite as impressive. His face was still dark and faintly saturnine, but the jowls seemed a little puffier now, there was a faint network of capillaries around his nostrils and his eyes looked just the least bit ' y and tired. In a pleasant l gh voice he said, "Yes?" Pell showed his C.I.B. identification. Marco raised his eyebrows a little and said, "Come inside, please." Inside he found a chair for Pell. He sat across from him at his dressing table, half-turned toward the room. "I must get ready for my show in a little while. You understand that, of course." Pell nodded. "What's on my mind won't take long. First of all, I want to ask a few questions about hypnotism. They may seem silly to you, or maybe a little elementary, but I'd like you to answer 'em just the same." Marco's eyebrows went a little bit higher and he said, "Proceed." "Okay. Question number one: can anybody be hypnotized against his will?" "Some can, some can't." Marco smiled. "The average person, under average circumstances -- no. I appear in my act to hypnotize people against their wills. Actually, subconsciously, they wish to be hypnotized, which is why they volunteer to let me try in the first place." "Okay, number two. Is there any drug that can hypnotize a person?" Marco frowned. "Pentothal and several things appear to do that. You could argue it either way, whether the subject is actually hypnotized or not. I believe post-hypnotic commands have been given to subjects under sodium pentathol and carried out, even back in the dark ages of psychiatry several hundred years ago." "I've got one more really important question," Pell said then. "I'd understood that somebody under hypnosis won't do anything against his moral or ethical sense. An honest man, for instance, can't be forced to steal. Is that true?" Marco laughed and gestured with his graceful fingers. "I don't think it is true. It was once believed to be, because hypnotic technique was not strong enough. That is, the subject's hypnosis was not strong enough to overcome a strong moral sense, which is actually a surface veneer on a deeper, more brutal nature. But I think with deep enough hypnosis, and the right kind of command, you can get a person to do most anything in post-hypnotic behavior -- and of course not know why he must do it, even knowing it's wrong. Do you follow me?" "I hope I do." Then Pell leaned forward. "And now I have a very great favor to ask of you." "Yes?" "I want you to put on a little special private performance for me, right here and now." "I'm afraid I don't understand." "You will, in about sixty seconds. Just listen carefully..." Chapter V H e was late for his date with Ciel, of course. He glanced at his chrono as he entered the Stardust Cafe by the front door and saw that he was twenty minutes late. However, this time he was certain Ciel wouldn't complain too vigorously. Again the askarins were playing, and once more the green-skinned Venusian girls were doing their writhing, spasmodic, aphrodisiacal dance. It was remarkable how they could achieve such an effect of utter abandon and yet keep their faces blank and frozen. He looked around the rest of the room swiftly. Not so crowded tonight, and people were generally quieter. There were no oversexed spacemen clawing after the dancers on the floor. Ciel was again in a rear booth, in the same corner of the room she had chosen before. She had spotted him now; she was looking his way. She lifted a white-gloved hand and waved. He smiled and  headed for her. He forced his smile, and made himself forget the prickling of his wrists and the feeling of bristling fur along his spine. And he held his smile all the way across the room. Why, hello, darling, fancy seeing you here; no, nothing's wrong, nothing at all, why on earth would you think anything was wrong? "Hi, baby," was all he actually said. "I'm -- I'm glad you're here, Dick." Her eyes didn't show much. They roved over his face a little too much perhaps, but otherwise they seemed simply as large and dark as ever. He noticed that the meth glass in front of her was empty. Grinning, he sat down. "This is a big moment. This is almost too much for me to handle. Maybe that's what I need -- a good slug of meth." "No." "No?" "Let's not waste time. Let's go out on the terrace. I want you to kiss me." "Best offer I've had all evening." He rose again. "Where's the terrace?" "Through that door. There's a dining room there that's closed at night. You go through the dining room and out to the terrace." "Okay." He took her arm and led her in and out of tables, across the room. They moved swiftly through the quiet, nearly dark dining room, and after that through a pair of window-doors. They were on the terrace then, a flagstoned space with a low wall. It overlooked the scattered lights of World City's topside area and some distance beyond they could see the river, a blue-silver ribbon in the moonlight. They stopped at the wall. She turned toward him. He looked down at her, at her pale face and deep, dark eyes. He smelled her perfume and he felt her live warmth near him and coming nearer. He saw her eyes close, her lips part just slightly, and each lip glistening, faintly moist... He was wondering when it would happen. He was wondering when he would be struck. As he wondered that he suddenly discovered he wasn't on the terrace any more. H e looked about him in some surprise. It was nearly dark. He was in a room; he could sense the walls about him. He heard a curious, high-pitched metallic voice -- and recognized it. "Pell? Are you awake now?" It had happened then, just as he had expected. Someone had thrown a freezer on him there in the patio, and during his complete unconsciousness he'd been taken here, wherever this was. He sighed. The least they could have done would have been to let him finish kissing Ciel. As calmly as he could he said to the four blank walls, "I'm awake." Soft glowlights came on gradually and he saw that the room about him was fairly small -- twenty by fifteen, roughly -- and very plain. It contained a bed and a few odd pieces of furniture, all apparently of good quality. There was a door in one wall. He tried the door. Locked. He went back to the middle of the room. "Chief," he said to the blank walls, "what's this all about? Is it some kind of a joke?" The metallic voice chuckled. It belonged to Eustace J. Larkin, Chief, Central Investigation Bureau, and even filtered like this it was somewhat prim and precise. "No, Dick, it's not a joke. I'm afraid. I'm surprised you haven't guessed what it's all about. Or at hunches." There was sarcasm in this last. "Where's Ciel?" Pell asked. "Right here with me. In the next room. Here -- listen." Ciel's voice said, "Don't worry, darling, we'll explain everything. And when it's all over it will be for the best. You'll see that it will." "All right, everybody," said Pell, half-belligerently, "what's the big idea?" "Big idea is right," Larkin's voice came back. "The biggest that ever hit the human race. And as Ciel says we'll explain it all in a moment. But first I'd like your word that you won't be foolish and make any kind of a struggle. If you'll promise that you can come in the other room here and we can all talk face to face." Pell frowned. "I don't know -- I'm not so sure I can honestly promise that." "Suit yourself, then. A few minutes from now it won't make any difference anyway." "Will you stop being so damned mysterious and tell me what it's all about?" Larkin's voice laughed. "Very well. I haven't had much chance to tell about it, frankly. And I think you'll agree we've rather neatly kept our parts under cover -- until you got dangerously close to the answer, anyway." "Until I got close?" "Certainly. Doc Wilcox's office on the moon was perhaps our one weakness in the whole set-up. How you managed to stumble on to that, ni never know -- your luck must have been with you." "It wasn't luck, Larkin, it was a hunch." "Still believe in hunches, eh? Well, we won't argue the point. At any rate you wouldn't have found the enzyme any place else but there." "Oh, so the enzyme does have something to do with it." "Everything. Here -- suppose I let Doctor Nebel explain it to you. He developed it, after all." Pell lifted his eyebrows in surprise and Dr. Walter Nebel's sibilant voice came through the hidden speakers. "I think you should know how it works, Mr. Pell. You may know that a certain part of the brain called Rossi's area is, to put it figuratively, the hypnotic center. The cut-off of the adrenal cortex, so to speak. In ordinary hypnosis the function of that area is dulled by overexercising the motor senses. By that method the intensity of hypnosis is widely variable and never really one hundred per cent effective. My compound, however, brings about complete and absolute cut-off. Any post-hypnotic suggestion given under those circumstances takes permanently and deeply. It can only be removed by further post-hypnosis under the same treatment, negating the original command." Pell stared at the blank walls. !'Go on," he said in a soft, tense voice. "What's the rest?" Larkin spoke again. "Suppose we briefly examine a little history as a kind of introduction to this matter. The human race, since the beginning of recorded time, has failed to achieve real peace and stability, right? Every time there has been a chance for cooperative effort -- for total agreement -- certain selfish interests have spoiled it. There have been times, however, when certain groups' -- states or combinations of states -- came close to permanent peace and prosperityThe Napoleonic era was one. Hitler two hundred years ago almost brought it about. The only reason they failed was that they didn't achieve their goal -- complete conquest." Did Pell hear correctly? Was there a faint simmering of madness in that metallic voice now? In the words there was madness, surely... Pell, people simply don't know what's good for them. Look at the blunderers and even downright crooks who are elected to World Government. Never the best brains, never the best talents. When a really able man gets into a position of leadership it's an accident -- n fluke." "I still don't see what all this has got to do with it," said Pell. There was a shrug in the metallic voice. "For once the ablest men are going to take over. There are a number of us. You know already about myself and Doctor Nebel. Rysland will be with us, too, as soon as we can get him conditioned." "By conditioned, you mean this enzyme of yours?" "Exactly. We started out in a small way, using force or trickery where necessary, and managed to condition a number of doctors and nurses. Conditioning simply means injecting Nebel's compound and then giving the post-hypnotic command to be unquestioningly loyal to the Supremists. We created the Supremists, of course. In order for us to take over it will be necessary to have another war, and to conquer Venus. That can be done if Earth strikes quickly. Within the next few days I think there'll be enough Supremist influence to get this war started." Pell stared back, open-mouthed. To hear it coldly and calmly like this was shock, cold-water shock. "Let me get this straight now. Your group made Supremists of doctors and nurses and they in turn made new members by installing this hypnosis stuff whenever anybody came for a hypodermic injection of any kind, is that it?" "That's It." "But how does this stuff work? Does it knock you out, or what?" "You'll be finding that out at first hand very shortly." Pell stiffened, made fists and unconsciously lifted them and looked around him, warily. Larkin laughed. "It won't do you much good to put up a fight. I'm sending a couple of my assistants in there. They specialize in people who want to make a struggle. And there's no reason to feel unhappy about it. Pell : once you're conditioned you'll simply be unable to do anything against the Supremist cause. You'll be happier, in fact, having such a cause. Ask your wife if that isn't so." Pell trembled with anger. "How did you get to her? How did you make her do what she did?" "You mean luring you into our little trap on the terrace, so to speak? You mustn't blame Ciel for that. She couldn't help herself; she had to obey, after all. You see she was conditioned in Augea on the moon by Dr. Wilcox, one of our very loyal men. He simply dropped in when you were at the Post Office, pretended that Ciel needed a routine injection and she, not at all suspicious, allowed him to do it. He gave her the command of loyalty, and also cautioned her not to say anything about it. So you see, Ciel's been one of us for several days. It was just a little precaution of mine, in case you should become troublesome. I had to assign somebody to the investigation, of course, because Rysland and his crowd would have been too suspicious if I hadn't complied with their request." "You're stark crazy, Larkin! You ought to be in a mental hospital!" "You'll be over that idea in a minute or so. Meanwhile, we're wasting time. I'm sending the boys in now. You'll make it easier for yourself if you submit without giving them any trouble." The door opened, then. Pell caught a quick glimpse of the other room and saw that it was a tastefully furnished living room. He recognized it, and knew where he was. This was a country house of Larkin's, topside, not far from the outskirts of World City. Whoever turned the freezer on him must have set the control at high intensity because it would take at least an hour to get to this place from the Stardust Cafe and he had been unconscious at least that long. He had the momentary impulse to rush that partly opened door -- and then the boys, as Larkin had called them, appeared. T hey were specialists, little doubt of that. They regarded Pell with flat, almost disinterested looks as the door closed behind them. One held a hypodermic needle. He was the shorter of the two, but he had shoulders like oxyokes. His face had been kneaded in the prize ring, and his bare arms were muscular and hairy but the top of his head was bald. The other had red hair, close-cropped. He waS' big and well-proportioned ; Pell might have taken him for a professional football player. Red did the talking. He spoke quietly, almost pleasantly. "Gonna cooperate?" he asked Pell. Pell said, "You touch me, brother, and I'll make your face look like Baldy's." Red glanced at Baldy and seemed to sigh. Abruptly he whirled, jumped at Pell and brought a sizzling right hand punch through the air. Pell ducked it. He saw Baldy move in as he did so, and a painful blow struck the back of his neck. His teeth rattled when it struck. Something caught him under the chin, straightened him. When he was straight a pile driver struck him in the midsection. It was all over within a matter of seconds. Under different circumstances Pell might have found time to admire their technique. As it was, he was now face down on the floor and Red was straddling him, holding him there. The pain in his stomach made him gasp. His face and the back of his neck ached terribly. Red had his arm in the small of his back. Pell tried to struggle. "I can break the arm if you move," said Red cheerfully. And then Pell felt the bite of the needle just below his shoulder. A misty feeling came. He felt as though he were in a red whirlpool, spinning, going down -- down... He fought to rise. He could still hear. He could hear footsteps and the slam of the door when somebody else came into the room. And then he seemed abruptly to be detached from his own body and floating in a huge gray void... Words hammered at his brain. Larkin's voice, at his ear now and no longer metallic. "You will be loyal to the Supremist cause. You will do nothing against the Supremist doctrine. You will believe that Earthmen are meant to rule the Universe -- " He felt an overpowering impulse to nod, to agree, to believe that it was right to do this. He fought this impulse, straining his mind and his very being until it seemed that something might burst with the effort. "You will work for the cause; you will give your life for it if necessary.'"' Yes, perhaps it was better so succumb. The words were too strong. He couldn't fight them. Larkin was right, Earthmen were supreme, and they were destined to rule... Somewhere in the depths a tiny spot of resistance still glowed. He tried desperately to evoke it. It seemed then that it became brighter. He could resist -- he would... He kept thinking over and over again; "No, no, no!" Larkin's voice said, "Carry him in the other room. He'll come to in a moment." H e came to slowly, and he saw that he was lying on a couch and that several people were gathered around him smiling down at him. Something detached itself from the group, knelt by his side. He blinked. It was Ciel. Her golden hair shone and her dark eyes searched his face and she was smiling. "Hello, darling," she said. "Hello, Ciel." He kissed her, and then sat up on the couch and looked around. Larkin and Dr. Nebel were standing together, and Red and Baldy were a few steps behind them, still looking indifferent. "Now you're one of us, Dick," said Larkin, flashing his professional smile, dimples and everything. Pell rose. Nebel held his hands behind his back and beamed, blinking his heavy reptilian eyelids and Larkin stepped forward and held out his hand. "Yes," said Pell, shaking the hand, "I guess we're all working for the same thing now. What do you want me to do?" Larkin laughed. "Nothing right away. We'll give you instructions when the time comes. I think you might as well go home with Ciel now; I have a copter and a chauffeur outside that'll take you to the station near your apartment." "Okay, Chief, whatever you say." He smiled and took Ciel's arm. He started toward the door. Then he stopped, patted his chest and said, "Oh -- my freezer. I guess the boys took it away... Larkin turned to Baldy. "Give him his weapon." Baldy took the freezer from his pocket and casually tossed it to Pell. A sudden change came over Pell, then. His smile disappeared. He stepped quickly away from Ciel, whirled and faced all of them. He pointed the freezer. "All right, everybody stay perfectly still -- you, too, Ciel. This is where we break up your little Supremist nightmare." Larkin stared in utter amazement. Nebel's turtle lids opened wide. Ciel brought her hand to her throat. Red's hand blurred suddenly, going for his own weapon. Pell squeezed the trigger, the violet sparks danced for an instant, and then Red stood frozen with his hand almost to his chest. "I'd advise nobody else to try that," said Pell, and then in an ironical tone to Larkin: "C.I.B. agents are trained to be pretty quick with a freezer, right. Chief?" Larkin seemed to find his voice now "But -- how -- what happened? You were injected. How can you..." "I just took a little precaution, that's all,'; said Pell. "There'll be plenty of time to explain it all later. You'll probably hear the whole thing in court, Larkin, when I testify at your trial for treason. Meanwhile, all of you just stay nice and calm while I use the viewer." He stepped to the viewer and dialed with his free hand. The plate glowed, shimmered and a moment later the pale, grave face of Theodor Rysland came into view. His eyebrows rose as he saw the weapon in Pell's hand and glimpsed the people beyond Pell. "Hello -- what's this all about?" "Haven't time to explain fully now," said Pell, "but I want you to get to Larkin's country house as soon as you can. I'll call agent Kronski in a moment and have him bring some others, and together we'll take Larkin and Nebel into custody. They're behind the Supremist movement -- a deliberate attempt to take over the government. They did it with a drug; that's how Supremist's are made." "What's this? A drug?" "Think about it later," said Pell. "Just grab the facts right now. The drug makes a person subject to post-hypnotic commands -- that's why your Supremists are blindly, unthinkingly loyal. However, the command can be erased by a second treatment. That'll be tough and take a lot of ferreting out, but it won't be impossible." He glanced at Ciel, and saw that she was staring at him with horror -- with enmity. It sickened him, but he steadied himself with the realization that Ciel would be one of the first to be re-treated. had completed his calls. Rysland, Kronski and the others were on the way. He kept the freezer pointed, and watched his captives carefully. Ciel had gone over to the couch and was sitting there, her face in her hands, weeping softly. "I don't know how you did it," said Larkin. "I don't understand it. The injection should have worked. It always did before." "Well, it almost worked," said Pell. "I must admit I had quite a time fighting off your commands. But, you see, I knew you'd gotten to Ciel somehow when she called me up to make the date this evening. She spoke of going out to the terrace at the Stardust Cafe. It was a little odd that she should speak of the terrace like that, out of a clear sky -- and I wondered why it should be on her mind. Then it struck me that neither of us had ever noticed a terrace there, and Ciel must have some special reason for knowing about it. "She did, of course -- she'd been instructed to get me out there where your boys could slap a freezer on me. So I started guessing with that hunch to work on. Everything more or less fell into place after that. It was pretty certain that they'd try to make a loyal Supremist out of me, too, and that's when I took that little precaution I mentioned to you." "What precaution?" Pell smiled. "I had Marco the mentalist hypnotize me and give me a rather special post-hypnotic command. He ordered me not to believe any subsequent post-hynotic commands. That's why your conditioning didn't work on me." Larkin could find no words; he just stared. "Think about it, Larkin," said Pell. "Think hard. Maybe you'd convinced yourself you were doing good, but your purpose was still tyranny. And like any tyranny it contained the means of its own destruction. It always works out that way, Larkin -- maybe it's a law, or something." It had been a long speech for Pell, practically an oration. He was, after all, a cop, not a philosopher. Just a guy trying to get along. Just an ordinary citizen whose name was legion, looking at his yife now and waiting with what patience he could find for the time when she would be cleared of the poisonous doctrine that any one race or group or even species was supreme. He was thinking, too, that the trial would keep him busy as the very devil and that they still wouldn't get to that vacation and seconcf honeymoon for a long time... That, considering everything, was not too much to put up with. small, and we'll continue this policy of devoting most of our space to the best available stories. But if you'll take time (and a postcard) to tell us which stories you like best, we'll tabulate and run the results in a special section -- and of course our future selections will be based on your wishes. Fair enough? She was sweet, gentle, kind -- a sort of Martian Old Mother Hubbard. But when she went to her cupboard... By Tom Leahy T he clod burst in a cloud of red sand and the little Martian sand dog ducked quickly into his burrow. Marilou threw another at the aperture in the ground and then ran over and with the inside of her foot she scraped sand into it until it was filled to the surface. She started to leave, but stopped. The little fellow might choke to death, she thought, it wasn't his fault she had to live on Mars. Satisfied that the future of something was dependent on her whim, she dug the sand from the hole. His little yellow eyes peered out at her. "Go on an' live," she said magnanimously. She got up and brushed the sand from her knees and dress, and walked slowly down the red road. The noon sun was relentless; nowhere was there relief from it. Marilou squinted and shaded her eyes with her hand. She looked in the sky for one of those infrequent Martian rain clouds, but the deep blue was only occasionally spotted by fragile white puffs. Like the sun, they had no regard for her, either. They were too concerned with moving toward the distant mountains, there to cling momentarily to the peaks and then continue on their endless route. Marilou dabbed the moisture from her forehead with the hem of her dress. "I know one thing," she mumbled. "When I grow up. I'll get to Earth an' never come back to Mars, no matter what!" She broke into a defiant, cadenced step. "An' I won't care whether you an' Mommy like it or not!" she declared aloud, sticking out her chin at an imaginary father before her. Before she realized it, a tiny, lime-washed stone house appeared not a hundred yards ahead of her. That was the odd thing about the Martian midday; something small and miles away would suddenly become large and very near as you approached it. The heat waves did it, her father had told her. "Really?" she had replied, and -- you think you know so doggone much, she had thought. into a run. By the Joshua trees, through the stone gateway she ran, and with a leap she lit like a young frog on the porch. "Hi, Aunt Twylee!" she said breathlessAn ancient Martian woman sat in a rocking chair in the shade of the porch. She held a bowl of purple river apples in her lap. Her papyrus-like hands moved quickly as she shaved the .skin from one. In a matter of seconds it was peeled. She looked up over her bifocals at the panting Marilou. "Gracious child, you shouldn't run like that this time of day," she said. "You Earth children aren't used to our Martian heat. It'll make you sick if you run too much." "I don't care! I hate Mars! Sometimes I wish I could just get good an' sick, so's I'd get to go home!" "Marilou, you are a little tyrant!" Aunt Twylee laughed. "Watcha' doin'. Aunt Twylee?" Marilou asked, getting up from her frog posture and coming near the old Martian lady's chair. "Oh, peeling apples, dear. I'm going to make a cobbler this afternoon." She dropped the last apple, peeled, into the bowl. "There, done. Would you like a little cool apple juice, Marilou?" "Sure -- you betcha! Hey, could I watch you make the cobbler. Aunt Twylee, could I? Mommy can't make it for anything -- it tastes like glue. Maybe, if I could see how you do it, maybe I could show her. Do you think?" "Now, Marilou, your mother must be a wonderful cook to have raised such a healthy little girl. I'm sure there's nothing she could learn from me," Aunt Twylee said as she arose. "Let's go inside and have that apple juice." The kitchen was dark and cool, and filled with the odors of the wonderful edibles the old Martian had created on and in the Earthmade stove. She opened the Earthmade refrigerator that stood in the corner and withdrew an Earthmade bottle filled with Martian apple juice. Marilou jumped up on the table and sat cross-legged. "Here, dear." Aunt Twylee handed her a glass of the icy liquid. "Ummm, thanks," Marilou said, and gulped down half the contents. "That tastes dreamy, Aunt Twylee." The little girl watched the old Martian as she lit the oven and gathered the necessary ingredients for the cobbler. As she bent over to get a bowl from the shelf beneath Marilou's perch, her hair brushed against the child's knee. Her hair was soft, soft and white as a puppy's, soft and white like the down from a dandelion. She smiled at Marilou. She always smiled; her pencil-thin mouth was a perpetual arc. Marilou drained the glass. "Aunt Twylee -- is it true what my daddy says about the Martians?" "True? How can I say, dear? I don't know what he said." "Well, I mean, that when us Earth people came, you Martians did inf... infan..." "Infanticide?" Aunt Twylee interrupted, rolling the dough on the board a little flatter, a little faster. "Yes, that's it -- killed babies," Marilou said, and took an apple from the bowl. "My daddy says you were real primitive, an' killed your babies for some silly religious reason. I think that's awful! How could it be religious? God couldn't like to have little babies killed!" She took a big bite of the apple; the juice ran from the corners of her mouth. "Your daddy is a very intelligent man, Marilou, but he's partially wrong. It is true -- but not for religious reasons. It was a necessity. You must remember, dear. Mars is very arid -- sterile -- unable to sustain many living things. It was awful, but it was the only way we knew to control the population." M arilou looked down her button nose as she picked a brown spot from the apple. "Hmmph, I'll tell 'im he's wrong," she said. "He thinks he knows so damn much!" "Marilou!" Aunt Twylee exclaimed as she looked over her glasses. "A sweet child like you shouldn't use such language!" Marilou giggled and popped the remaining portion of the apple in her mouth. "Do your parents know where you are, child?" Aunt Twylee asked, as she took the bowl from Marilou's hands. She began dicing the apples into a dough-lined cassarole. "No, they don't," Marilou replied. She sprayed the air with little particles of apple as she talked. "Everybody's gone to the hills to look for the boys." "The boys?" Aunt Twylee stopped her work and looked at the little girl. "Yes -- Jimmy an' Eddie an' some of the others disappeared from the settlement this morning. The men're afraid they've run off to th' hills an' the renegades got 'em." "Gracious," Aunt Twylee said; her brow knitted into a criss-cross of wrinkles. "Oh, I know those dopes. They're prob'ly down at th' canals -- fishin' or somep'n." "Just the same, your mother will be frantic, dear. You should have told her where you were going." "I don't care," Marilou said with unadulterated honesty. "She'll be all right when I get home." Aunt Twylee shook her head and clucked her tongue. "Can I have another glass? Please?" The old lady poured the glass full again. And then she sprinkled sugar down among the apple cubes in the cassarole and covered them with a blanket of dough. She cut an uneven circle of half moons in it and put it in the oven. "There -- all ready to bake, Marilou," she sighed. "It looks real yummy, Aunt Twylee." "Well, I certainly hope it turns out good, dear," she said, wiping her forehead with her apron. She looked out the open back door. The landscape was beginning to gray as heavier clouds moved down from the mountains and pressed the afternoon heat closer, more oppressively to the ground. "My, it's getting hot. I wouldn't be a bit surprised if we didn't get a little rain this afternoon, Marilou." She turned back to the little girl. "Tell me some more about your daddy, dear. We Martians certainly owe a lot to men like your father." "That's what he says too. He says, you Martians would have died out in a few years, if we hadn't come here. We're so much more civi... civili... "Civilized?" "Yeah. He says, we were so much more 'civ-ilized' than you that we saved your lives when we came here with all our modern stuff." "Well, that's true enough, dear. Just look at that wonderful Earth stove," Aunt Twylee said, and laughed. "We wouldn't be able to bake an apple cobbler like that without it, would we?" dered through the crow'ded hot air. "No. He says, you Martians are kinda likeable, but you can't be trusted. He's nuts! I like you Martians!" "Thank you, child, but everyone's endtled to his own opinion. Don't judge your daddy too severely," Aunt Twylee said as she scraped spilled sugar from the table and put little bits of it on her tongue. "He says that you'd bite th' hand that feeds you. He says, we brought all these keen things to Mars, an' that if you got th' chance, you'd kill all of us!" "Gracious," said Aunt Twylee as she speared scraps of dough with the point of her long paring knife. "He's a dope!" Marilou said. Aunt Twylee opened the oven and peeked in at the cobbler. The aroma of the simmering apples rushed out and filled the room. "Could I have some cobbler when it's done?" Marilou asked, "I'm afraid not, child. It's getting rather late." The thunder rumbled again -- a little closer, a little louder. The old lady washed the blade of the knife in the sink. "Tell me more of what your father says, dear," she said as she adjusted the bifocals on her thin nose and ran her thumb along the length of the knife's blade. "Oh, nothin' much more. He just says that you'd kill us if you had th' chance. That's the way the inferior races always act, he says. They want to kill th' people that help 'em, 'cause they resent 'em." "Very interesting." "Well, it isn't so, is it. Aunt Twylee?" The room was filled with blinding blue-white light, and the walls quaked at the sound of a monstrous thunderclap. The old Martian glanced nervously at the clock on the wall. "My, it is getting late," she said as she fondled the knife in her hands. "You Martians wouldn't do anything like that, would you?" "You want the truth, don't you, dear?" Aunt Twylee asked, smiling, as she walked to the table where Marilou sat. "'Course I do. Aunt Twylee," she said. Her scream was answered and smothered by the horrendous roar of the thunder, and the piercing hiss of the rain that fell in sheets. In great volumes of water, it fell, as though the heavens were attempting to wash the sins of man from the universe and into non-existence in the void beyond the void. M arilou lay beside the other children. Aunt Twylee smiled at them, closed the bedroom door and returned to the kitchen. The storm had moved on; the thunder was the faint grumbling of a pacified old man. What water fell was a monotonous trickle from the eaves of the lime-washed stone house. Aunt Twylee washed the blood from the knife and wiped it dry on her apron. She opened the oven and took out the browned cobbler. Sweet apple juice bubbled to the surface through the half moons and burst in delights of sugary aroma. The sun broke through the thinning edge of the thunderhead. Aunt Twylee brushed a lock of her feathery white hair from her moist cheek. "Gracious," she said, "I must tidy up a bit before the others come." Donald W. Kerst D onald w. kerst is probably unknown except in the upper strata of scientific research, but he's the man who is almost solely responsible for the betatron. The lanky six-footer was born in Galena, Kansas, in #. The Kerst family moved to Wawatosa, Wisconsin, when Donald was less than two years old, and it was in this small town that Don grew up and went to high school. He had a school chum who was an ardent amateur radio operator, and it was while helping this friend build constantly better ham apparatus that Donald Kerst's interest in science grew into an abiding passion. He entered the University of Wisconsin where he got both his B. A. and his Ph.D. After a year at the GenPersonalities in Science His Specialty: T urning New Corners eral Electric Laboratories working with X-ray tubes, he accepted the post of Professor of Physics at the University of Iowa. Kerst had started research into the nature of the atom while studying for his doctorate, and now he picked up where he had left off. In #I he was able to announce that he had achieved a new instrument of research capable of accelerating electrons to a velocity approximating the speed of light, or # miles per second! He described this new too as a "rheotron, the heart of which is a doughnut-shaped glass vacuum tube placed between the poles of a large electromagnet." The United States Government snapped up the new instrument for use in arsenals and on the Manhattan Project during the war. It was a dependable, foolproof, economical tool with the ability to penetrate twenty inches of steel with its radiation in twenty minutes, and to detect flaws of twothousandths of an inch. The units used in arsenals are able to detect flaws in bombs and shells so they can be corrected, eliminating any danger of the projectiles exploding prematurely. The commercial betatron was five feet by ten feet and housed behind a three-foot reinforced concrete wall in a specially designed building. In this particular machine the electrons from a hot filament were speeded in their acceleration by electrical impulses until they reached # volts -- then released from the tube as beta rays or directed at a metal target which converted them into X-rays.iwas using the betatron during the war and finding it most satisfactory, Kerst went right on improving the machine and its performance. Ever since the first betatron worked, the desire of the scientists and physicists was to produce particles with cosmic ray energies. Within four years after the commercial betatron, Kerst was able to produce one that achieved a #-volt free-electron beam with which it was po.ssible to penetrate to the core of the atom and to study the nucleus in a way that had never before been possible. After fifteen months of actual construction work the super-betatron was ready for a trial run. When asked by reporters to predict the performance of the machine and the possibility that mesons could be produced, Kerst answered, "To ask what we expect is like asking what's around a corner that we've never gone around before." Two days after the unveiling the super-betatron fulfilled all hopes and produced what has been described as "torrents of mesons." In order to understand just what the invention of the betatron means, we need to know exactly what a meson is. What we know about it is rather slim, as a matter of fact, and what we hope to learn with the help of the super-betatron is of vital importance. The meson is the fourth basic particle of subatomic matter (the other three are the proton, the neutron and the electron). It is believed to be the binding force that holds all nuclei together. Heretofore mesons have been studied by means of high-altitude balloons with special photographic apparatus to record their passage once they've been split from the nuclei in the earth's atmosphere by incoming cosmic rays. The force necessary to split the mesons from the nuclei has up until now been unattainable anywhere but at this high altitude. The program of improving the betatron and making it an even more useful tool than the present model goes right on, with Dr. Donald Kerst working at it full time. The blue-eyed, brown-haired man of science has little time for leisure ; he feels that there is too much left undone in this particular field. His wife Dorothy and his young son and daughter know that the one way to get Dad's nose off the grindstone is to suggest a family canoeing or skiing excursion. These are his favorite recreations. "As long as the water holds out and the snow stays, we know we can have him around with us," says Mrs. Kerst, "but you can't stop him from mulling things over even then. He's what you might call 'wrapped up in his work'." -- epw Does your wife call you Pumpkinhead? Well, maybe it's not an insult; it might be a pet name. Ah -- but whose pet name? By Russell Burton dusk-darkened Jersey meadows, Ronald Lovegear, fourteen years with Allied Electronix, embraced his burden with both arms, silently cursing the engineer who was deliberately rocking the train. In his thin chest he nursed the conviction that someday there would be an intelligent robot at the throttle of the #:# to Philadelphia. He carefully moved one hand and took a notebook from his pocket. That would be a good thing to mention at the office next Monday. Again he congratulated himself for having induced his superiors to let him take home the company's most highly developed mechanism to date. He had already forgiven himself for the little white lie that morning. "Pascal," he had told them, "is a little weak on square roots." That had done it! Old Hardwick would never permit an Allied computer to hit the market that was not the absolute master of square roots. If Lovegear wanted to work on Pascal on his own time it was fine with the boss. Ronald Lovegear consulted his watch. He wondered if his wife would be on time. He had told Corinne twice over the phone to bring the station wagon to met him. But she had been so forgetful lately. It was probably the new house; six rooms to keep up without a maid was quite a chore. His pale eyes blinked. He had a few ideas along that line too. He smiled and gave the crate a gentle pat. and she had brought the station wagon. Lovegear managed to get the crate to the stairs of the coach where he consented to the assistance of a porter. "It's not really heavy," he told Corinne as he and the porter waddied through the crowd. "Actually only # pounds, four ounces. Aluminum casing, you know;..." "No, I didn't..." began Corinne. "But it's delicate," he continued. "If I should drop this... He shuddered. After the crate had been placed lengthwise in the rear of the station wagon, Corinne watched Ronald tuck a blanket around it. "It's not very cold, Ronald." "I don't want it to get bounced around," he said. "Now, please, Corinne, do drive carefully." Not until she had driven half a block did he kiss her on the cheek. Then he glanced anxiously over his shoulder at the rear seat. Once he thought Corinne hit a rut that could have been avoided. Long after Corinne had retired that night she heard Ronald pounding with a brass hammer down in his den. At first she had insisted he take the crate out to his workshop. He looked at her with scientific aloofness and asked if she had the slightest conception of what "this is worth?" She hadn't, and she went to bed. It was only another one of his gestures which was responsible for these weird dreams. That night she dreamed Ronald brought home a giant octopus which insisted on doing the dishes for her. In the morning she woke up feeling unwanted. Downstairs Ronald had already put on the coffee. He was wearing his robe and the pinched greyness of his face told Corinne he had been up half the night. He poured coffee for her, smiling wanly. "If I have any commitments today, Corinne, will you please see that they are taken care of?" "But you were supposed to get the wallpaper for the guest room..." "I know, I know, dear. But time is so short. They might want Pascal back any day. For the next week or two I shall want to devote most of my time..." "Pascal?" "Yes. The machine -- the computer." He smiled at her ignorance. "We usually name the expensive jobs. You see, a computer of this nature is really the heart and soul of the mechanical man we will construct." Corinne didn't see, but in a few minutes she strolled toward the den, balancing her coffee in both hands. With one elbow she eased the door open. There it was: an innocent polished cabinet reaching up to her shoulders. Ronald had removed one of the plates from its side and she peeped into the section where the heart and soul might be located. She saw only an unanatomical array of vacuum tubes and electrical relays. She felt Ronald at her back. "It looks like the inside of a juke box," she said. He beamed. "The same relay systems used in the simple juke box are incorporated in a computer." He placed one hand lovingly on the top of the cabinet. "But, Ronald -- it doesn't even resemble a -- a mechanical man?" "That's because it doesn't have any appendages as yet. You know, arms and legs. That's a relatively simple adjustment." He winked at Corinne with a great air of complicity. "And I have some excellent ideas along that line. Now, run along, because I'll be busy most of the day." spent most of the day shopping for week-end necessities. On an irrational last-minute impulse -- perhaps an unconscious surrender to the machine age -- she dug in the grocery deep freeze and brought out a couple of purple steaks. That evening she had to call Ronald three times for dinner, and when he came out of the den she noticed that he closed the door the way one does upon a small child. He chattered about inconsequential matters all through dinner. Corinne knew that his work was going smoothly. A few minutes later she was to know how smoothly. It started when she began to put on her apron to do the dishes. "Let that go for now, dear," Ronald said, taking the apron from her. He went into the den, returning with a small black box covered with push buttons. "Now observe carefully," he said, his voice pitched high. He pushed one of the buttons, waited a second with his ear cocked toward the den, then pushed another. Corinne heard the turning of metal against metal, and she slowly turned her head. "Oh!" She suppressed a shriek, clutching Ronald's arm so tightly he almost dropped the control box. Pascal was walking under his own effort, considerably taller now with the round, aluminum legs Ronald had given him. Two metal arms also hung at the sides of the cabinet. One of these raised stiffly, as though for balance. Corinne's mouth opened as she watched the creature jerk awkwardly across the living room. "Oh, Ronald! The fishbowl!" Ronald stabbed knowingly at several buttons. Pascal pivoted toward them, but not before his right arm swung out and, almost contemptuously, brushed the fishbowl to the floor. Corinne closed her eyes at the crash. Then she scooped up several little golden bodies and rushed for the kitchen. When she returned Ronald was picking up pieces of glass and dabbing at the pool of water with one of her bathroom towels. Pascal, magnificently aloof, was standing in the center of the mess. "I'm sorry." Ronald looked up. "It was my fault. I got confused on the buttons." But Corinne's glances toward the rigid Pascal held no indictment. She was only mystified. There was something wrong here. "But Ronald, he's so ugly without a head. I thought that all robots -- " "Oh, no," he explained, "we would put heads on them for display purposes only. Admittedly that captures the imagination of the public. That little adapter shaft at the top could be the neck, of course..." He waved Corinne aside and continued his experiments with the home-made robot. Pascal moved in controlled spasms around the living room. Once, he walked just a little too close to the floor-length window -- and Corinne stood up nervously. But Ronald apparently had mastered the little black box. With complete confidence Corinne went into the kitchen to do the dishes. Not until she was elbow deep in suds did she recall her dreams about the octopus. She looked over her shoulder, and the curious, unwanted feeling came again. T he following afternoon -- after Ronald had cancelled their Sunday drive into the country -- Pascal, with constant exhortations by Ronald at the black box, succeeded in vacuum cleaning the entire living room. Ronald was ecstatic. "Now do you understand?" he asked Corinne. "A mechanical servant! Think of it! Of course mass production may be years away, but..." "Everyone will have Thursday nights off," said Corinne -- but Ronald was already jabbing at buttons as Pascal dragged the vacuum cleaner back to its niche in the closet. Later, Corinne persuaded Ronald to take her to a movie, but not until the last moment was she certain that Pascal wasn't going to drag along. Every afternoon of the following week Ronald Lovegear called from the laboratory in New York to ask how Pascal was getting along. "Just fine," Corinne told him on Thursday afternoon, "But he certainly ruined some of the tomato plants in the garden. He just doesn't seem to hoe in a straight line. Are you certain it's the green button I push?" "It's probably one of the pressure regulators," interrupted Ronald. "I'll check it when I get home." Corinne suspected by his lowered voice that Mr. Hardwick had walked into the lab. That night Pascal successfully washed and dried the dishes, cracking only one cup in the process. Corinne spent the rest of the evening sitting in the far corner of the living room, thumbing the pages of a magazine. On the following afternoon -- prompted perhaps by that perverse female trait which demands completion of all projects once started -- Corinne lingered for several minutes in the vegetable department at the grocery. She finally picked out a fresh, round and blushing pumpkin. Later in her kitchen, humming a little tune under her breath, Corinne deftly maneuvered a paring knife to transform the pumpkin into a very reasonable facsimile of a man's head. She placed the pumpkin over the tiny shaft between Pascal's box-shaped shoulders and stepped back. She smiled at the moon-faced idiot grinning back at her. He was complete, and not bad-looking! But just before she touched the red button once and the blue button twice -- which sent Pascal stumbling out, to the backyard to finish weeding the circle of pansies before dinner -- she wondered about the gash that was his mouth. She distinctly remembered carving it so that the ends curved upward into a frozen and quite harmless smile. But one end of the toothless grin seemed to sag a little, like the cynical smile of one who knows his powers have been underestimated. Corinne would not have had to worry about her husband's reaction to the new vegetable-topped Pascal. Ronald accepted the transformation good-naturedly, thinking that a little levity, once in a while, was a good thing. "And after all," said Corinne later that evening, "I'm the one who has to spend all day in the house with..." She lowered her voice : "With Pascal." But Ronald wasn't listening. He retired to his den to finish the plans for the mass production of competent mechanical men. One for every home in America... He fell asleep with the thought. the next two weeks going through pretty much the same routine. He, methodically jolting through the household chores; she, walking aimlessly from room to room, smoking too many cigarettes. She began to think of Pascal as a boarder. Strange -- at first he had been responsible for that unwanted feeling. But now his helpfulness around the house had lightened her burden. And he was so cheerful all the time! After living with Ronald's preoccupied frown for seven years... After luncheon one day, when Pascal neglected to shut off the garden hose, she caught herself scolding him as if he were human. Was that a shadow from the curtain waving in the breeze, or did she see a hurt look flit across the mouth of the pumpkin? Corinne put out her hand and patted Pascal's cylindrical wrist. It was warm -- flesh warm. She hurried upstairs and stood breathing heavily with her back to the door. A little later she thought she heard someone -- someone with a heavy step -- moving around downstairs. "I left the control box down there," she thought. "Of course, it's absurd..." At four o'clock she went slowly down the stairs to start Ronald's dinner. Pascal was standing by the refrigerator, exactly where she had left him. Not until she had started to peel the potatoes did she notice the little bouquet of pansies in the center of the table. Corinne felt she needed a strong cup of tea. She put the water on and placed a cup on the kitchen table. Not until she was going to sit down did she decide that perhaps Pascal should be in the other room. She pressed the red button, the one which should turn him around, and the blue button, which should make him walk into the living room. She heard the little buzz of mechanical life as Pascal began to move. But he did not go into the other room ! He was holding a chair for her, and she sat down rather heavily. A sudden rush of pleasure reddened her cheeks. Not since sorority days... Before Pascal's arms moved away she touched his wrist again, softly, only this time her hand lingered. And his wrist was warm! VV Pascal back at the lab?" she asked Ronald at dinner that evening, trying tJ keep her voice casual. Ronald smiled. "I think I might have him indefinitely, dear. I've got Hardwick convinced I'm working on something revolutionary." He stopped. "Oh, Corinne! You've spilled coffee all over yourself." The following night Ronald was late in getting home from work. It was raining outside the Newark station and the cabs deliberately evaded him. He finally caught a bus, which deposited him one block from his house. He cut through the back alley, hurrying through the rain. Just before he started up the stairs he glanced through the lighted kitchen window. He stopped, gripping the railing for support. In the living room were Pascal and Corinne. Pascal was reclining leisurely in the fireside chair; Corinne was standing in front of him. It was the expression onher face which stopped Ronald Lovegear. The look was a compound of restraint and compulsion, the reflection of some deep struggle in Corinne's soul. Then she suddenly leaned forward and pressed her lips to Pascal's full, fleshy pumpkin mouth. Slowly, one of Pascal's aluminum arms moved up and encircled her waist. Mr. Lovegear stepped back into the rain. He stood there for several minutes. The rain curled around the brim of his hat, dropped to his face, and rolled down his cheeks with the slow agitation of tears. When, finally, he walked around to the front and stamped heavily up the stairs, Corinne greeted him with a flush in her cheeks. Ronald told her that he didn't feel "quite up to dinner. Just coffee, please." When it was ready he sipped slowly, watching Corinne's figure as she moved around the room. She avoided looking at the aluminum figure in the chair. Ronald put his coffee down, walked over to Pascal, and, gripping him behind the shoulders, dragged him into the den. Corinne stood looking at the closed door and listened to the furious pounding. came out and went straight to the phone. "Yes! Immediately!" he told the man at the freight office. While he sat there waiting Corinne walked upstairs. Ronald did not offer to help the freight men drag the box outside. When they had gone he went into the den and came back with the pumpkin. He opened the back door and hurled it out into the rain. It cleared the back fence and rolled down the alley stopping in a small puddle in the cinders. After a while the water level reached the mouth and there was a soft choking sound. The boy who found it the next morning looked at the mouth and wondered why anyone would carve such, a sad JackO'-Lantern. One Mysfeiy -- Still Unsolved sist of protons, positrons, mesons and heavy nuclei -- are particles that are speeded up in space to velocities that almost equal the speed of light. These tiny pieces hit the Earth constantly at treof times greater than scientists can obtain with even the most modern types of equipment. Despite the consistent and concentrated study being made by scientists, cosmic rays remain a mystery. How they accelerate to their tremendous speeds -- their nature and where they come from and their purpose -- these are still unknown. The cosmic rays that shoot in from space are called primary radiation, and these hardly ever penetrate Earth's atmosphere to sea level. They usually hit atoms of gases that make up the air, invariably smashing the atom and sending its particles -- which are called secondary cosmic rays -- off in many different directions. Actually, in order to make a complete study of the primary cosmic rays under perfect conditions, we should have a laboratory at least # miles above Earth. That's about where the original particles can be found. But since that isn't possible -- at this time anyway -- Navy scientists send up balloons containing various sensitive equipment. Then, the primary rays shoot into the equipment leaving tracks on the photographic plates for later correlation by the scientists. Other equipment radios data to the men on the ground when a cosmic ray is detected. Rockets which can be sent that distance into the atmosphere don't serve the purpose because they can't stay up very long, and this type of project requires high altitudes for hours. Balloons, JFor this reason, have been found to bring much more successful results. With continued research and study, the mystery of the cosmic ray will undoubtedly unfold and science will be able to build the solution into another advance for the good of humanity. We Should Have Stayed Prehistoric rats and wild rats of the same family indicates a definite pattern of physiological and behavior differences between the two types. Which would lead to the idea that these same types of differences possibly e.xist between early prehistoric man and civilized man as we know him today. Man was probably made much more susceptible to various diseases by the very process of becoming civilized. Illnesses like certain forms of colitis, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, some forms of cancer, some types of mental illnesses -- all these may be the products that developed as the civilization grew. Quite possibly, as man developed from the state of a hard-fighting primitive to that of a domestic secure individual, certain changes happened to his adrenal glands and his sex glands which could have been great enough to make him an easier victim to certain types of ailments. Maybe he should have stayed a healthy prehistoric... Youth for the Old recently performed some experiments the results of which are worthy of noting. They removed some skin from the ear of a rabbit and impregnated it with glycerine. Then they froze it and kept it stored for four months, after which time they transplanted the skin and found it would grow normally. According to the two scientists -- awar -- it is not too far-fetched to assume that these pieces of skin would have remained in storage, in perfect condition, for a period much longer than the normal expected life span of their donor. If this is so, then the aches and pains of old age vill soon be over -- the possibility of perpetuating youth is probable. A man might store, for example, some pieces of his own arteries and veins. In his old age, when he is suffering from hardening of the arteries, all he'd have to do would be to replace some of his hardened arteries with those belonging to his youth. And, for the vain, no more wrinkled skin! Just store some tissues when you're #, pick them up and let them grow again with you when you're #. It's an interesting possibility. The freeze method, incidentally, is an acknowledged advantage over the fresh bank method since it has been found that freeze grafts heal faster and there is less danger of hemorrhaging. The frozen graft retains its potency. Man Makes Himself Deaf T here is no sound in nature that will do any damage to the ear drums of a human. But man has set out to master nature. And in his efforts to do so, he exposes the human ear to degrees of sound for which it was never intended, and against which it has no protection. In industry, the excessive noises of the machinery with which the worker is associated eight hours of the day create an injury to the hearing organ. The explosions of grenades and gunfire, the violent sounds made by airplane motors and jet engines and all the other instruments of warfare, all contribute their share. Even day-to-day city life as we know it contains an unnatural amount of loud and violent noise. In his effort to become master, man is slowly destroying bits of himself. -- Peter Dakin The line between noble dreams and madness is thin, and loneliness can push men past it... the lonely ones By Edward W, Ludwig onward through cold, silent infinity, on and on, an insignificant pencil of silver lost in the terrible, brooding blackness. But even more awful than the blackness was the loneliness of the six men who inhabited the silver rocket. They moved in loneliness as fish move in water. Their lives revolved in loneliness as planets revolve in space and time. They bore their loneliness like a shroud, and it was as much a part of them as sight in their eyes. Loneliness was both their brother and their god. Yet, like a tiny flame in the darkness, there was hope, a savage, desperate hope that grew with the passing of each day, each month, and each year. And at last... , "Lord," breathed Captain Sam Wiley. Lieutenant Gunderson nodded. "It's a big one, isn't it?" "It's a big one," repeated Captain Wiley. They stared at the image in the Wanderedi forward visi-screen, at the great, shining gray ball. They stared hard, for it w'as like an enchanted, God-given fruit handed them on a star-flecked platter of midnight. It was like the answer to a thousand prayers, a shining symbol of hope which could mean the end of loneliness. "It's ten times as big as Earth," mused Lieutenant Gunderson. "Do you think this'll be it. Captain?" "I'm afraid to think."  A thoughtful silence. "Captain." "Yes?" "Do you hear my heart pounding?" Captain Wiley smiled. "No. No, of course not." "It seems like everybody should be hearing it. But we shouldn't get excited, should we? We mustn't hope too hard." He bit his lip. "But there should be life there, don't you think, Captain?" "There may be." "Nine years, Captain. Think of it. It's taken us nine years to get here. There's got to be life." "Prepare for deceleration, Lieutenant." Lieutenant Gunderson's tall, slim body sagged for an instant. Then his eyes brightened. "Yes, sir!" ued to stare at the beautiful gray globe in the visi-screen. He was not like Gunderson, with boyish eagerness and anxiety flowing out of him in a ceaseless babble. His emotion was as great, or greater, but it was imprisoned within him, like swirling, foaming liquid inside a corked jug. It wouldn't do to encourage the men too much. Because, if they were disappointed... He shook his silver-thatched head. There it was, he thought. A new world. A world that, perhaps, held life. Life. It was a word uttered only with reverence, for throughout the Solar System, with the exception of on Earth, there had been only death. First it was the Moon, airless and lifeless. That had been expected, of course. But Mars. For centuries men had dreamed of Mars and written of Mars with its canals and dead cities, with its ancient men and strange animals. Everyone knew there was or had been life on Mars. The flaming rockets reached Mars, and the canals became volcanic crevices, and the dead cities became jagged peaks of red stone, and the endless sands were smooth, smooth, smooth, untouched by feet of living creatures. There was plant-life, a species of green-red lichen in the Polar regions. But nowhere was there real life. Then Venus, with its dust and wind. No life there. Not even the stars to make one think of home. Only the dust and wind, a dark veil of death screaming eternally over hot dry land. And Jupiter, with its seas of ice; and hot Mercury, a cracked, withered mummy of a planet, baked as hard and dry as an ancient walnut in a furnace. Next, the airless, rocky asteroids, and frozen Saturn with its swirling ammonia snows. And last, the white, silent worlds, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. World after world, all dead, with no sign of life, no reminder of life, and no promise of life. Thus the loneliness had grown. It was not a child of Earth. It was not born in the hearts of those who scurried along city pavements or of those in the green fields or of those in the cool, clean houses. It was a child of the incredible distances, of the infinite night, of emptiness and silence. It was born in the hearts of the slit-eyed men, the oldish young men, tlie spacemen. For without life on other worlds, where was the sky's challenge? Why go on and on to discover only worlds of death? The dream of the spacemen turned from the planets to the stars. Somewhere in the galaxy or in other galaxies there had to be life. Life was a wonderful and precious thing. It wasn't right that it should be confined to a single, tiny planet. If it were, then life would seem meaningless. Mankind would be a freak, a cosmic accident. And now the Wanderer was on the first interstellar flight, hurtling through the dark spaces to Proxima Centauri. Moving silently, as if motionless, yet at a speed of # miles a second. And ahead loomed the great, gray planet, the only planet of the sun, growing larger, larger, each instant... filled the ship. The indicator lights on the control panel glowed like a swarm of pink eyes. "Deceleration compensator adjusted for # G's, sir," reported Lieutenant Gunderson. Captain Wiley nodded, still studying the image of the planet. "There -- there's something else. Captain." "Yes?" "It's Brown, sir. He's drunk." Captain Wiley turned, a scowl on his hard, lined face. "Drunk? Where'd he get the stuff?" "He saved it, sir, saved it for nine years. Said he was going to drink it when we discovered life." "We haven't discovered life yet." "I know. He said he wouldn't set foot on the planet if he was sober. Said if there isn't life there, he couldn't take it -- unless he was drunk." Captain Wiley grunted. "All right." They looked at the world. "Wouldn't it be wonderful. Captain? Just think -- to meet another race. It wouldn't matter what they were like, would it? If they were primitive, we could teach them things. If they were ahead of us, they could teach us. You know what I'd like? To have someone meet us, to gather around us. It wouldn't matter if they were afraid of us or even if they tried to kill us. We'd know that we aren't alone." "I know what you mean," said Captain Wiley. Some of his emotion overflowed the prison of his body. "There's no thrill in landing on dead worlds. If no one's there to see you, you don't feel like a hero." "That's it. Captain! That's why I came on this crazy trip. I guess that's why we all came. I..." Captain Wiley cleared his throat. "Lieutenant, commence deceleration. # G's." "Yes, sir!" the entire visi-screen. Someone coughed behind Captain Wiley. "Sir, the men would like to look at the screen. They can't see the planet out of the ports yet." The speaker was Doyle, the ship's Engineer, a dry, tight-skinned little man. "Sure." Captain Wiley stepped aside. Doyle looked, then Parker and Fong. Just three of them, for Watkins had sliced his wrists the fourth year out. And Brown was drunk. As they looked, a realization came to Captain Wiley. The men were getting old. The years had passed so gradually that he'd never really noticed it before. Lieutenant Gunderson had been a kid just out of Space Academy. Parker and Doyle and Fong, too, had been in their twenties. They had been boys. And now something was gone -- the sharp eyes and sure movements of youth, the smooth skin and thick, soft hair. Now they had become men. And yet for a few moments, as they gazed at the screen, they seemed like happy, expectant children. "I wish Brown could see this," Doyle murmured. "He says now he isn't going to get off his couch till we land and discover life. Says he won't dare look for himself." "The planet's right for life," said Fong, the dark-faced astro-physicist. "Atmosphere forty per cent oxygen, lots of water vapor. No poisonous gases, according to spectroscopic analyses. It should be ideal for life." "There is life there," said Parker, the radarman. "You know why? Because we've given up eighteen years of our lives. Nine years to get here, nine to get back. I'm thirty now. I was twenty-one when we left Earth. I gave up all those good years. They say that you can have something if you pay enough for it. Well, we've paid for this. There has to be #i -- a sort of universal justice. That's why I know there's life here, life that moves and thinks -- maybe even life we can talk to." "You need a drink," said Fong. "It's getting bigger," murmured Lieutenant Gunderson. "The Centaurians," mused Doyle, half to himself. "What'll they be like? Monsters or men? If Parker's right about universal justice, they'll be men." "Hey, where there's men, there's women!" yelled Parker. "A Centaurian woman! Say!" "Look at those clouds!" exclaimed Doyle. "Damn it, we can't see the surface." "Hey, there! Look there, to the right! See it? It's silver, down in a hole in the clouds. It's like a city!" "Maybe it's just water." "No, it's a city!" "Bring 'er down. Captain. God, Captain, bring 'er down fast!" "Drag Brown in here! He ought to see this!" "Canlt you bring 'er down faster. Captain?" "Damn it, it  a city!" "Why doesn't someone get Brown?" "Take to your couches, men," said Captain Wiley. "Landing's apt to be a bit bumpy. Better strap yourselves in." D own went the rocket, more slowly now, great plumes of scarlet thundering from its forward braking jets. Down, down into soft, cotton-like clouds, the whiteness sliding silently past the ports. Suddenly, a droning voice : "To those in the ship from the planet called Earth: Please refrain from landing at this moment. You will await landing instructions." Parker leaped off his couch, grasping a stanchion for support. "That voice! It was human!" Captain Wiley's trembling hand moved over the jet-control panel. The ship slowed in its descent. The clouds outside the portholes became motionless, a milky whiteness pressed against the ship. "The voice!" Parker cried again. "Am I crazy? Did everyone hear it?" Captain Wiley turned away from the panel. "We heard it, Parker. It was in our minds. Telepathy." He smiled. "Yes, the planet is inhabited. There are intelligent beings on it. Perhaps they're more intelligent than we are." It was strange. The men had hoped, dreamed, prayed for this moment. Now they sat stunned, unable to comprehend, their tongues frozen. "We'll see them very soon," said Captain Wiley, his voice quivering. "We'll wait for their directions." Breathlessly, they waited. Captain Wiley's fingers drummed nervously on the base of the control panel. Lieutenant Gunderson rose from his couch, stood in the center of the cabin, then returned to his couch. Silence, save for the constant, rumbling roar of the jets which held the ship aloft. "I wonder how long it'll be," murmured Fong at last. "It seems like a long time!" burst Parker. "We've waited nine years," said Captain Wiley. "We can wait a few more minutes." They waited. "Good Lord!" said Parker. "How long is it going to be? What time is it? We've been waiting an hour ! What kind of people are they down there?" "Maybe they've forgotten about us," said Fong. "That's it!" cried Parker. "They've forgotten about us! Hey, you! Down there -- you that talked to us! We're still here, damn it! We want to land!" "Parker," said Captain Wiley,  sternly. Parker sat down on his couch, his lips quivering. Then came the voice: "We regret that a landing is impossible at this moment. Our field is overcrowded, and your vessel is without priority. You must wait your turn." Captain Wiley stared forward at nothing. "Whoever you are," he whispered, "please understand that we have come a long way to reach your planet. Our trip..." "We do not wish to discuss your trip. You will be notified when landing space is available." Captain Wiley's body shook. "Wait, tell us who you are. What do you look like? Tell us..." "Talking to you is quite difficult. We must form our thoughts so as to form word-patterns in your minds. You will be notified." "Wait a minute!" called Captain Wiley. No answer. Captain Wiley straightened in an effort to maintain dignity. They waited... The darkness was an impenetrable blanket, a solid thing, like thick black velvet glued over the ports. It was worse than the darkness of space. Captain Wiley sat before the control panel, slowly beating his fists against the arms of his chair, a human metronome ticking off the slow seconds. Parker stood before a porthole. "Hey, look. Captain! There's a streak of red, like a meteor. And there's another!" Captain Wiley rose, looked out. "They're rockets. They're going to land. These people are highly advanced." His face became grim. Below them lay a planet, an intelligent race hidden beneath clouds and darkness. What manner of creatures were they? How great was their civilization? What marvelous secrets had their scientists discovered? What was their food like, their women, their whiskey? The questions darted endlessly through his mind like teasing needle-points. All these wondrous things lay below them, and here they sat, like starving men, their hands tied, gazing upon a steaming but unobtainable dinner. So near and yet so far. He trembled. The emotion grew within him until it burst out as water bursts through the cracked wall of a dam. He became like Parker. "Why should we wait?" he yelled. "Why must we land in their field? Parker! Prepare to release flares! We're going down! We'll land anywhere -- in a street, in the country. We don't have to wait for orders!" Parker bounced off his couch. Someone called, "Brown, we're going to landl" A scurrying of feet, the rush of taut-muscled bodies, the babble of excited voices. "We're going down!" "We're going down!" The grumble of the Wanderer's jets loudened, softened, spluttered, loudened again. Vibration filled the ship as it sank downward. Suddenly it lurched upward, like a child's ball caught in a stream of rising water. The jolt staggered the men. They seized stanchions and bulkhead railings to keep their balance. "What the hell?" Abruptly, the strange movement ceased. The ship seemed motionless. There was no vibration. "Captain," said Lieutenant Gunderson. "There's no change in altitude. We're still at # feet, no more, no less." "We must be going down," said Captain Wiley, puzzled. "Kill jets # and #." The Lieutenant's hands flicked off two switches. A moment later: "There's no change. Captain." Then came the voice: "To those in the vessel from the planet Earth ; Please do not oppose orders of the Landing Council. You are the first visitors in the history of our world whom we have had to restrain with physical force. You will be notified when landing space is available." The warm sunlight streamed into the clouds, washing away the last shadows and filtering through the portholes. The men breakfasted, bathed, shaved, smoked, sat, twisted their fingers, looked out the ports. They were silent men, with dark shadows about their eyes and with tight. white-lipped mouths. Frequently, the clouds near them were cut by swift, dark shapes swooping downward. The shapes were indistinct in the cotton-like whiteness, but obviously they were huge, like a dozen Wanderers made into one. "Those ships are big," someone murmured, without enthusiasm. "It's a busy spaceport," grumbled Captain Wiley. Thoughts, words, movements came so slowly it was like walking under water. Enthusiasm was dead. The men were automatons, sitting, waiting, eating, sitting, waiting. A day passed, and a night. "Maybe they've forgotten us," said Fong. No one answered. The thought had been voiced before, a hundred times. Then, at last, the droning words; "To those in the vessel from the planet Earth: You will now land. We will carry you directly over the field. Then you will descend straight down. The atmosphere is suitable to your type of life and is free of germs. You will not need protection." The men stared at one another. "Hey," Doyle said, "did you hear that? He says we can go down." The men blinked. Captain Wiley swallowed hard. He rose with a stiff, slow, nervous hesitancy. "We're going down," he mumbled, as if repeating the words over and over in his mind and trying to believe them. The men stirred as realization sprouted and grew. They stirred like lethargic animals aroused from the long, dreamless sleep of hibernation. "We're going to land," breathed Parker, unbelievingly. The Wanderer moved as though caught in the grip of a giant, invisible hand. The voice said : "You may now descend." Captain Wiley moved to the jetcontrol panel. "Lieutenant!" he snapped. "Wake up. Let's go!" The ship sank downward through the thick sea of clouds. The men walked to the ports. A tenseness, an excitement grew in their faces, like dying flame being fanned into its Out of the clouds loomed monstrous, shining, silver spires and towers, Cyclopean bridges, gigantic lake-like mirrors, immense golden spheres. It was a nightmare world, a j'ungle of fantastic shape and color. The men gasped, whispered, murmured, the flame of their excitement growing, growing. "The whole planet is a city!" breathed Parker. The Wanderer came to rest on a broad landing field of light blue stone. The jets coughed, spluttered, died. The ship quivered, then lay still, its interior charged with an electric, pregnant silence. "You first. Captain." Lieutenant Gunderson's voice cracked, and his face was flushed. "You be the first to go outside." Captain Wiley stepped through the airlock, his heart pounding. It was over now -- all the bewilderment, the numbness. And his eyes were shining. He'd waited so long that it was hard to believe the waiting was over. But it was, he told himself. The journey was over, and the waiting, and now the loneliness would soon be over. Mankind was not alone. It was a good universe after all! He stepped outside, followed by Lieutenant Gunderson, then by Parker, Doyle and Fong. He rubbed his eyes. This couldn't be! A world like this couldn't exist! He shook his head, blinked furiously"It -- it can't be true," he mumbled to Lieutenant Gunderson. "We're still on the ship -- dreaming." The landing field was huge, perhaps ten miles across, and its sides were lined with incredible ships, the smallest of which seemed forty times as large as the Wanderer. There were silver ships, golden ships, black ships, round ships, transparent ships, cigar-shaped ships, flat-topped ships. And scattered over the field were -- creatures. A few were the size of men, but most were giants by comparison. Some were humanoid, some reptilian. Some were naked, some clad in helmeted suits, some enveloped with a shimmering, water-like luminescence. The creatures walked, slithered, floated, crawled. Beyond the ships and the field lay the great city, its web-work of towers, minarets, spheres and bridges like the peaks of an enormous mountain range stretching up into space itself. The structures were like the colors of a rainbow mixed in a cosmic paint pot, molded and solidified into fantastic shapes by a mad god. "I -- I'm going back to the ship," stammered Parker. The whiteness of death was in his face. "I'm going to stay with Brown." He turned, and then he screamed. "Captain, the ship's moving!" Silently, the Wanderer was drifting to the side of the field. The toneless voice said: "We are removing your vessel so that other descending ships will not damage it." Captain Wiley shouted into the air. "Wait! Don't go away! Help us! Where can we see you?" The voice seemed to hesitate. "It is difficult for us to speak In thoughts that you understand." Captain Wiley studied the faces of his men. They were not faces of conquerors or of triumphant spacemen. They were the faces of dazed, frightened children who had caught a glimpse of Hell. He attempted, feebly, to smile. "All right," he said loudly, "so it isn't like we expected. So no one came to meet us with brass bands and ten cent flags. We've still succeeded, haven't we? We've found life that's intelligent beyond our comprehension. What if our own civilization is insignificant by comparison? Look at those beings. Think of what we can learn from them. Why, their ships might have exceeded the speed of ligjfit. They might be from other galaxies!" "Let's find out," said Parker. They strode to the nearest ship, an immense, smooth, bluish sphere. Two creatures stood before it, shaped like men and yet twice the size of men. They wore white, skintight garments that revealed muscular bodies like those of gods. The looked at Captain Wiley and smiled. One of them pointed toward the Wanderer. Their smiles widened and then they laughed. They laughed gently, understandingly, but they laughed. And then they turned away. "Talk to them," Parker urged. "How?" Beads of perspiration shone on Captain Wiley's face. "Any way. Go ahead." Captain Wiley wiped his forehead. "We are from Earth, the third planet..." The two god-like men seemed annoyed. They walked away, ignoring the Earthmen. Captain Wiley spat. "All right, so they won't talk to us. Look at that city! Think of the things we can see there and tell the folks on Earth about! Why, we'll be heroes!" "Let's go," said Parker, his voice quavering around the edges. They walked toward a large, oval opening in a side of the field, a hole between mountainous, conical structures that seemed like the entrance to a street. Suddenly breath exploded from Captain Wiley's lungs. His body jerked back. He fell to the blue stone pavement. Then he scrambled erect, scowling, his hands outstretched. He felt a soft, rubbery, invisible substance. "It's a wall!" he exclaimed. The voice droned: "To those of Earth: Beings under the #th stage of Galactic Development are restricted to the area of the landing field. We are sorry. In your primitive stage it would be unwise for you to learn the nature of our civilization. Knowledge of our science would be abused by your people, and used for the thing you call war. We hope that you have been inspired by what you have seen. However, neither we nor the other visitors to our planet are permitted to hold contact with you. It is suggested that you and your vessel depart." "Listen, you!" screamed Parker. "We've been nine years getting here! By Heaven, we won't leave now! We're..." "We have no time to discuss the matter. Beings under the #th stage of Galactic..." "Never mind!" spat Captain Wiley. Madness flamed in Parker's eyes. "We won't go! I tell you, we won't, we won't!" His fists streaked through the air as if at an invisible enemy. He ran toward the wall. He collided with a jolt that sent him staggering backward, crying, sobbing, screaming, all at once. Captain Wiley stepped forward, struck him on the chin. Parker crumpled. They stood looking at his body, which lay motionless except for the slow rising and falling of his chest. "What now, Captain?" asked Lieutenant Gunderson. Captain Wiley thought for a few seconds. Then he said, "We're ignorant country bumpkins, Lieutenant, riding into the city in a chugging jalopy. We're stupid savages, trying to discuss the making of fire with the creators of atomic energy. We're children racing a paper glider against an atomic-powered jet. We're too ridiculous to be noticed. We're tolerated -- but nothing more." "Shall we go home?" asked Fong, a weariness in his voice. Lieutenant Gunderson scratched his neck. "I don't think I'd want to go home now. Gould you bear to tell the truth about what happened?" Fong looked wistfully at the shining city. "If we told the truth, they probably wouldn't believe us. We've failed. It sounds crazy. We reached Proxima Gentauri and found life, and yet somehow we failed. No, I wouldn't like to go home." "Still, we learned something," said Doyle. "We know now that there is life on worlds beside our own. Somewhere there must be other races like ours." They looked at each other, strangely, for a long, long moment. At last Lieutenant Gunderson asked, "How far is Alpha Centauri?" Captain Wiley frowned. "Alpha Gentauri?" Through his mind swirled chaotic visions of colossal distances, eternal night, and lonely years. He sought hard to find a seed of hope in his mind, and yet there was no seed. There were only a coldness and an emptiness. Suddenly, the voice: "Yes, Men of Earth, we suggest that you try Alpha Gentauri." The men stood silent and numb, like bewildered children, as the implication of those incredible words sifted into their consciousness. Finally Fong said, "Did -- did you hear that? He said..." Captain Sam Wiley nodded, very slowly. "Yes. Alpha Gentauri. Alpha Gentauri." His eyes began to twinkle, and then he smiled... onward through cold, silent infinity, on and on, an insignificant pencil of silver lost in the terrible, brooding blackness. Yet even greater than the blackness was the flaming hope in the six men who inhabited the silver rocket. They moved in hope as fish move in water. Their lives revolved in hope as planets revolve in space and time. They bore their hope like a jeweled crown, and it was as much a part of them as sight in their eyes. Hope was both their brother and their god. And there was no loneliness. Progress is relative; Senator O'Noonans idea of it was not particularly scientific. Which would be too bad, if he had the last word! Progress Report By Mark Clifton and Alex Apostoiides that the air conditioning unit merely washed the hot air around him without lowering the temperature from that outside. He knew it was partly psychosomatic, compounded of the view of the silvery spire of the test ship through the heatwaves of the Nevada landscape and the knowledge that this was the day, the hour, and the minutes. The final test was at hand. The instrument ship was to be sent out into space, controlled from this sunken concrete bunker, to find out if the flimsy bodies of men could endure there. Jennings visualized other bunkers scattered through the area, observation posts, and farther away the field headquarters with open telephone lines to tlie Pentagon, and beyond that a world waiting for news of the test -- and not everyone wishing it well. The monotonous buzz of the field phone pulled him away from his fascinated gaze at the periscope slit. He glanced at his two assistants. Professor Stein and Major Eddy. They were seated in front of their control boards, staring at .the blank eyes of their radar screens, patiently enduring the beads of sweat on their faces and necks and hands, the odor of it .arising from their bodies. They too were feeling the moment. He picked up the phone. "Jennings," .he said crisply. "Zero minus one half hour, Colonel. We start alert count in fifteen minutes." "Right," Colonel Jennings spoke softly, showing none of the e.xcitement he felt. He replaced the field phone on its hook and spoke to the two men in front of him. "This is it. Apparently this time we'll go through with it." Major Eddy's shoulders hunched a trifle, as if he were getting set to have a load placed upon them. Professor Stein gave no indication that he had heard. His thin body was stooped over his instrument bank, intense, alert, as if he were a runner crouched at the starting mark, as if he were young again. Colonel Jennings walked over to the periscope slit again and peered through the shimmer of heat to where the silvery ship lay arrowed in her cradle. The last few moments of waiting, with a brassy taste in his mouth, with the vision of the test ship before him; these were the worst. Everything had been done, checked and rechecked hours and days ago. He found himself wishing there were some little thing, some desperate little error which must be corrected hurriedly, just something to break the tension of waiting. "You're all right, Sam, Prof?" he asked the major and professor unnecessarily. "A little nervous," Major Eddy answered without moving. "Of course," Professor Stein said. There was a too heavy stress on the silibant sound, as if the last traces of accent had not yet been removed. "I expect everyone is nervous, not just the hundreds involved in this, but everywhere," Jennings commented. And then ruefully, "Except Professor Stein there. I thought surely I'd see some nerves at this point, Prof." He was attempting to make light conversation, something to break the strain of mounting buck fever. "If I let even one nerve tendril slack, Colonel, I would go to pieces entirely," Stein said precisely, in the way a man speaks who has learned the language from text books. "So I do not think of our ship at all. I think of mankind. I wonder if mankind is as ready as our ship. I wonder if man will do any better on the planets than he has done here." "Well, of course," Colonel Jennings answered with sympathy in his voice, "under Hitler and all the things you went through, I don't blame you for being a little bitter. But not all mankind is like that, you know. As long as you've been in our country, Professor, you've never looked around you. You've been working on this, never lifting your head " H e jerked in annoyance as a red light blinked over the emergency circuit, and a buzzing, sharp and repeated, broke into this moment when he felt he was actually reaching, touching Stein, as no one had before. He dragged the phone toward him and began speaking angrily into its mouthpiece before he had brought it to his lips. "What the hell's the matter now? They're not going to call it off again! Three times now, and..." He broke off and frowned as the crackling voice came through the receiver, the vein on his temple pulsing in his stress. "I beg your pardon. General," he said, much more quietly. The two men turned from their radar scopes and watched him questioningly. He shrugged his shoulders, an indication to them of his helplessness. "You're not going to like this, Jim," the general was saying. "But . it's orders from Pentagon. Are you familiar with Senator O'Noonan?" "Vaguely," Jennings answered, "You'll be more familiar with him, Jim. He's been newly appointed chairman of the appropriations committee covering our work. And he's fought it bitterly from the beginning. He's tried every way he could to scrap the entire project. When we've finished this test, Jim, we'll have used up our appropriations to date. Whether we get any more depends on him." "Yes, sir?" Jennings spoke questioningly. Political maneuvering was not his problem, that was between Pentagon and Congress. "We must have his support, Jim," the general explained. "Pentagon hasn't been able to win him over. He's stubborn and violent in his reactions. The fact it keeps him in the headlines -- well, of course that wouldn't have any bearing. So Pentagon invited him to come to the field here to watch the test, hoping that would win him over." The general hesitated, then continued. "I've gone a step farther. I felt if he was actually at the center of control, your operation, he might be won over, if he could actually participate, press the activating key or something, if the headlines could show he was working with us, actually sent the test ship on its flight..." "General, you can't," Jennings moaned. He forgot rank, everything. 'Tve already done it, Jim," the general chose to ignore the outburst. "He's due there now. I'll look to you to handle it. He's got to be won over. Colonel. It's your project." Considering the years that he and the general had worked together, the warm accord and informality between them, the use of Jennings' title made it an order. "Yes, sir," he said. "Over," said the general formally. "Out," whispered Jennings. The two men looked at him questioningly. "It seems," he answered their look, "we are to have an observer. Senator O'Noonan." "Even in Germany," Professor Stein said quietly, "they knew enough to leave us alone at a critical moment." "He can't do it, Jim," Major Eddy looked at Jennings with pleading eyes. "Oh, but he can," Jennings answered bitterly. "Orders. And you know what orders are, don't you, Major?" "Yes, sir," Major Eddy said stiffly. Professor Stein smiled ruefully. Both of them turned back to their instrum.ent boards, their radar screens, to the protective obscurity of subordinates carrying out an assignment. They were no longer three men coming close together, almost understanding one another in this moment of waiting, when the world and all in it had been shut away, and nothing real existed except the silvery spire out there on the desert and the life of it in the controls at their fingertips. "Beep, minus fifteen minutes!" the first time signal sounded. U The senator appeared in the low doorway and extended a fleshy hand. His voice was hearty, but there was no warmth behind his tones. He paused on the threshold, bulky, impressive, as if he were about to deliver an address. But Jennings, while shaking hands, drew him into the bunker, pointedly, causing the senator to raise bushy eyebrows and stare at him speculatively. "At this point everything runs on a split second basis, Senator," he said crisply. "Ceremony comes after the test." His implication was that when the work was done, the senator could have his turn in the limelight, take all the credit, turn it into political fodder to be thrown to the people. But because the man was chairman of the appropriations committee, he softened his abruptness. "If the timing is off even a small fraction. Senator, we would have to scrap the flight and start all over." "At additional expense, no doubt." The senator could also be crisp. "Surprises me that the military should think of that, however." The closing of the heavy doors behind him punctuated his remark and caused him to step to the center of the bunker. Where there had seemed adequate room before, now the feeling was one of oppressive overcrowding. Unconsciously, Major Eddy squared his elbows as if to clear the space around him for the manipulation of his controls. Professor Stein sat at his radar screen, quiet, immobile, a part of the mechanisms. He was accustomed to overbearing authority whatever political tag it might wear at the moment. "Beep. Eleven minutes," the signal sounded. "Perhaps you'll be good enough to brief me on just what you're doing here?" the senator asked, and implied by the tone of his voice that it couldn't be very much. "In layman's language, Colonel. Don't try to make it impressive with technical obscurities. I want my progress report on this project to be understandable to everyone." Jennings looked at him in dismay. Was the man kidding him? Explain the zenith of science, the culmination of the dreams of man in twenty simple words or less! And about ten minutes to win over a man which the Pentagon had failed to win. "Perhaps you'd like to sit here. Senator," be said courteously. "When we learned you were coming, we felt yours should be the honor. At zero time, you press this key -- here. It will be your hand which sends the test ship out into space." Apparently they were safe. The senator knew so little, he did not realize the automatic switch would close with the zero time signal, that no hand could be trusted to press the key at precisely the right time, that the senator's key was a dummy. "Beep, ten," the signal came through. Jennings went back over to the periscope and peered through the slit. He felt strangely surprised to see the silver column of the ship still there. The calm, the scientific detachment, the warm thrill of coordinated effort, all were gone. He felt as if the test flight itself was secondary to what the senator thought about it, what he would say in his progress report. He wondered if the senator's progress report would compare in any particular with the one on the ship. That was a chart, representing as far as they could tell, the minimum and maximum tolerances of human life. If the multiple needles, tracing their continuous lines, went over the black boundaries of tolerances, human beings would die at that point. Such a progress report, showing the life-sustaining conditions at each point throughout the ship's flight, would have some meaning. He wondered what meaning the senator's progress report would have. He felt himself being pushed aside from the periscope. There was no ungentleness in the push, simply the determined pressure of an arrogant man who was accustomed to being in the center of things, and thinking nothing of shoving to get there. The senator gave him the briefest of explanatory looks, and placed his own eye at the periscope slit. "Beep, nine," the signal sounded. "So that's what represents two contemptuously. "That little sliver of metal." bomb was even smaller," Jennings said quietly. T he senator took his eye away from the periscope briefly and looked at Jennings speculatively. "The story of where all that money went still hasn't been told, he said pointedly. "But the story of will be different." Colonel Jennings said nothing. The white hot rage mounting within him made it impossible for him to speak. The senator straightened up and walked back over to his chair. He waved a hand in the direction of Major Eddy. "What does that man do?" he asked, as if the major were not present, or was unable to comprehend. "Major Eddy," Jennings found control of his voice, "operates remote control." He was trying to reduce the vast complexity of the operation to the simplest possible language. "Beep, eight," the signal interrupted him. "He will guide the ship throughout its entire flight, just as if he were sitting in it." "Why isn't he sitting in it?" the senator asked. "That's what the test is for. Senator." Jennings felt his voice becoming icy. "We don't know if space will permit human life. We don't know what's out there." "Best way to find out is for a man to go out there and see," the senator commented shortly. "I want to find out something, I go look at it myself. I don't depend on charts and graphs, and folderol." The major did not even hunch his broad shoulders, a characteristic gesture, to show that he had heard, to show that he wished the senator was out there in untested space. "What about him? He's not even in uniform!" "Professor Stein maintains sight contact on the scope and transmits The senator's eyes flashed again beneath heavy brows. His lips indicated what he thought of professors and projects who used them. The colonel looked at him incredulously. It was on the tip of his tongue to ask where the man had been during the war. He decided he'd better not ask it. He might learn. "It stands for Identification -- Friend or Foe, Senator. It's army jargon." "Beep, seven." Seven minutes, Jennings thought, and here I am trying to explain the culmination of the entire science of all mankind to a lardbrain in simple kindergarten words. Well, he'd wished there was something to break the tension of the last half hour, keep him occupied. He had it. "You mean the army wouldn't know, after the ship got up, whether it was ours or the enemy's?" the senator asked incredulously. "There are meteors in space. Senator," Jennings said carefully. "Radar contact is all we'll have out verts our beam to a predetermined pulse, and it bounces back to us in a different pattern. That's the only way we'd know if we were still on the ship, or have by chance fastened on to a meteor." "What has that got to do with the enemy?" O'Noonan asked uncomprehendingly. Jennings sighed, almost audibly. "The mechanism was developed during the war, when we didn't know which planes were ours and which the enemy's. We've simply adapted it to this use -- to save money. Senator." "Humph!" the senator expressed his disbelief. "Top complicated. The world has grown too complicated." "Beep, six." The senator glanced irritably at the time speaker. It had interrupted his speech. But he chose to ignore the interruption, that was the way to handle heckling. "I am a simple man. I come from simple parentage. I represent the simple people, the common people, the people with their feet on the ground. And the whole world needs to get back to the simple truths and honesties..." Jennings headed off the campaign speech which might appeal to the mountaineers of the senator's home state, where a man's accomplishments were judged by how far he could spit tobacco juice; it had little application in this bunker where the final test before the flight of man to the stars was being tried. "To us. Senator," he said gently, "this ship represents simple truths and honesties. We are, at this moment, testing the truths of all that mankind has ever thought of, theorized about, believed of the space which surrounds the Earth. A farmer may hear about new methods of growing crops, but the only way he knows whether they're practical or not is to try them on his own land." The senator looked at him impassively. Jennings didn't know whether he was going over or not. But he was trying. "All that ship, and all the instruments it contains; those represent the utmost honesties of the men who worked on them. Nobody tried to bluff, to get by with shoddy workmanship, cover up ignorance. A farmer does not try to bluff his land, for the crops he gets tells the final story. Scientists, too, have simple honesty. They have to have, Senator, for the results will show them up if they don't." T he senator looked at him speculatively, and with a growing respect. Not a bad speech, that. Not a bad speech at all. If this tomfoolery actually worked, and it might, that could be the approach in selling it to his constituents. By implication, he could take full credit, put over the impression that it was he who had stood over the scientists making sure they were as honest and simple as the mountain farmers. Many a man has gone into the White House with less. "Beep, five." Five more minutes. The sudden thought occurred to O'Noonan: what if he refused to press the dummy key? Refused to take part in this project he called tomfoolery? Perhaps they thought they were being clever in having him take part in the ship's launching, and were by that act committing him to something... "This is the final test, Senator. After this one, if it is right, man leaps to the stars!" It was Jennings' plea, his final attempt to catch the senator up in the fire and the dream. "And then more yapping colonists wanting statehood," the senator said dryly. "Upsetting the balance of power. Changing things." Jennings was silent. "Beep, four." "More imports trying to get into our country duty-free," O'Noonan went on. "Upsetting our economy." His vision was of lobbyists threatening to cut off contributions if their own industries were not kept in a favorable position. Of grimjawed industrialists who could easily put a more tractable candidate up in his place to be elected by the free and thinking people of his state. All the best catch phrases, the semantically-loaded promises, the advertising appropriations being used by his opponent. It was a dilemma. Should he jump on the bandwagon of advancement to the stars, hoping to catch the imagination of the voters by it? Were the voters really in favor of progress? What could this space flight put in the dinner pails of the Smiths, the Browns, the Johnsons? It was all very well to talk about the progress of mankind, but that was the only measure to be considered. Any politician knew that. And apparently no scientist knew it. Man advances only when he sees how it will help him stuff his gut. "Beep, three." For a full minute, the senator had sat lost in speculation. And what could he personally gain? A plan, full-formed, sprang into his mind. This whole ded could be taken out of the hands of no the military on charges of waste and corruption. It could be brought back into the control of private industry, where it belonged. He thought of vast tracts of land in his own state, tracts he could buy cheap, through dummy companies, places which could be made very suitable for the giant factories necessary to manufacture spaceships. As chairman of the appropriations committee, it wouldn't be difficult to sway the choice of site. And all that extra employment for the people of his own state. The voters couldn't forget plain, simple, honest O'Noonan after that! "Beep, two." beads increase on his forehead. His collar was already soaking wet. He had been watching the senator through two long minutes, terrible eon-consuming minutes, the impassive face showing only what the senator wanted it to show. He saw the face now soften into something approaching benignity, nobility. The head came up, the silvery hair tossed back. "Son," he said with a ringing thrill in his voice. "Mankind much reach the stars! We must allow nothing to stop that! No personal consideration, no personal belief, nothing must stand in the way of mankind's greatest dream!" His eyes were shrewdly watching the effect upon Jennings' face, ; measuring through him the effect such a speech would have upon the voters. He saw the relief spread over Jennings' face, the glow. Yes, it might work. "Now, son," he said with kindly tolerance, "tell me what you want me to do about pressing this key when the time comes." "Beep, one." And then the continuous drone while the seconds were being counted off aloud. "Fifty-nine, fifty-eight, fiftyseven -- " The droning went on while Jennings showed the senator just how to press the dummy key down, explaining it in careful detail, and just when. "Thirty-seven, thirty-six, thirtyfive -- " "Major!" Jennings called questioningly. "Ready, sir." "Professor!" "Ready, sir." "Press it. Senator!" Jennings called frantically. Already the automatic firing stud had taken over. The bellowing, roaring flames reached down with giant strength, nudging the ship upward, seeming to hang suspended, waiting. "Press it!" The senator's hand pressed the dummy key. He was committed. As if the ship had really been waiting, it lifted, faster and faster. "Major?" "I have it, sir." The major's hands were flying over his bank of controls, correcting the slight unbalance of thrusts, holding the ship as steady as if he were in it. Already the ship was beyond visual sight, picking up speed. But the pip on the radar screens was strong and clear. The drone of the strong. The senator sat and waited. He had done his job. He felt it perhaps would have been better to have had the photographers on the spot, but realized the carefully directed and rehearsed pictures to be taken later would make better vote fodder. "It's already out in space now, Senator," Jennings found a second of time to call it to the senator. The pips and the signals were bright and clear, coming through the ionosphere, the Heaviside layer as they had been designed to do. Jennings wondered if the senator could ever be made to understand the simple honesty of scientists who had worked that out so well and true. Bright and strong and clear. And then there was nothing! The screens were blank. The sounds were gone. silence. "It shut! It shut off!" Major Eddy's voice was shrill in amazement. "It cut right out. Colonel. No fade, no dying signal, just out!" It was the first time Jennings had ever heard a note of excitement in Professor Stein's voice. The phone began to ring, loud and shrill. That would be from the General's observation post, where he, too, must have lost the signal. The excitement penetrated the senator's rosy dream of vast acreages being sold at a huge profit, giant walls of factories going up under his remote-control ownership. "What's wrong?" he asked. Jennings did not answer him. "What was the altitude?" he asked. The phone continued to ring, but he was not yet ready to answer it. "Hundred fifty miles, maybe a little more," Major Eddy answered in a dull voice. "And then, nothing," he repeated incredulously. "Nothing." The phone was one long ring now, taken off of automatic signal and rung with a hand key pressed down and held there. In a daze, Jennings picked up the phone. "Yes, General," he answered as though he were no more than a robot. He hardly listened to the general's questions, did not need the report that every radarscope throughout the area had lost contact at the same instant. Somehow he had known that would be true, that it wasn't just his own mechanisms failing. One question did penetrate his stunned mind. "How is the senator taking it?" the general asked finally. "Uncomprehending, as yet," Jennings answered cryptically. "But even there it will penetrate sooner or later. We'll have to face it then." "Yes," the general sighed. "What about safety? What if it fell on a big city, for example?" "It had escape velocity," Jennings answered. "It would simply follow its trajectory indefinitely -- which was away from Earth." "What's happening now?" the senator asked arrogantly. He had been out of the limelight long enough, longer than was usual or necessary. He didn't like it when people went about their business as if he were not present. "Quiet during the test, Senator," Jennings took his mouth from the phone long enough to reprove the man gently. Apparently he got away with it, for the senator put his finger to his lips knowingly and sat back again. "The senator's starting to ask questions?" the general asked into the phone. "Yes, sir. It won't be long now." "I hate to contemplate it, Jim," the general said in apprehension. "There's only one way he'll transinto the air and lost." Then sharply. "There must be something you've done. Colonel. Some mistake you've made." T he implied accusation struck at Jennings' stomach, a heavy blow. "That's the way it's going to be?" he stated the question, knowing its answer. "For the good of the service," the general answered with a stock phrase. "If it is the fault of one officer and his men, we may be given another chance. If it is the failure of science itself, we won't." "I see," the colonel answered. "You won't be the first soldier, Colonel, to be unjustly punished to maintain public faith in the service." "Yes, sir," Jennings answered as formally as if he were already facing court martial. "It's back!" Major Eddy shouted in his excitement. "It's back, Colonel!" The pip, truly, showed startlingly clear and sharp on the radarscope, the correct signals were coming in sure and strong. As suddenly as the ship had cut out, it was back. "It's back, General," Colonel Jennings shouted into the phone, his eyes fixed upon his own radarscope. He dropped the phone without waiting for the general's answer. "Good," exclaimed the senator. "I was getting a little bored with nothing happening." "Have you got control?" Jennings called to the major. "Can't tell yet. It's coming in too fast. I'm trying to slow it. 'We'll know in a minute." "You have it now," Professor Stein spoke up quietly. "It's slowing. It will be in the atmosphere soon. Slow it as much as you can." As surely as if he were sitting in its control room, Eddy slowed the ship, easing it down into the atmosphere. The instruments recorded the results of his playing upon the bank of controls, as sound pouring from a musical instrument. "At the take-off point?" Jennings asked. "Can you land it there?" "Close to it," Major Eddy answered. "As close as I can." Now the ship was in visual sight again, and they watched its nose turn in the air, turn from a bullet hurtling earthward to a ship settling to the ground on its belly. Major Eddy was playing his instrument bank as if he were the soloist in a vast orchestra at the height of a crescendo forte. Jennings grabbed up the phone again. "Transportation!" he shouted. "Already dispatched, sir," the operator at the other end responded.  Through the periscope slit, Jennings watched the ship settle lightly downward to the ground, as though it were a breezeborne feather instead of its tons of metal. It seemed to settle itself, still, and become inanimate again. Major Eddy dropped his hands away from his instrument bank, an exhausted virtuoso. "My congratulations!" the senator included all three men in his sweeping glance. "It was remarkable how you all had control at every instance. My progress report will certainly bear that notation." The three men looked at him, and realized there was no irony in his words, no sarcasm, no realization at all of what had truly happened. "I can see a va-a-ast fleet of no-o-ble ships... the senator began to orate. But the roar of the arriving jeep outside took his audience away from him. They made a dash for the bunker door, no longer interested in the senator and his progress report. It was the progress report as revealed by the instruments on the ship which interested them more. The senator was close behind them as they piled out of the bunker door, and into the jeep, with Jennings unceremoniously pulling the driver from the wheel and taking his place. Over the rough dirt road toward the launching site where the ship had come to rest, their minds were bemused and feverish, as they projected ahead, trying to read in advance what the instruments would reveal of that blank period. The senator's mind projected even farther ahead to the fleet of space ships he would own and control. And he had been worried about some ignorant stupid voters! Stupid animals! How he despised them! What would he care about voters when he could be master of the spaceways to the stars? Jennings swerved the jeep off the dirt road and took out across the hummocks of sagebrush to the ship a few rods away. He hardly slacked speed, and in a swirl of dust pulled up to the side of the ship. Before it had even stopped, the men were piling out of the jeep, running toward the side of the ship. And stopped short. eyes, to absorb the incredible, they stared at the swinging open door in the side of the ship. Slowly they realized the iridescent purple glow around the doorframe, the rotted metal, disintegrating and falling to the dirt below. The implications of the tampering with the door held them unmoving. Only the senator had not caught it yet. Slower than they, now he was chugging up 'to where they had stopped, an elephantine amble. "Well, well, what's holding us up?" he panted irritably. Cautiously then, Jennings moved toward the open door. And as cautiously, Major Eddy and Professor Stein followed him. O'Noonan hung behind, sensing the caution, but not knowing the reason behind it. They entered the ship, wary of what might be lurking inside, what had burned open the door out there in space, what had been able to capture the ship, cut it off from its contact with controls, stop it in its headlong flight out into space, turn it, return it to their controls at precisely the same point and altitude. Wary, but they entered. At first glance, nothing seemed disturbed. The bulkhead leading to the power plant was still whole. But farther down the passage, the door leading to the control room where the instruments were housed also swung open. It, too, showed the iridescent purple disintegration of its metal frame. They hardly recognized the control room. They had known it intimately, had helped to build and fit it. They knew each weld, each nut and bolt. "The instruments are gone," the professor gasped in awe. It was true. As they crowded there in the doorway, they saw the gaping holes along the walls where the instruments had been inserted, one by one, each to tell its own story of conditions in space. The senator pushed himself into the room and looked about him. Even he could tell the room had been dismantled. "What kind of sabotage is this?" he exclaimed, and turned in anger toward Jennings. No one answered him. Jennings did not even bother to meet the accusing eyes. They walked down the narrow passage between the twisted frames where the instruments should have been. They came to the spot where the master integrator should have stood, the one which should have co-ordinated all the results of lifesustenance measurements, the one which was to give them their progress report. There, too, was a gaping hole -- but not without its message. Etched in the metal frame, in the same iridescent purple glow, were two words. Two enigmatic words to reverberate throughout the world, burned in by some watcher -- some keeper -- some warden. "Not yet" Manly Age in Earth's not-too-distant future, complete with legal duels, destructive "thrill parties", subjugated women, and such pleasant diversions as bullfights -- but what happens when an intelligent mutant bull enters the picture is moderately world-shaking. W. W. Skupeldyckle presents Dick, and others. On earth and in space. Humanity was the beneficiary of DornoTs great experiments, for it supplied -- By S. A. Lombino guinea pigs this time?" Krai asked, a touch of bitterness, tinging his voice. Dornal smiled a crooked smile, and stroked the carefully trimmed beard that clung to his fine jaw. His right eyebrow lifted ever so slightly, and his blue eyes twinkled with faint puzzlement. "Surely you're not concerned?" he asked Krai. "Excuse me," Krai said sarcastically, "I lost my head." He turned on his heel, presenting the broad back of his yellow tunic to Dornal, strode rapidly toward the .plasteel door at the far end of the chamber. "Just a moment!" Dornal's voice cracked like a whip. Krai turned to face his superior officer. "Yes?" he asked. "I'm not sure I like your attitude," Dornal said. The smile had vanished from his lips. He stood now, tall, proud, regal. The blackness of his thick, flowing hair and his short beard framed the perfect oval of his face. His brows were knitted in consternation, and the eyes that examined Krai were cold -- and a little cruel. Krai met Dornal's eyes with his own and slowly said, "And I'm not sure I like yours either." Dornal's hand dropped automatically to the stun gun hanging in the plastic holster at his waist. He seemed to think better of it, looped his thumb into his belt instead. Again, he smiled charmingly, his teeth flashing in a white, even grin. "Krai," he said, "don't be a fool." "Damnit, I'm not being a fool!" Krai shouted. "I'm just getting fed up. God, how much longer is this going to go on, this indiscriminate use of human beings as -- " "You're upset," Dornal said, not unkindly. "Borrow a ship, take a hop to the Moon. It'll do you good. Spend a little..." "I don't need a pleasure cruise to the Moon. It'd only remind me of the guinea pigs who made that trip possible." "All right then, Krai, what do you want?" "I want to resign," Krai said evenly. "I want to resign from your service. You can get a ne.w assistant. I want to leave your whole stinking government to you. You alone. I want you to handle all of your own rotten experiments. I want to... "That's enough!" Dornal's stun gun was in his hand now. With a quick motion of his other hand, Domal flicked the potency lever on the gun. Krai knew it was up full now, and Dornal would shoot to kill. "Go on," he said. "Squeeze the trigger." "I hope you're not daring me. Krai." Dornal's voice was cold. Krai suddenly spread his arms in despair. "Dornal, look, there are other ways. Man had other ways before you... before we began to tamper. Science was beginning to solve its own problems. It was just a matter of..." "It was a matter of decadence," Dornal interrupted. "Before I became Chief, science was floundering about in its own offal. Who cured cancer? Who defeated polio? Who reached the Moon? And Mars? Venus? Who, Krai, who?" "Do you think you did? Do you think for one minute it was you, Dornal?" "Yes," Dornal answered proudly. "It was. Krai. It was I who made these things possible. Before me, there was stupidity and blind sentiment. They depended on volunteers, and when they had no volunteers they had to fumble around with animals. By conscription of human beings these wonderful things have been made possible. Now, when we are on the verge of another great experiment, you show your chicken heart!" "Another experiment that will kill more people," Krai added. "Perhaps," Dornal admitted. "Perhaps. It doesn't matter. Perhaps they'll be successful the first time, and then no one would be lost." Krai spat in disgust. "Did they cure cancer the first time? How many humans did you murder to discover the cause of cancer?" "And how many did we save by discovering the cause and bringing about a cure?" "Don't say 'we'; It was all your doing." "On the contrary," Dornal said. "It was our doing." "How many space ships did you send out into the blackness before we reached the Moon?" Krai persisted. "And then Mars and Venus? How many lives did you throw away?" "I must remind you," Dornal said softly, "that I rule this universe. You are only my assistant, a position granted by my grace. I do what is best for the population." "And I help," Krai said. "Yes. You help." "Who are you to say that so many people must die to make things easier for those who survive them? No one has that power, Dornal. No one but..." "God," Dornal finished. "No one but God." Krai's lips tightened across his face. He turned to go. "I wasn't aware I'd dismissed you," Dornal snapped. Krai turned to face Domal. "Sir?" he asked. "The new ship leaves tomorrow at oh-two-hundred. I'll need only two men to man her. Good men, Krai. This isn't going to be the usual hop. We're reaching for the stars this time -- we're going to explore a new universe. Once we break the chains that bind us to our own solar system, nothing can stop us. Nothing!" "You'll have your two men, sir," Krai said. "Will that be all, sir?" "Dismissed," Dornal said. He slipped his stun gun back into its holster as Krai opened the plasteel door and left the chamber. T he enormous ship stood on spidery legs, nose pointed skyward. The sand spread out beneath it, bathed in the bluish light of the stars. Domal glanced upwards, his eyes darting from one pinpoint of light to the next. The slow smile crossed his face again, and his fingers ran smoothly through his short, immaculate beard. Impatiently, he glanced at his wrist-chron. The ship was set for blastoff at oh-two-hundred. It was now oh-one-fifty and there was still no sign of Krai. From the control tower, a loudspeaker blared, "Red minus five. Red minus five." The ground car screeched onto the desert sand, and Krai stepped out, waiting for the two young men to follow him. Together, they took long strides across the sand to where Domal was standing. "I knew you wouldn't fail me," he said to Krai. "Two more or less," Krai shrugged. "What's the difference now?" "Exactly," Domal agreed. "Two more or less." "Red minus three" the speaker blared. "Red minus three." "We'd better get aboard and show the men the ship, sir," Krai said. "They'll be blasting off in eight minutes." "Yes, yes," Dornal said. He glanced upwards at the stars as he mounted the ladder to the nose turret. Krai followed Dornal, but not too closely. Behind him were the two chosen men. They were strangely silent, a little pale. "Red minus one" the speaker announced. With a powerful backward thrust, Krai kicked the man behind him. There was a short grunt of surprise, as the first man tumbled backwards, down the ladder, carrying the second man with him. They rolled over in the sand as Krai raced up the remaining rungs and into the turret. "Red condition," the speaker warned. "Green minus five." Krai snapped the hatch shut and twisted the lock wheel. Dornal was peering up out of the blister, his back to Krai. "Soon it will all be mine," he said, scanning the univcrs#. "Yes," Krai agreed. Somewhere below, the powerful turbo-jets hummed into action, building power. The sound jostled Dornal. He turned to face Krai. "Green minus three" the speaker announced. Krai felt the ship tremble with the increasing power of the jets. In less than three minutes, the ship would be hurled into space, hurled into unknown universes. A look of surprise crossed Dornal's face as he stared around the cabin. "Where are the pilots? What's... He noticed the strained look on Krai's face then. "Green minus two. Standby for blastoff." "What are you... ?" "What's two more or less?" Krai shouted. Dornal reached for the space lock, fear marking his face. The desert sands began to glow red and yellow as the jets spewed flame into the darkness. "Green minus one." Dornal clawed at the lock wheel frantically. Krai smashed his fist into Dornal's hysterical features, and the other man crumpled to the deck. In another second, the force of acceleration threw Krai down unconscious beside the other man. Silently, the ship streaked for the stars. (Continued from page #I ) accuracy, the colonel put the ship into subspace drive. Korman leaned back at the conclusion of the brief activity on his control board, and met Gibson's pop-eyed stare. "Interesting, the things worth knowing," he commented. "How to make a weapon, for instance, or whether your enemy has it yet." He almost smiled at his prisoner's expression. "Or even better: knowing exactly how far your enemy has progressed and how fast he can continue, whether to stop him immediately or whether you can remain a step ahead." "B-but -- if both sides are irresistible..." Gibson stammered. Korman examined him contemptuously. "No irresistible weapon exists, or ever will!" he declared. "Only an irresistible process -- the transmission of secrets! You are living proof that no safeguards can defend against that." He savored Gibson's silent discomfort. "I am sure you know how far and how fast the Centaurian scientists will go, Gibson, since I guided you to every laboratory in that plant. Your memory may require some painful jogging when we reach the Solar System; but remember you shall!" "But you -- you were ordered to..." "You didn't think I was a Centaurian, did you?" sneered Korman. "After I just explained to you what is really irresistible?" I I Dear Friends: I was introduced to IP with the January # issue and was very pleasantly surprised. I am tempted to give IF the edge over level of intelligence in the science fiction field, but you realize how unfair this would be to John Campbell andor the publishers of judgment would be based on only one issue of IF. I must read at least # or # issues of IF, before I come to so momentous a decision. Well, at least two or three issues, anyway. My favorite story in the January was it a good story with an unusual twist, but I think it took courage to write and courage to publish it. I admire and respect all concerned for it. somewhat baffled as to what Rog was trying to tell. Is he "fer or agin" belief (faith) ? The title and the structure of the story seem to imply that he's "fer," but I got the distinct impression that he is a whopping logician with his tongue in his cheek. Although Rog does not elaborate on Martin Grant's theory, I think I know one answer (and I imagine there is room for more) to the enigmatic disappearances. To me, it is a very "obvious further step" in logic, as Rog makes Grant suspect there "must" be. Martin Grant's theory "contains within itself the proof that the universe must, by logical necessity, be constructed according to said theory. But observation and experience say this is not true." Martin Grant conjectures, "Either the universe is not constructed acording to logical necessity, or, the observable universe is not the universe." Now, assuming that Grant's theory was that the universe is an illusion, it follows (if I accept this theory) that MY that very same illusion! Illusion and existence become synonymous. The moment "I" become "aware" of this "fact," pop goes istence. The "logical necessity" is, logically, the simultaneity of the illusion-existence of universe and self. To be or not to be applies to the sum total. It is indivisible. Simple. Grant's statement, "observation and experience says this is not true" was correct prior to his own disappearance, but to him alone. It remained correct to each individual only to the point of the individual's disappearance. Naturally, Grant's conjectures are meaningless. -- George Fedak Uniondale, N. Y. We like you, Mr. Fedak, and want you to read at least # or # issues of IF. Please don't get too involved in this puzzle and disappear yourself! Dear Editor: You state that space travel will not appear before the year #. That's all well and good, but then you go on to say that man has to have the driving force of animal survival before he leaves the earth. You then state that there is still fore the earth will be overcrowded. By your own reasoning you seem to think the only motivation for man to leave earth, is that of his own survival. You are absolutely wrong. An overcrowded America was not the reason that explorers went into the deepest parts of Africa, into the unexplored sections of the Amazon, into forbidden Tibet. The three basic motives that will make man venture into space are Adventure, Curiosity and a Challenge. Adventure and Curiosity are self explanatory. I'll explain the third and most important motive, a Challenge. The challenge of going where no other human has ever been before, the challenge of standing on an alien planet where no other human foot has ever trod, the challenge of meeting and establishing contact with alien life forms, these challenges and many more will drive man on to the planets and finally to the stars. Adventure, Curiosity, and the Challenge will send man out into space, not survival. -- Lyle Kessler Philadelphia, Pa. A nice, idealistic concept -- and the sort of idea that makes science fiction possible, for which we're thankful! But some challenges do go unanswered. Africa, the Amazon, Tibet presented purely practical motives too, and besides could be attacked by individuals; space is going to take organization and an awful lot of money. But we'll make it yet! Dear Mr. Quinn: However, his factual research was lacking. On page #, Rog (Curt) states, "Your father can't be declared legally, ah, departed for two years." (The underscore is mine.) Being an ex-insurance man for many long years, indirectly connected with legal adjustments and actuarial departments, I am positive that vanished persons are not declared legally dead until seven years have passed. This factual error might detract reader interest with many fantasy would not want done. -- Elmer R. Kirk surface, making conditions there a matter for speculation. No water vapar or oxygen can be detected in Venus' atmosphere, but there is an abundance of carbon dioxide. The spaceship shown is traveling in a power-off attitude, but will make a tail-first landing under power -- if it finds anything to land on! (Drawings by Ed Valigursky) L  w gf V M t  J KKJ k K H I  I   k I pmmM r t M  B T I TW nlBr#!l Til I rrnMiiM I  Jl ;,i   I  yi , 'j ; y i ' ' A  A :' y-id ' iH ." sights encountered by space explorers Comprised of nil! ions of tiny mconfets in three bends, the rings ore brighter than the planet Itself. Although the distance from the mner to the outer edge is #I # miles, they ore microscopicolly thin by comporison ten miles at most -- ond fode owoy toward the inner edge. it All Stories New ond Complete CovcT by Krn illuslrdting A Case of Conuiencs I IF is publEUd hi-raonthlT bv Qdiroi Publkshmg CrupAiiy, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn PtiMisning ()o., Inc. Ofire of publication. # Lord Street. BuRalo, New York. Entered n Second Matter at Pon Office, Buffalo. NeM York. Subscription #L# (or # bsuts io U.S, and Pm:;eisions: Canada S# tor # lfues; elsewhere #.S#. Allow lour weeks for change of address. Ail storie.s appear i in thh manzine are Erlioo: any imilatity to actual persoas is coindarntal. Not responsible for uqa kited ait work or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in L.S.A. SOaC ft # aiUlA Al Iftne I A A the "# Almanack' issue of Punch, the British humorous weekly. This special issue contained an interplanetary section, partly hilarious and pardy incomprehensible. The cartoon, signed by "Sprod," pictures a moonscape. Three Earthmen in bubble helmets stand gazing at the smouldering, burned-out shell of their spaceship, which has obviously exploded and crashed. They are smiling. One of them is saying brightly, "Ah well, thank  gcness we still have our sense of humor." One of the basic assumptions, I suppose, is that a spaceship flying the Union Jack will be the first to reach the moon. The cartoonist is clearly poking some fond fun at his countrymen as svell as at science fiction. And while his prediction may be parsecs off the orbit, his attitude has my warm approval. I won't say it's more humor that science fiction needs. Good science fiction humor is hard to write, largely because good humor is hard to write, period. There are people who do marvelously well at it: William Tenn, Damon Knight, Frederic Brown, Mack Reynolds, Henry Kuttner, C. M. Kombluth, R. Bretnor, L. Sprague de Camp, Wilson Tucker, for instance. Fritz Leiber's fabulously funny "The Night He Cried" in Frederik Pohl's latest anthology. Star Science Fiction Sto ties, comes as somewhat of a surprise, but is evidence that any good writer can do it even though it's not his usual forte. I What have these people got besides basic writing talent, science fictional imaginations, and the wilU ingness to work hard for love of the medium first and remuneration second? Not just a sense of humor, surely. It's more all-encompassing tlian that. amount of healthy perspective, an ability to step back from a problem and view it from various angles. This is a highly desirable quality for any writer and any person, but that doesn't mean everyone who writes science fiction has it! There has always been bad science fiction. We're extremely fortunate that the percentage is not noticeably higher than before, now that the field has expanded so enormously. The world today is in many ways a gloomy and frightening place. It will quite likely get worse before it gets better. It's even possible that man wiU blow himself and hia works completely to smithereens... Wait a minute, though -- complelely to smithereens? Shucks, almost nothing succeeds that well. Somebody and something would be left after the smash. And it wouldn't have to be a primitive tribe of rainworshippers in the Brazilian jungles, one lone man who just happened to be down in a mine shaft (while all the miners elsewhere in the world were out on strike, presumably), or (tltis one is more rare now, anyway) Prof. Superpill and his carefully iclcctcd group of vegetarians in their invisible dome of force at the South Pole. It could be a small town in the Ozarks; you find some surprisingly intellectual and creative crannies of culture tlicrc, believe it or not! It could be a comic opera-type Balkan kingdom, population # including the village werewolf and a beautiful princess, which has been so neutral for centuries that it has even prohibited radios for fear the children might learn the word "war." It could... But you get the idea; take it from there and write a story! Another theme dear to would-be science fiction writers these davs is the idea of Earth's civilization being unacceptable to the representatives of tlie Galactic Federation. These superbeings, you know, put up "No Trespassing" signs just beyond our atmosphere, reverse the laws of physics so that rockets do need somediing to push against, or just plain smack us nut of existence with a cosmic, flyswatter. It can be done well, and sometimes is. But since most of us are incapable of figuring out how completely rational beings would act, and even less capable of making such beings convincing on paper, there's little excuse for writing it again without a new twist. Why not give the Galactic Federation some eccentricities? If an unhappy ending is called for, it sliould l)e used. (I keep insisting that the essence of tme tragedy is its inevitability. I get into more darned arguments that way -- but can you prove me wrong with examples from literature?) I won't reject a good story if it's unhappy. It can even be unpleasant; shock value can be highly effective if controlled properly. I won't buy a bad story just for a few yuks. But I'll always suspect that the writer who is a healthier specimen than the constant doom-crier. The lowliest newspaper columnist can indulge in all the dire forebodings wc need. If science fiction is going to he distinguishable from a newspaper column, it has no choice but to consider the infinite possibilitic.s of our not blowing ourselves up tomorrow. If the world of today looks bleak to you, extend its trends until they become ridiculous. Remember that there will always be counter-trends. Or forget them all. and create a whole new world. If it's consistent within its own terms, it can be the basis for a good story. Nobody will write that story while worrying himself sick over when the bombs are going to fall. He'll write it when he starts considering ways to keep the bombs from falling. And that includes, of course, the repeal of the law of gravity. -- Its Rarely, if ever, has science fiction plumbed so deeply and with such sensitivity the depths of human thoughts and emotions as in this case. For here, Earthmens vote has a direct effect upon the future of a planet, their own culture and the universe itself. By James Blish Hiustrotd by Ed Ernst) T he stone door slammed. It was Cleaver's trade-mark : there had never been a door too heavy, complex, or cleverly tracked to prevent him from closing it with a sound like a clap of doom. And ro planet in the imiverse could possess an air sufficiently thick and curtained with damp to muffle that sound. Not even Lithia. Ruiz-Sanchez continued to read. It would take Cleaver's impatient fingers quite a while to free him from his jungle suit, and in the meantime the problem remained. It was a century-old problem, first propounded in #, but the Church had never cracked it. And it was diabolically complex (that adverb was official, precisely chosen and literally intended). Even the novel which proposed the case was on the Index, and Father Ramon Ruiz-Sanchez, S. J., had access to it only by virtue of his Order. He turned the page, scarcely hearing the stamping and muttering in the hall. On and on the text ran, becoming more tangled, more evil, more insoluble with every w'ord : "... and Magravius knows from .spies that Anita has formerly committed double sacrilege with Michael, vulgo Cerularius, a perpetual curate, who wishes to seduce Eugenius. Magravius threatens to have Anita molested by Sulla, an orffiodox savage (and leader of a band of twelve mercenaries, the Sullivani), who desires to procure Felicia for Gregorius, Leo, Viteilius and Macdugalius, four excavators, if she will not yield to him and also deceive Honuphrius by rendering conjugal duty when demanded. Anita, who claims to have discovered incestuous temptations from Jeremias and Eugenius -- " There now, he was lost again. He backtracked resignedly. Jeremias and Eugenius were -- ? Oh, yes, the "brotherly lovers" at the beginning of the case, consanguineous to the lowest degree with both Felicia and Honuphrius -- the latter the apparent prime villain and the husband of Anita. It was Magravius, who seemed to admire Honuphrius, who had been urged by the slave Maritius to solicit Anita, seemingly under the urging of Honuphrius himself. This, however, had come to Anita through her tirewoman Fortissa, who was or at one time had been the common-law wife of Mauritius himself and had borne him children -- so that the whole story had to be weighed with the utmost caution. And that entire initial confession of Honuphrius had come out under torture -- voluntarily consented to, to be sure, but still torture. The Fortissa-Mauritius relationship was even more dubious, really only a supposition of Father Ware's, though certainly a plausible one considering the public repentance of Sulla after the death of Canicula, who was -- yes, that was correct, Mauritius' second wife. No, his first wife; he had never been legally married to Fortissa. It was Magravius' desire for had confused him diere. "Ramon, give me a hand, will you?" Cleaver shouted suddenly. "I'm stuck and -- and I don't feel well." The Jesuit biologist arose in alarm. Such an admission from Cleaver was imprecedented. a pouf of woven rushes, stuffed with a sphagnum-like moss, which was bulging at the equator under his weight. He was half-way out of his glass-fiber jungle suit, and his face was white and beaded with sweat, although his helmet was already off. His uncertain fingers tore at a jammed zipper. "Paul! Why didn't you say you were #I in the first place? Here, let go of that; you're only making things worse. What happened?" "Don't know exactly," Cleaver said, breathing heavily but relinquishing the zipper. Ruiz-Sanchez knelt beside him and began to work it carefully back onto its tracks. "Went a ways into the jungle to see if I could spot more pegmatite lies; it's been in the back of my mind that a pilot-plant for turning out tritium might locate here eventually -- ought to be able to produce on a prodigious scale." "God forbid," Ruiz-Sanchez said under his breath. "Hm? Anyhow, I didn't see anything. Few lizards, hoppers, the usual thing. Then I ran up against a plant that looked a little like a pineapple, and one of the spines jabbed right through my suit and nicked me. Didn't seem serious, but -- " "But we don't have the suits for nothing. Let's look at it. Here, put up your feet and we'U haul those boots off. Where did you get -- oh. Well, it's angry-looking, I'll give it that. Any other symptoms?" "My mouth feels raw," Cleaver complained. "Open up," the Jesuit commanded. When Cleaver complied, it becajne evident that his complaint had been the understatement of the year. The mucosa inside his mouth wa.s nearly covered with ugly and undoubtedly painful ulcers, their edges as sharply defined as if cut with a cookie-punch. Ruiz-Sanchez made no comment, however, and deliberately changed his expression to one of carefully calculated dismissalIf the physicist needed to minimize his ailments, it was all right with Ruiz-Sanchez. An alien planet is not a good place to strip a man of his inner defenses. "Come into the lab," he said. "You've got some inflammation in there." Cleaver aro.se, a little unsteadily, and followed the Jesuit into the laboratory. There Ruiz-Sanchez took .smears from several of the ulcers onto microscope slides and Gram-stained them. He filled the time consumed by the staining process with the ritual of aiming the microscope's substage mirror out cloud. When the timer's alarm went off, he rin-sed and flame-dried the first slide and slipped it under the clips. As he had half feared, he saw chetes which would have indicated a case of ordinary, Earthly, Vincent's angina -- which the clinical picture certainly suggested. Cleaver's oral flora were normal, though on the increase because of all the exposed ti.ssue. "I'm going to give you a shot," Ruiz-Sanchez said gently. "And then I think you'd better go to bed." "The hell with that," Cleaver said. "I've got nine times as much work to do as I can hope to clean up, without any additional handicaps." "Illness is never convenient,' Ruiz-Sanchez agreed. "But why worry about losing a day or so, since you're in over your head anyhow?" "What have I got?" Cleaver asked suspiciously. "'ou haven't got anything." Ruiz-Sanchez said, almost regretfully. "That is, you aren't infected. But your 'pineapple' did you a bad tuni. Most plants of that family on Litlua bear thorns or leaves coated with polysaccharides that are poisonous to us. The particular glucoside you got today was evidently squill, or something closely related to it. It produces symptoms like tJiose of trench-moudi, but a lot harder to clear up." "How long will that take?" Cleaver said. He was still balking, but he was on the defensive now. "Several days at least -- until you've built up an immimity. The shot I'm going to give you is a gamma globulin specific against squill, and it ought to moderate the symptoms until you've developed a high antibody tiler of your own. But in the process you're going to run quite a fever, Paul; and I'll have to keep you well stuffed with antipTetics, because even a little fever is dangerous in this climate." "I know it," Cleaver said, mollified. "The more I leain about this place, the less disposed I am to vote 'aye' when the time comes. Well, bring on your shot -- and your aspirin. I suppose I ought to be glad it isn't a bacterial infection, or the Snakes would be jabbing me full of antibiotics," "Small chance of that," RuizSanchez said. "I don't doubt that the Lithians have at least a hundred different antibiotics we'll be able to use eventually, but -- there, that's all there is to it; you can relax now -- but we'll have to study their pharmacology from the CTound up, first. All right, Paul, nit the hammock. In about ten minutes you're going to wish you were bom dead, that I promise you." face under its thatch of dirty blond hair was craggy and powerful even in illness. He stood up and deliberately rolled down his deeve. "Not much doubt about how you'll vote, either," he said. "You like this planet, don't you, Ramon? It's a biologist's paradise, as far as I can "I do like it," the priest said, smiling back. He followed Cleaver into the small room which served them both as sleeping quarters. Except for the window, it strongly resembled the inside of a jug. The walls were curving and continuous, and were made of some ceramic material which never beaded or felt wet, but riever seemed to be quite dry, either. The hammocks wer slung from hooks which projected smoothly from the walls. "But don't forget that Lithia's my first extrasolar planet. I think I'd find any new, habitable world fascinating. The infinite mutability of lifeforms, and the cunning inherent in each of them... It's all amazing and very delightful." Cleaver sprawled heavily in his hammock. After a decent interval, Ruiz-Sanchez took the liberty of heaving up after him the foot he seemed to have forgotten. Cleaver didn't notice. The reaction was setting in. "Read me no tracts, Father," Cleaver said. Then: "I didn't mean that. I'm sorry... But for a physicist, this place is hell... You'd better get me that aspirin. I'm cold." "Surely." Ruiz-Sanchez went quickly back into the lab, made up a salicylate-barbiturate paste in one of the Lithians' superb mortars, and pressed it into a set of pills. He wished he could stamp each pill "Bayer" before it dried -- if Cleaver's personal cure-all was aspirin, it would be just as well to let him think he was taking aspirin -- but he had no dies for the purpose. He took two of the pills back to Cleaver with a mug and a carafe of Berkefield-filtered water. The big man was already asleep; Ruiz-Sanchez woke him. Cleaver would sleep longer and awake farther along the road to recovery if he were done that small unkindness now. As it was, he hardly noticed when the pills were put down him, and soon resumed his heavy, troubled breathing. That done, Ruiz-Sanchez returned to the front room of the house, sat down, and began to inspect the jungle suit. The tear which the plant spine had made was not difficult to find, and would be easy to repair. It w-ould be much harder to repair Cleaver's notion that their defenses were invulnerable, and that plants could be blundered against with impunity. Ruiz-Sanchez wondered if one or both of the other members of the Commission still shared that notion. Cleaver had called the thing which had brought him low a "pineapple." .-ny biologist could have told Cleaver that even on Earth the pineapple is a prolific and dangerous weed, edible only by a happy and irrelevant accident. In Hawaii, as Ruiz-Sanchez remembered, the tropical forest was quite impassible to anyone not wearing heav' boots and tough trou.sers. 'Fhe close-packed, irrepresdble pineapples outside of the plantations could tear unprotected legs to ribbons. The Jesuit turned the suit over. The zipper that Cleaver had jammed was made of a plastic into the molecule of which had been incorporated radicals from various Terrestrial anti-fungal substances, chiefly tliiolutin. The fungi of Lithia respected those, all right, but die elaborate molecule of die plastic itself had a tendency, under Lithian humidities and licats, to undergo polymerization more or less spontaneously. That was what had happened here . One of the teeth of the zipper had changed into something resembling a piece of popcorn. Sanchez worked. There was a routed puff of sound, and the room was illuminated with small, soft yellow flames from recesses in every wall. The burning substance was natural gas, of which Lithia had an inexhaustible and constantly renevsed supply. The flames were lit by adsorption against a catalyst, as soon as the gas came on. A lime mantle, which worked on a rack and pinion of heatproof glass, could be moved into the flame to provide a brighter liglu; but the priest liked the yellow light the Lithians themselves preferred, and used the limelight only in the laboratory. For .some things, of course, the Earlhmen had to liave electricity, for which they had been forced to supply their own generators. The Lithians had a far more advanced science of electrostatics than Earth had, but of electrodynamics they knew comparatively little. They had discovered magnetism only a few years before, since natural magnets were unknown on the planet. They had fint observed the phenomenon, not in iron, of which they had next to none, but in liquid oxygen -- a difficult substance from which to make generator coil cores! The results in terms of Lithian civilization were peculiar, to an Earthman. The tall, reptilian people had built several huge electrostatic generators and scores of little ones, but had nothing even vaguely resembling telephones. They knew a great deal on the practical level about electrolysis, but carrying a current over a long distance -- sa' one kilometer -- was regarded by them as impossible. They had no electric motors as an Earthman would understand the term, but made fast intercontinental flights in jet aircraft powered by static electricity. Cleaver said he understood this feat, but RuizSanchez certainly did not They had a completely marvelous radio network, which among other things provided a "live" navigational grid for the whole planet, zeroed on (and here perhaps was the epitome of the Lithian genius for paradox) a tree. Yet they had never produced a commercial vacuum tube and their atomic theory was not much more sophisticated than Democritus' had been! These paradoxes, of course, could be expired in part by the things that Lithia lacked. Like any large rotating mass, Lithia had a magnetic field of its own, but a planet which almost entirely lacks iron provides its people with no easy way to discover magnetism. Radioactivity, at least until the Earthmen had arrived, had been entirely imknown on the surface of Lithia, which explained the hazy atomic theory. Like the Greeks, the Lithians had discovered that friction between silk and glass produces one kind of charge, and between silk and amber another. They had gone on from there to Widmanstetten generators, electrochemistry, and the static jet -- but without suitable metals they were unable to make batteries or do more than begin to study electricity in motion. In the fields where they had been given fair clues, they had made enormous preess. Despite the constant cloudiness and endemic drizzle, their descriptive astronomy was excellent, thanks to the fortunate presence of a small moon which had drawn their attention outward early. This in turn made for basic advances in optics. Their chemistry took full advantage of both the seas and the jungles. From the one they took such vital and diversified products as agar, iodine, salt, trace metals, and foods of many kinds. The other provided nearly everything else that they needed: resins, rubbers, woods of all degrees of hardness, edible and essential oils, vegetable "butters," rope and other filers, fruits and nuts, tannins, dyes, drugs, cork, paper. Indeed, the sole forest product which they did not take was game, and the reason for this oversight was hard to find. It seemed to the Jesuit to be religious -- yet the Lithians had no religion, and they certainly ate many of the creatures of the sea without qualms of conscience. H e dropped the jungle suit into his lap with a sigh, though the popcomed tooth still was not completely trimmed back into shape. Outside, in the humid darkness, Lithia was in full concert. It was a vital, somehow fresh, newsounding drone, covering most of the sound spectrum audible to an Earthman. It came from the myriad insects of Lithia. Many of these had wiry, ululating songs, almost like birds, in addition to the scrapes and chirrups and wing-buzzes of the insects of Earth. Had Eden sounded like that, before evil had come into the world? Ruiz-Sanchez wondered. Certainly his native Peru sang no such song. Qualms of conscience -- these were, in the long run, his essential business, rather than the taxonomical jungles of biology, which had already become tangled into nearhopelessness on Earth before spaceflight had come along to add whole new volumes of puzzles. It was only interesting that the Lithians were bipedal reptiles with marsupial-like pouches and pteropsid circulatory systems. But it was vital that they had qualms of conscience -- if they did. He and the other three men were on Lithia to decide whether or not Lithia would be suitable as a port of call for Earth, without risk of damage to either Earthmen or Lithians. The other three men w'ere primarily scientists, but RuizSaruhez own recommendation would in the long run depend upon conscience, not upon taxonomy. He looked down at the still-imperfect suit with a troubled face until he heard Cleaver moan. Then he arose and left the room to the softly hissing flames. II  F rom the oval fmnt window of the house to which Cleaver and Ruiz-Sanchez had been assigned, the land slanted away with insidious gentleness toward the ill-defined south edge of Lower Bay, a part of the Gulf of Sfath. Most of the area was salt marsh, as was the sea-side nearly everywhere on Lithia. When the tide was In, the flats w'cre covered to a depth of a meter or so almost half the way to the house. When it was out, as it was tonight, the jungle symphony was augmented by the agonized barking of a score of species of lungfish. Occasionally, when the small moon was unoccludcd and the light from the city was unusually bright, one could sec the leaping shadow of some amphibian, or the sinuously advancing sigmoid track of the Lithian crocodile, in pursuit of some prey faster than itself but which it would nonetheless capture in its own geological good time. Still farther -- and usually invisible even in daytime because of the pervasive mists -- was the opposite shore of Lower Bay, beginning with tidal flats again, and then more jungle, which ran unbroken thereafter for hundreds of kilometers to the equatorial sea. Behind the house, visible from the sleeping room, was the rest of the city, Xoredeshch Sfath, capitol of the great southern continent. Like all the cities the Lithians built, its most striking characteristic to an Earthman was that it hardly seemed to be there at all. The Lithian houses were low, and made of the earth which had been dug from their foundations, so that they tended to fade into tlic soil even to a trained observer. Most of the older buildings were rectangular, put together without mortar of ramraed-earth blocks. Over tlie course of decades the blocks continued to pack and settle themselves until it became easier to abandon an unwanted building than to tear it down. One of the first setbacks the Earthmen had suffered on Lithia had come through an ill-advised offer to raze gravity-polarized explosive unknown to the Lithians. The warehouse in question was large, thickwalled, and three Lithian centuries old. The explosion created an uproar which greatly distressed the Lithians, but when it was over, the storehouse still stood, unshaken. Newer structures were more conspicuous when the sun was out, for just during the past half century the Lithians had begun to apply their enormous knowledge of ceramics to house construction. The new houses assumed thousands of fantastic, quasi-biological shapes, not quite amorphous but not quite resembling any form in experience either. Each one was unique and to the choice of its owner, yet all markedly shared the character of the community and tlie earth from which it sprang. These houses, too, would have blended well with the background of soil and jungle, except that most of them were glazed and so shone blindingly for brief moments on sunny days when the light and the angle of the observer was just right. These shifting coruscations, seen from the air, had been the Elarthmen's first intimation that there was intelligent life in the ubiquitous Lithian jungle. Ruiz-Sanchez looked out the sleeping-room window at the city for at least the ten thousandth time on his way to Cleaver's hammock. Xoredeshch Sfath was alive to him ; it never looked the same twice. He found it singularly beautiful. He checked Cleaver's pulse and respiration. Both were fast, even for Lithia, where a high carlxn dioxide partial pressure raised the pH of the blood of Earthmen to an abnormal level and stimulated the breathing reflex. The priest judged, however, diat Cleaver was in bttle danger as long as his actual oxygen utilization was not increased. At the moment he was certainly sleeping deeply -- if not very restfully -- and it would do no harm to leave him alone for a little while. Of course, if a wild allosaur should blunder into the city... But that was about as likely as the blundering of an untended elephant into the heart of New Delhi. It could happen, but almost never did. And no other dangerous Lithian animal could break into the house if it were sealed. carafe of fre water in the niche beside the hammock, went into the hall, and donned boots, macintosh and waterproof hat. The night souneb of Lithia burst in upon him as he opened the stone door, along with a gust of sea air and the characteristic halogen odor most people call "salty." There was a thin drizzle falling, making haloes around the lights of Xoredeshch Sfath. Far out, on the water, another light moved. That was probably the coastal side-wheeler to Yllith, the enormous island which stood athwart the Upper Bay, barring the Gulf of Sfath as a whole from the equatorial sea. Outside, Ruiz-Sanchez turned the wheel which extended bolts on every margin of the door. Drawing from his macintosh a piece of soft chalk, he marked on sheltered tablet designed for such uses the Lithian symbols which meant "Illness is here." That would be sufficient. Anybody who chose to could open the door simply by turning the wheel, but the Lithians were overridingly social beings, who respected their own conventions as they would respect natural law. That done, Ruiz-Sanchez set out for the center of the city and the Mes.sage Tree. The asphalt streets shone in the yellow lights cast from windows, and in the white light of the mantled, wide-spaced street lanterns. Occasionally he passed the eight-foot, kangaroo-like shape of a Lithian, and the two exchanged glances of frank curiosity, but there were not many Lithians abroad now. They kept to their houses at night, doing Ruiz-Sanchez knew not what. He could see them frequently, alone or by twos or threes, moving behind the oval windows of the houses he passed. Sometimes they seemed to be talking. What about? It was a nice question. The Lithians had no crime, no newspapers, no household communications systems, no arts that could be differentiated clearly from their crafts, no political parties, no public amusements. no nations, no games, no religions, no sports, no celebrations. Surely they didn't spend every waking minute of their lives exchanging knowledge, disc ussing philosophy or history? Or did they? Perhaps, Ruiz-Sanchez thought suddenly, they simply went inert once they were inside their jugs, like so many pickles! But even as the thought came, the priest passed another house, and saw tlicir silhouettes moving to and fro... A puff of wind scattered rool droplets in his face. Automatically, he quickened his step. If the night were to turn out especially windy, there would doubtless be many voices coming and going in the Message Tree. It loomed ahead of him now, a sequoia-like giant, standing at the mouth of the valley of the River Sfath -- the valley which led in gicat serpentine folds into the heart of the continent, where Gleshchetk Sfatli, or Blood Lake in English, poured out its massive torrents. As llie winds came and went along the valley, the tree nodded and swayed. With every movement. tlie tree's root system, which underlay the entire city, tugged and distorted the buried crystalline cliff upon which the city had been founded, a.s long ago in Iwilhian prehistoiy as was the founding of Rome on Earth. At every such pressure, the buried cliff responded whh a vast lu'art-pulse of radio waves -- a pulse detectable not only all over Lithia, but far out in space as well. These bursts, of course, were sheer noise. How the Lithians modifu.'d them to carry information -- not only messages, but the amazing navigational grid, the planetwide time-signal system, and much more -- was something Ruiz-Sanchez never expected to Icam, although Cleaver said it was all perfectly simple once you understood it. It had something to do with semi-conduction and solid-state physics, which -- again according to Cleaver -- the Lithians understood better than any Earthman. Almost all knowledge, Ruiz-Sanchez reflected with amusement, fell into that category. It was either perfectly simple once you understood it, or else it fell apart into fiction. As a Jesuit -- even here, # light-years from Rome -- Ruiz-Sanchez knew something about knowledge that Cleaver would never learn: that all "knowledge goes through both stages, the annunciation out of noise into fact and the disintegration back into noise again. The process involved was the making of increasingly finer distinctions. The outcome was an endless series of theoretical catastrophes. The residuum was faith. T he high, .sharply vaulted chamber, like an egg stood on its large end, which had been burned out in the base of the Message Tree was droning with life as Ruiz-Sanchez entered it. It would have been difficult to imagine anything less like an Earthly telegraph office or other message center, however. Around the circumference of the lower end of the egg there was a continual whirling of tall figures, Lithians entering and leaving through the many doorlcss entrances and changing places in the swirl of movement like so many electrons passing from orbit to orbit. Despite their numbers, their voices were pitched so low that Ruiz-Sanchez could hear blended in with their murmuring the soughing of the wind through the enormous branches far aloft. The inner side of this band of moving figures was bounded by a high railing of black, polished wood, evidently cut from the phloem of the tree itself. On the other side of this Encke's Division a thin circlet of Lithians took and passed out messages steadily and without a moment's break, handling the total load faultlessly -- if one were to judge by the way the outer band was kept in motion -- and without apparent effort by memory alone. Occasionally one of these specialists would leave the circlet and go to one of the desks which were scattered over most of the rest of the sloping floor, increasingly thinly, like a Crepe Ring, to confer there with the desk's occupant. Then he went back to the black rail, or, sometimes, he took the desk and its previous occupant went to the rail. The bowl deepened, the desks thinned, and at the very center stood a single, aged Lithian, his hands clapped to the ear-whorls behind his heavy jaws, his eyes covered by their nictitating membrane, only his nasal fossae and heat-receptive postnasal pits uncovered. He spoke to no one, and no one consulted him -- but the absolute stasis in which he stood was obviously the reason, the sole reason, for the torrents and countertorrento of p)eople which poured along the outermost ring. Ruiz-Sanchez stopped, astonished. He had never himself been to the Message Tree before -- communicating with the other two earthmen on Lithia had been, until now, one of Cleavers tasks -- and the priest found that he had no idea what to do. The scene before him was more suggestive of a bourse than of a message center in any ordinary sense. It seemed unlikely that so many Lithians could have urgent personal messages to send each time the winds were active; yet it seemed equally uncharacteristic that the Lithians, with their stable, abundance-based economy, should have any equivalent of stock or commodity brokerage. There seemed to be no choice, however, but to plunge in, try to reach the polished black rail, and ask one of those who stood on the other side to try and raise Agronski or Michclis again. At worst, he supposed, he could only be refused, or fail to get a hearing at all. He took a deep breath. Simultaneously, his left elbow was caught in a firm four-fingered grip. Letting the stored breath out again in a snort of surprise, the priest looked around and up at the solicitously bent head of a Lithian. Under the long, trap-like mouth, the being's wattles were a delicate, curious aquamarine, in contrast to its vestial comb, wliich was a pemiaiu'nt and silvery sapphire, shot through with veins of fuchsia. "You are Ruiz-Sanchez," the Lithian said in his own language. The priest's name, unlike that of most of the other Earthmen, fell easily in that tongue. "I know you by your robe." This was pure chance; any Earthnian out in the rain in a macintosh would have been identified as RuizSanchez, becau.se he was the only Earthinan who seemed to the Lithians to w'car the same garment indoors. "I am Chtexa, the metallist, who consulted with you earlier on medicine and on your mission and other matters. We have not seen you here before. Do you wish to talk with the Tree?" "I do," Ruiz-Sanchez said gratefully. "It is so that I am new here. Can you explain to me what to do?" "Yes, but not to any profit," Chtexa said, tilting his head so that his completely iry pupils .shone down into Ruiz-Sanchez' eyes. "One must have obscrvi'd the ritual, which is very complex, until it is habit. Wc have grown up with it, but you I think lack the coordination to follow it on the fint attempt. If I may bear your message instead..." "I would be most indebted. It is for our colleagues Agion.ski and Michelis. They are at Xoicdcshch Gton on the northeast continent, at about # East # North -- " "Yes, the second benchmark, at the outlet of the Lesser Lakes; the city of the potters. And you will say?" "That they arc to join us now, here, at Xoredeshch Sfalh. And that our time on Litlila is almost up." "That me regards. But I will bear it." whirling crowd, and RuizSanchez was left behind, considering again his thankfulness at the pains he Itad taken to learn the Lithian language. Several members of the Terrestrial commission had shown a regrettable lack of interest in that tongue: "Let 'em learn English," had been Cleaver's classic formulation. Ruiz-Sanchez was all the loss likely to view this idea sympathetically considering that his owT) native language was Spanish and his preferred foreign language German. T# Agronslu had taken a slightly more sophisticated stand: it was not, he said, that Lithian was too difficult to pronounce -- certainly it wasn't any harder than Arabic or Russian on the soft palate -- but, after all, "it's hopeless to attempt to grasp the concepts that lie behind a really alien language in the time we have to spend here, isn't it?" To both views, Michelis had said nothing; he had simply set out to learn to read the language first, and if he found his way from there into speaking it, he would not be surprised and neither would his corifreres. That was Michelis' way of doing things, thorough and untheoretical at the same time. As for the other two approaches, RuizSanchez thout privately that it was close to criminal to allow any contact-man for a new planet ever to leave Earth with such parochial notions. Of Cleaver's tendency to refer to the Lithians themselves as "the Snakes," Ruiz-Sanchez' opinion was such as to be admissible only to his remote confessor. And in view of what lay before him now in this egg-shaped hollow, what was Ruiz-Sanchez to think of Cleaver's conduct as communica tions officer for the group? Surely he could never have transmitted or received a single message through the Tree, as he had claimed to have done. Probably he had never been nearer to the Tree than the priest had been. Of course, it went vithout saying that he had been in contact with Agromki and Michelis by some method, but that method evidently had been a private transmitter concealed in his luggage... Yet, physicist though he most definitely was not, Ruiz-Sanchez rejected that solution on the spot; he had some idea of the practical difficulties of ham radio on a world like Lithia, swamped as it was on all wavelengths by the tremendous pulses which the Tree wrung from the buried crystalline cliff. The problem was beginning to make him feel decidedly uncomfortable. Then Chtexa was back, recognizable not so much by any physical detail -- for his wattles were now the same ambiguous royal purple as those of most of the other Lithians in the crowd -- as by the fact that he was obviously bearing down upon the Earthman. "I have sent your message," he said at once. "It is recorded at Xoredehch Gton. But the other Earthmen are not there. They have not been in the city for some days." That was impossible. Cleaver had said he had spoken to Agronski only a day ago. "Are you sure?" RuizSanchez said cautiously. "It admits of no uncertainty. The house which we gave them stands empty. The many things which they had with them are gone." The tall shape raised its small hands in a gesture which might have been solicitous. "I think this is an ill word. I dislike to bring it you. The words which you brought me when we first met were full of good." "Thank you. Don't worry," RuizSanchez said distractedly. "No man could hold the bearer responsible for the word, surely." "Whom else would he hold responsible for it? At least that is our custom," Chtexa said. "And under it, you have lost by our exchange. Your words on iron have been shown to contain great good. I would take pleasure in showing you how we have used them, especially so since I have brought you in return an ill message. If you would sliare my house tonight, without prejudice to your work..." Sternly Ruiz-Sanchez stifled his sudden excitement. Here was the first chance, at long last, to see something of the private life of Lithia! And through that, perhaps, gain some inkling of the moral life, the role in which God had cast the Lithians in the ancient drama of good and evil in tlie past and in the times to come. Until that w'as knpwn, the Lithians in their Eden were only spuriously good: all reason, all organic thinking machines, souls. But there was the hard fart that he had left behind a sick man. There was not much chance that Cleaver would awaken before morning; he had been given nearly # mg. of sedative per kilogram of body weight. But if his burly frame should somehow throw it off, driven perhaps by some anaphylactic crisis impossible to rule out this early, he would need prompt attention. At the very least, he would want badly for the sound of a human voice on this planet which he hated and which had struck him down. Still, the danger to Cleaver was not great. He most certainly did not require a minute-byminute vigil. There was, after all, such a thing as an excess of devotion, a form of pride among the pious which the Church had long found peculiarly difficult to stifle. At its worst, it produced a St. Simon Stylites, who though undoubtedly acceptable to God had for centuries len very bad public relations for tlie Church. And had Cleaver really earned the kind of devotion Ruiz-Sanchez had been proposing, up to now, to tender him as a creature of God? And with a whole planet at stake, a whole people -- A lifetime of meditaticHi over just such problems of conscience had made Ruiz-Sanchez, like any T# other gifted member of his Order, quick to find his way through all but the most complex ethical labyrinths to a decision.' An unsympathetic observer might almost have called him "agile." "Thank you," he said, a little shakily. "I will share your house very gladly." Ill you big slob. Where the hell have you been?" Cleaver groaned and tried to turn over. At his first motion, the world began to rock gently, sickeningly. His mouth was filled with burning pitch. "Cleaver, turn out. It's me -- Agronski. Where's the Father? What's wrong? Why didn't we hear from you? Look out, you'll -- " The warning came too late and Cleaver could not have understood it anyhow; he had been profoundly asleep and had no notion of his situation in space or time. At his convulsive twist away from the nagging voice, the hammock rotated on its hooks and dumped him. He struck the floor stunningly, .taking the main blow across his right shoulder, though he hardly felt it as yet. His feet, not yet part of him at all, still remained afloat far aloft, twisted in the hammock webbing. "Good lord!" There was a brief chain of footsteps, like chestnuts dropping on a roof, and then an overstated crash. "Cleaver, are you sick? Here, lie still a minute and let me get your feet free. Mike -- Mike, can't you turn the gas up in this jug? Something's wrong back here." After a moment, yellow light began to pour from the glistening walls. Cleaver dragged an arm across his eyes, but it did him no good; it tired too quickly. Agronski's mild face, plump and anxious, floated directly above him like a captive balloon. He could not see Michelis anywhere, and at the moment he was just as glad. Agronski's presence wa.s hard enough to understand. "How... the hell..." he said. At the words, his lips split painfully at both corners. He realized for the first time that they had become gummed together, somehow, while he was asleep. He had no idea how long he had been out of the picture. Agronski seemed to understand the alwrted question. "We came in from the Lakes in the 'copter," he said. "We didn't like the silence down here and we figured that we'd better come in under our own power, instead of registering in on the regular jetliner and tipping the Lithians off -- just in case there'd been any dirty work afloat." "Stop jawing him," Michelis said, appearing suddenly, magically in the doorway. "He's got a bug, that's obvious. I don't like to feel pleased about misery, but I'm glad it's that instead of the Lithians." The rangy, long-jawed chemist helped Agronski lift Cleaver to his feet. Tentatively, despite the pain, Cleaver got his mouth open again. Nothing came out but a hoarse croak. "Shut up," Michelis said, not xmkindly. "Let's get him back into the hammock. Where's the Father? He's the only one capable of dealing with sickness here." "I'll bet hr's dead." Agronski burst out suddenly, his face glistening with alarm. "He'd be licrc if he could. It must be catching, Mike." "I didn't bring iny mitt." Michclis said drily. "Cleaver, He still or ril have to clobber you. Agronski. you seem to have dumped his water carafe ; better go get him some mire, lie needs it. And sec if the Father left anything in the lab that looks like medicine." Agronski went out, and, maddeningly, so did Michelis -- at least out of Cleaver's field of vision. Setting his every muscle against the pain, ' Cleaver pulled lus lips apart once more. "Mike." Instantly, Michelis was there. He had a pad of cotton bt'tween two fingers, wet with some solution, 'with which he gently cleaned Cleaver's lips and chin. "F.,asy. Agronski's getting you a drink. We'll let vou talk in a little while. Paul. Don't rush it." Cleaver relaxed a little. He could trust Michelis. Nevertheless, tlie vivid and absurd insult of having to be swabbed like a baby was more than he could bear; he felt tears of helpless rage swelling on either side of his nose. With two deft, noncommittal swipes, Michelis removed them. Agronski came back, holding out one hand tentatively, palm up. "I found these," he .said. "There's more in the lab, and the Father's pillpress is still out. So's his mortar and pestle, though they've been cleaned," "All right, let's have 'em," Michelis said. "Anything else?" "No. There's a syringe cooking in the sterilizer, if that means anythlng." Michelis swore briefly and to the point. "It means that there's a pertinent antitoxin in the shop someplace," he added. "But unless Ramon left notes, we'll not have a prayer of figuring out which one it is." As he spoke, he lifted Cleaver's head and tipped the pills into his mouth. The water which followed was cold at the first contact, but a split .second later it was liquid fire. Cleaver choked, and at that precise moment Michelis pinched his nastrils shut. The pills went down. "There's no sign of the Father?" Michelis said. "Not a one, Mike. Everything's in good order, and liis gear's still here. Both jungle suits are in the locker." "Maybe he went visiting," Michelis said thoughtfully. "He mu-st have gotten to know quite a few of the Lithians by now." "With a sick man on his hands? That's not like him, Mike. Not unlcss there was some kind of emergency. Or maybe he went on a routine errand, expected to be back in just a few moments, and -- " "And was set upon by trolls for forgetting to stamp his foot three times before crossing the bridge," "All right, laugh." 'Tm not laughing, believe me." "Mike... Michelis took a step back and looked down at Cleaver, his face floating as if detached through a haze of tears. He said: "All right, Paul. Tell us what it is. We're listening." But it was too late. The doubled barbiturate dose had gotten to Cleaver first. He could only shake his bead, and with the motion Michelis seemed to go reeling away into a whirlpool of fuzzy rainbows. go to sleep. He had had nearly a normal night's sleep, and he had started out the enormously long day a powerful and healthy man. The conversation of the two Earllimen and an obsessive consciousness of his need to speak to them before Ruiz-Sanchez returned helped to keep him, if not totally awake, at least not far below a state of light trance -- and the presence in his system of # grains of acetybalicylic acid had seriously raised his oxygen consumption, bringing with it not only dizziness but a precarioui, emotionally untethered alertness. That the fuel which was being burned to maintain it was largely the protein substrate of his own ceils he did not know, and it could not have alarmed him had he known it. Tlie voices continued to reach him, and to convey a little meaning. With them were mixed fleeting, fragmentary dreams, so slightly removed from the surface of his waking life as to seem peculiarly real, yet at the same time peculiarly pointless and depressing. In the semi-conscious intervals there came plans, a whole succession of them, all umple and grandiose at once, for taking command of the expedition, for communicating with the authorities on Earth, for bringing forward secret papers proving that Lithia was uninhabitable, for digging a tunnel under Mexico to Peru, for detonating Lithia in one single mighty fusion of all its light-weight atoms into an atom of cleaverium, the element whose cardinal number was a)ephnull... Agronski: Mike, come here and look at this; you read Lithian. There's a mark on the front door, on the message tablet. (Footsteps.) MictiELis: It says "Sickness inside." The strokes aren't casual or deft enough to be the work of tlie natives. Ideographs are hard to write rapidly. Ramon must have written it there. Agronski: I wish I knew where he went afterwards. (Footsteps. Door shutting, not loudly. Footsteps. Hassock creaking.) thinking about getting up a report. Unless this damn #-hour day has me thrown completely oil, our time's just about up. Are you still set on opening up the planet? Michelis: Yes. I've seen nothing to convince me that there's anytliing on Lithia that's dangerous to us. Except maybe Cleaver in there, and I'm not prepared to say that the Father would have left him if he were in any serious danger. And I don't see how Earthmen could harm this society: it's too stable emotionally, economically, in every other way. Danger, danger, said somebody in Cleaver's dream. It will explode. It's all a popish plot. Then he was marginally awake again and conscious of how his mouth hurt. ) Agronski: Why do you suppose these two jokers never called us after we went north? Michelis: I don't have any answer. I won't even ess until I talk to Ramon. Or until Paul's able to sit up and take notice. Agronski: I don't like it, Mike. It smells bad to me. This town's riht at the heart of the communications system of the planet. And yet -- no messages, Cleaver sick, the Father not here... There's a hell of a lot we don't know about Lithia. Michelis: There's a hell of a lot we don't know about central Brazil. Agronski: Nothing essential, iClike. What we know about the periphery gives us all the clues we need about the interior -- even to those fi.sh that eat people, the what are they, the pirhanas. That's not true on Lithia. We don't know vhether our peripheral clues about Lithia are germane or just incidental. Something enonnous could be hidden under the surface without our being able to detect it. Michelis: Agronski. stop sounding like a Sunday supplement. You underestimate your own intelligence. What kind of enormous secret could that be? That the Lithians eat people? That they're cattle for unknown gods that live in the jungle? That tliey're actually mindwrenching, soul-twisting, heartstopping, bowel-moving intelligences in disguise? The moment you state any such proposition, you'll deflate it yourself. I wouldn't even need to take the trouble of examining it, or discussing how we might meet it if it were true. Agronski: All right, all right, ril reserve judgment for the time being, anyhow. If everything turns out to be all right here, with the Father and Cleaver I mean, I'll probably go along with you. I don't have any reason I could defend for voting against the planet, I admit. Michelis: Good for you. I'm sure Ramon is for opening it up. so that should make it un.iniinous. I can't see why Cleaver would object. (Cleaver was testifying before a packed court convened in the UN General Assembly chambers in New York, with one finger pointed dramatically, but less in triumph than in sorrow, at Ramon Ruiz-Sanchez, S. J. At the sound of hU name the dream collapsed and he realized that the room had grown a little lighter. Dawn -- or dripping, wool-grey travesty of it which prevailed on Lithia -- was on its way. He wondered what he had just said to the court. It had been conclusive. damning, good enough to be used when he awoke; but he could not remember a word of it. All that remained of it was a sensation, almost the taste of the words, but with nothing of their substance.) Agronski: It's getting light. I suppose we'd better knock off. Michelis: Did you stake down the 'copter? The winds here are higher than they are up north, I seem to remember. Agronski: Yes. And covered it with the tarp. Nothing left to do but sling our hammocks -- Michelis: Shh. What's that? (Footsteps. Faint ones, but Cleaver knew them. He forced his eyes to open a little, but there was nothing to see but the ceiling. Its even color, and its smooth, everchanging slope into a dome of nothingness, drew him almost immediately upward into the mists of trance once more.) Agronski: Somebody's coming. It's the Father, Mike -- look out here. He seems to be all right. Dragging his feet a bit, but who wouldn't after being out helling all night? MiGitEi-is: Maybe you'd bc'tter meet him at the door. It'd probably be better than our springing out at him after he gets inside. After all he doesn't expect us. I'll get to unpacking tlie hammocks. Acronski: Sure. Mike. (Footsteps, going away from Qeaver. A grating sound of stone on stone: the door-wheel being turned.) Aoronski: Welcome home. Father! We got in just a little while ago and -- what's wrong? Arc you ill? Is there soineihing iliat -- Mike! Mike! (Somebody was running. Cleaver willed his neck muscles to lift his head, but they refused to obey. Instead, the back of his head seemed to force itself deeper into the stiff pillow of the hammock. After a momentary and endless agony he cried out.) Cleaver; Mike! Aoronski: Mike! (With a gasp, Cleaver lost the long battle at last. He was asleep.) IV house closed behind him, RuizSanchez lcx)ked about the gentlyglowing foyer with a feeling of almost unbearable anticipation, although he could hardly have said what it was that he hoped to see. Actuallv. it looked exactly like his own quarters, which was all he could in justice have expected -- all the furniture at "home" was Lithian except the lab equipment. "Wc have cut up several of the metal meteors from our museums, and hammered them as you suggested," Chrexa said behind him, while he struggled out of his raincoat and l)oots. "They show very definite, very strong inagentism, just as you predicted. We now have the whole planet alerted to pick up raeteorite.s and send them to our eiecirical laboratory here, regardless (rf where found. The staff of the observatory is attem)ting to predict possible lalls. Unhappily, meteors are rare here. Our astronomers say that we have never had a 'shower' such as you dcscrilx as frequent on your native planet." "No; I should have thought of that," Ruiz-Sanchez said, following the Lithian inu the front roora. This, too, was cjuite ordinary, and empty except for the two of them. "In our system we have a sort of giant grinding wheel -- a whole ring of little planets, many thomand.s of dicin, distributed around an orbit where we had expected to find only Nie normal-sized world. Collisions between these liodies are incessant, and our plague of meteors is the result. Here I suppose you have only the usual few strays from comets." "It is hard to understand how so unstable an arrangement could have come about," Chtexa said, sitting down and pointing out another hassock to his guest. "Have you an explanation?" "Not a good one," Ruiz-Sanchez said. "Some of us think that there was a respectable planet in that orbit ages ago, which exploded somehow. A similar accident happened to a satellite in our system -- at least one of our j)lanets has a similar ring. Others think that at the formation of our solar system the raw materials of what might have been a planet just never succeeded in coalescing. Both ideas have many flaws, but each satisfies certain objections to the other, so perhaps there is some truth in botli." Chtexa's eyes filmed with the nildly disquieting "inner blink" characteristic of Lithians at their most thoughtful. "There would seem to be no wav to test either an swer," he said at length. "By our logic, lack of such tests makes the paginal question meaningless." "That rule of logic has many adherents on Earth. My colleague Dr. Cleaver would certainly agree with it." Ruiz-Sanchez smiled suddenly. He had labored long and hard to master the Lithian language, and to have understood and recognized so completely abstract a point as the one just made by Chtexa was a bigger victory than any quantitative gains in vocabulary alone could ever have been. "But I can see that we are going to have difficulties in collecting these meteorites. Have you offered incentives? "Oh, certainly. Everyone understands the importance of the program. We are all eager to advance it." This was not quite what the priest had meant by his question. He searched his memory for some Lithian equivalent of "reward," but found nothing but the word he had already used, "incentive." He realized that he knew' no word for "greed," either. Evidently offering Lithians a hundred dollars a meteorite would simply bafilc them. Instead he said, "Since the potential meteor-fall is so small, you're not likely to get anything like the supply of metal lliat you need for a real study, no matter how thoroughly you cooperate on it. You need a supplementary iron-finding program : some way of concentrating the traces of the metal you have on the planet. Our smelting methods would be useless to you, since you have no ore-beds. Hmm. What about the iron-fixing bacteria?" "Are there such?" Chtexa said, cocking his head dubiously. "I don't know. Ask your bacteriologists. If you have any bacteria here that belong to the genus we call Leptothrix, one of them should be an iron-fixing species. In all the has had life on it, that mutation must have occurred, and probably very early." "But why have we never seen it before? We have done perhaps more research in bacteriology than we have in any other field." "Because," Ruiz-Sanchez said earnestly, "you didn't know what to look for, and because such a species would be as rare as iron itself. On Earth, because we have iron in abundance, our Leptothrix ochracea has found plenty of opportunity to grow. We find their fossil our great ore-beds. It used to bc' thought, as a matter of fact, that the bacteria produced the oi-e-beds, but Tve never believed that. While they do obtain dielr energy by oxidizing ferrous iron, such salts in solution change spontaneously to ferric salts if the oxidation-reduction potential and the pH of the water arc right -- and those arc conditions that are alTccted bv ordinary decay bacteria. On our planet the bacteria grew in the ore-beds because the iron was there, not the other way around. In your case, you just don't have the iron to make them numerous, but I'm .'ure there mast be a few." "We will start a soil-sampling program at once," Chtexa said, his wattles flaring a sulxlued orchid. "Our ajitibiotics research centers screen soil samples by the thousand.s every month, in search of new inicroflora of therapeutic importance. If these iron-fixing bacteria exist, we are certain to find them eventually." "TTiey mu.st exist," Ruiz-Sanchez repeated. "Do you have a bacteritim that i.s a sulfur-concentrating obligate anaerobe?" "S'es -- ye.s, certainly!" "There you are," the Jesuit said, leaning back contentedly and clasping hi.s hands across one knee. "You have plenty of sulfur and so you have the bacterium. Please let me know when you find tiie iron-fixing species. I'd like to make a suIkuItureand take it home with me when I leave. There are two Earthmen whose noses I'd like to rub in it." The Lithian stiffened and thnist his head forward a little, as if baffled. Ruiz-Sanchez said hastily, "Pardon me. I was translating literally an aggressive idiom of my own tongue. It was not meant to describe an actual plan of action." "I think I understand," Chtexa said. Ruiz-Sanchez wondered if he did. In the rich storehouse of the Lithian language he h.id yet to discover any metaphors, either living or dead. Neither did the Litlnans liave any poetry or other creative arts. "You are of course wclccnne to any of the results of this program which you would honor as by accepting. One problem in die social sciences which has long puzzled us is just how one may adequately honor the innovator. When we consider how new ideas change our lives, we despair of giving in kind, and it is helpful when the innovator himself has wishes which society can gratify." Ruiz-Sanchez was at first not quite sure he had understood the proposition. After he had gone over it once more in his mind, he was not .sure that he could bring himself to like it, although it wa.s admirable enough. From an Earthman it would have sounded intolerably pompous, but it wa.s evident that Chtexa meant it. It wa-s probably just as well that the Commission's rejiort on Lithia was about to fall tlue, Ruiz-Sanchez had begun to think that he could absorb only a little mbm of this kind of calm sanity. And all of it -- a disquieting thought from somewhere near hi? heart reminded him -- all of it derived from reason, none from precept, none from faith. Tlic Lithians did not know God. They did things rightly, and thought righteously, because it was reasonable and effiaent and natural to do and to think that way. They seemed to need nothing else. Or could it be that thethought and acted as they did because, not being bom of man, and never in effect having left the Garden in wliich they lived, they did not share the terrible burden of origi nal sin? The fact tliat Lithia had never once had a glacial epoch, that its climate had been left una geological fact that an alert theologist could scarcely afford to ignore. Could it be that, free from the burden, they were also free from the curse of Adam? And if they wtir -- could men Twar to live among them? you, Cljlexa," the priest said after a moment. "You owe me no debt whatsoever, but we four Earthmen have a hard decision to make shortly. You know what it is. And I don't believe that wc know enough yet about your planet to make that decision properly." "Then of course you must ask questions," Chtexa said immediately. "I will answer, wherever I can." "Well then -- do your people die? I see you have the word, but perhaps it isn't the same as our word in meaning." "It means to stop changing and to go back to existing," Chtexa said. "A machine exists, but only a living thing, like a tree, progres-ses along a line of changing equilibriums. When that progress stops, the entity is dead." "And that happens to you?" "It always happens. Even the great trees, like the Message Tree, die sooner or later. Is that not true on Earth?" "Yes," Ruiz-Sanchez said, "yes, it is. For rcMsons it would take me a long time to explain, it occurred to me that you might have escaped this evil." "It is not evil as we look at it," Chtexa said. "Lithia lives because of death. The death of leaves supplies our oil and gas. The death of some creatures is always necessary for the life of others. Bacteria must die, and viruses be prevented from living, if illness Is to be cured. Wc ourselves must die simply to make room for others, at least until wc can slow the rate at which our people arrive in the world -- a thing impossible to us at present." "But desirable, in your eyes?" "Surely desirable," Chtexa said. "Our world is rich, but not inexhaustible. And other planets, you have taught us, have peoples of their own. Tims woi cannot hope to spread to other planets when we have over-populated this one." "No real thing is ever inexhaustihle," Ruiz-Sanchez said abruptly, frowning at the iridescent floor. "That we have found to be true over many thousands of years of our history." "But inexhaustible in what way?" said Chtexa. "I grant you that any small object, any stone, any drop of water, any bit of soil can be explored without end. The amount of information which can be gotten from it is quite literally infinite. But a given soil can be exhausted of nitrates. It is difficult, but with bad cultivation it can be done. Or take iron, about which we have already been talking. Our planet's supply of iron has limits which we already know, at least approximately. To allow our economy to develop a demand for iron whieli exceeds the total known supply of Lithia -- and exceeds it beyond any possibility of supplementation by meteors or by import -- would be folly. This is not a question of information. It is a question of whether or not the information can be used. If it cannot, then limitless information is of no help." "You could certainly get along without more iron if yx)u h.ad to," Ruiz-Sanchez admitted. "Your wooden machinery is precise enough to satisfy any engineer. Most of them, I think, don't remember that we used to have something similar: I've a sample in my own home. It's a kind of tinier called a cuckoo clock, nearly two of our centuries old, made entirely of wood, and still nearly # accurate. For that matter, long after we began to build sca-going vessels of metal, we continued to use lignum vitae for ships' bearings." "Wood is an excellent material for most uses," Chtexa agreed. "Its only deficiency, compared to ceramic materials or perhaps metal, is that it is variable. One must know it well to be able to assess its qualities from one tree to the next. And of course complicated parts can always be grown inside suitable ceramic molds; the growth ressure inside the mold rises so igh that the resulting part is very dense. Larger parts can be ground direct from the plank with soft sandstone and polished with slate. It is a gratifying material to work, we find." Ruiz-Sanchez felt, for some reason, a little ashamed. It was a magnified version of the same shame he had always felt at home toward that old Black Forest cuckoo clock. The electric clocks elsewhere in his villa back home all should have been capable of performing silently, accurately and in less space -- but the considerations wliich had gone into the m akin g of them had been commercial as well as purely technical. As a result, most of them operated with a thin, asthmatic whir, or groaned softly but dismally at irregular hours. All of them were "streamlined," oversized and ugly. None of them kept good time, and several of them, since they were powered by constant-speed motors operating very simple gear-boxes, could not be adjusted, but had been sent out from the factory wnth built-in, ineluctable inaccuracies. The wooden cuckoo clock, meanwhile, ticked evenly away. A quail emerged from one of two wooden doors every quarter of an hour and let you know about it, and on the hour first the quail came out, then the cuckoo, and tliere wa.s a soft boll that rang just ahead of the cuckoo's call. It was accurate to a minute a week, all for the price of running up the three weights which drove it, each night before bedtime. The maker had been dead before Ruiz-Sanchez had been born. In contrast, the priest would probably buy and jettison at least a dozen cheap electric clocks in the course of one lifetime, as their makers had intended he should. "I have one more question, if I may. It is really part of the same question: I have asked if you die; now I should like to ask how you are born. I see many adults on your streets and sometiiTie.s in your houses -- though I gather you yourself are alone -- but never any children. Can you explain this to me? Or if the subject is not allowed to be discussed... "But why should it not be? There can never be any closed subjects," Chtexa said. "You know, of course, that our mates have abdominal po'uches where the eggs arc carried, it was a lucky mutation for us, for there arc a number of nest-robbing species on this planet." "Yes, we have a few animals with a somewhat similar arrangement on Earth, although they are live-bearers." "Our eggs are laid into these pouches once a year," Chtexa said. "It is then that the women leave their own houses and seek out the male of their choice to fertilize the eggs. I am alone because, thus far, I am no woman's first choice tliis season. In contrast you may see men's houses at this time of year which shelter three or four women who favor him." "I see," Ruiz-Sanchez said carefully. "And how is the choice determined? Is it by emotion, or by reason alone?" "The two are in the long run the same," Chtexa said. "Our ancestors did not leave our genetic needs to chance. Emotion with us no longer runs counter to our eugenic knowledge. It cannot, since it was itself modified to follow that knowledge by selective breeding for such behaviour. "At the end of the season, then, comes Migration Day. At that time all the eggs are fertilized, and ready to hatch. On that day -- you will not be here to see it, I am afraid, for your announced date of departure precedes it by a short time -- our whole nation goes to the seashores. There, witli the men to protect them from predators, the women wade out to swimming depth, and the children are bom." "In the sea?" Ruiz-Sanchez said faintly. "Yes, in the sea. Then we all return, and resume our other affairs until the next mating season." "But -- but what happens to the children?" "Why, tlicy take care of themselves, if they can. Of course many perish, particularly to our voracious brother the great fish-lizard, whom for that reason we kill when wc can. But a majority return when the time comes." "Return? Chtexa, I don't understand. Why don't they drown when they arc bom? And if they return, why have we never seen one?" "But you have," Chtexa said. "And you have heard them often. Here, come with me." He arose and led the way out into the foyer. RuizSanchez followed, hi.s head whirling with conjecture. Chtexa opened the door. The night, the priest saw with a subdued shock, was on the wane; there was the faintest of pearly glimmers on the cloudy sky to the east. The . multifarious humming and singing of the jungle contihued unabated. There was a high, hissing whistle, and the shadow of a pterodon drifted over the city toward the sea. From the mudflats came a hoarse barking. "There," Chtexa said softly. "Did you hear it?" The stranded creature, or another of his kind -- it was impossible to tell which -- croaked protestingly again. "It is hard for them at first," Chtexa said. "But actually the worst of their dangers are over. They have come ashore." "Chtexa," Ruiz-Sanchez said. "Your children -- the hngfish?' "Yes," Chtexa said. "Those are our children." V incessant barking of the lungfish which caused Ruiz-Sanchez to faint when Agronski opened the door for him. The late hour, and the dual strains of Cleaver's Illness and the subsequent discovery of Cleaver's  direct lying, contributed. So did the increasing sense of guilt toward Cleaver which the priest had felt while walking home under the gradually-brightening, weeping sky : and so, of course, did the shock of discovering that Agronski and Michelis had arrived sometime during the night while he had been neglecting his charge. But primarily it was the diminishing, gasping clamor of the children of Lithia, battering at his every mental citadel, all the way from Chtexa's house to his own. The sudden fugue only lasted a few moments. He fought his way back to consciousness to find that Agronski and Michelis had propped him up on a stool in the lab and were tiying to remove his macintosh without unbalancing him or awakening him -- as difficult a problem in topology as removing a man's vest without taking off his jacket. Wearily, the priest pulled his own arm out of a macintosh sleeve and looked up at Michelis. "Good morning, Mike. Please excuse my bad manners." "Don't be an idiot," Michelis said evenly. "You don't have to talk now, anyhow. I've already spent much of tonight trying to keep Cleaver quiet until he's better. Don't put me through it again, Ramon, plea.se." "I won't. I'm not ill; I'm just very tired and a little overwrotight." "What's the matter with Cleaver?" Agronski demanded. Michelis made as if to shoo him off. "No, no, Mike, I'm all right, I assure you. ,s for Paul, he got a dose of glucoside poisoning when a plant-spine stabbed him this afternoon. No, it's yesterday afternoon now. How has he been since, you arrived?" "He's sick," Michelis said. "Since you weren't here, we didn't know what to do. We settled for two of the pills you'd left out." "You did?" Ruiz-Sanchez slid his feet heavily to the floor and tried to stand up. "As you say, you couldn't have known what else to do, but I think I'd better look in on him -- " "Sit down, please, Ramon." Michelis spoke gently, but his tone showed that he meant the request to be honored. Obscurely glad to be forced to yield to the big man's well-meant implacability, the priest let himself be propped back on the stool. His boots fell off his feet to the floor. "Mike, who's the Father here?" he said tiredly. "Still, I'm sure you've done a good job. lie's in no apparent danger?" "Well, he seems very sick. But he had energy enough to keep himself half awake most of the night. He only passed out a short while ago." "Good. Let him stay out. Tomorrow we'll probably have to begin intravenus feeding, though. In this atmosphere one doesn't give a salicylate overdose without penalties." He sighed. "Can we put off further questions?" "If there's nothing else wrong here, of course we can." "Oh," Ruiz-Sanchez said, "there's a great deal wrong, I'm afraid." "I knew it," .Agronski said. "I knew damn well there was. I told you so, Mike, didn't I?" "Is it urgent?" "No, Mike -- there's no danger to us, of at I'm positive. It's nothing that won't keep until we've all had a rest. You two look as though you need one as badly as I." "We're tired," Michelis agreed. "But why didn't you ever call us?" Agronski burst in aggricvcdly. "You had us scared half to death. Father. If there's really something wrong here, you should have -- " "There's no immediate danger," Ruiz-Sanchez repeated patiently. "As for why we didn't call you, I don't understand that any more than you do. Up to tonight, I thought we were in regular contact with you both. That was Paul's job and he seemed to be carrying it out. I didn't discover that he wasn't doing it until after he became ill." "Then obviously we'll have to wait," Michelis said. "Let's hit the hammock, in God's name. Flying that 'copter through twenty-five hundred miles of fog-bank wasn't exactly restful, either; I'll be glad to turn in... But, Ramon -- " "Yes, Mike?" "I have to say that I don't like this any better than Agronski does. Tomorrow we've got to clear it up. and get our Ccm:imission basincss done. We've only a day or so to make our decision before the ship comes and takes us off for good, and by that time we must know everything there is to know, and just what we're going to tell the Earth about it." "Yes," Ruiz-Sanchez said. "Just as you say, Mike -- in God's name." gist awoke before the otlicrs : actually, he had undergone far less purely physical strain than had the other three. It was just beginning to be cloudy dusk when he rolled out of his hammock and padded over to look at Cleaver. The physicist was in coma. His face was dirty grey and looked oddly shrunken. It was high time that the neglect and inadvertent abmc to which he had been subjected was rectified. Happily, his pulse and respiration were close to normal now. Ruiz-Sanchez went quietly into the lab and made up a fructose IV feeding. At tlie same time he reconstituted a can of powdered egg into a sort of souffle, setting it in a covered crucible to bake at the back of die little oven; that was for the rest of them. In the sleeping chamber, the priest set up his IV stand. Cleaver did not stir when the needle entered the big vein just above tlie inside of his elbow. Ruiz-Sanchez taped the tubing in place, checked the drip from the inverted bottle, and went back into the lab. There he sat, on the stool before the microscope, in a sort of suspension of feeling while the new night drew on. He was still poisonedtired, but at least now he could stay awake without constantly fighting himself. The slowdy-rising souffle in the oven went plup-plup, plup-plup, and after a while a thin tendril of aroma suggested that it was beginning to brown on top, or at Ica.st thinking about it. Outside, it abruptly rained buckets. Just as abruptly, it stopjjcd. "Is that breakfa.st I smell, Ramon?" "Yes, Mike, in the oven. In a few minutes now." "Right." Michelis went away again. On the back of the workbench, RuizSancJiez saw the dark blue book with the gold stamping which he had brought with him all the way from Earth. Almost automatically he pulled it to him and opened it to page #. It would at least ve him something to think about with which he was not personally involved. He had quitted the text last with Anita, who "would yield to tlie lewdness of Honuphrius to appease the savagery of Sulla and the mercenariness of the twelve Sullivani, and (as Gilbert first suggested), to save the virginity of Felicia for Magravius" -- now hold a moment, how could Felicia be considered still a virgin at this point? Ah:... when converted bv Michael ered it. since Felicia had been guilty only of simple infidelities in the finst place. "... but .she fears that, by allowing his marital rights, she may cause reprehensible conduct between Rugenius and Jereinias. Michael, who has foinurly debauched .Anita, dispenses her from yielding to Honupitrius" -- yes. that figured, since Michael also had had designs on Eugenius. "Anita is disturbed, hut Michael comminates that he will reserve her case tomorrow for the ordinary Gugliclinus even if .slie should practise a pious fraud during afTriction which, from experience, she knows (according to Wadding) to he leading to nullity." Well. This was all very well. It even seemed to be shaping up, for the first time. Still, Ruiz-Sandiez reflected, he would not like to have known the familv hidden beJtind the conventional Latin alia.ses, or to have lxen the confessor to any' one of them. Now then: "Fortissa, liowever, is encouraged by Gregorius, Leo. Viteilius, and Macdugalius, reunitedly, to warn Anita by describing the strong chastisements of Honuphrius and the depravities ( turpissimas) of Canicula, the deceased wife of Mauritius, with Sulla, the simoniac, who is abnegand and repents.' Yes, it added up, when one tried to view it without outrage either at the persons involved -- and there was every assurance that these were fictitious -- or at the author, who for all his mighty intellect, the greatest perhaps of the preceding century among novelists, had still to be pitied as much as the meanest victim of the Evil One. To view it, as it were, in a sort of grey twilight of emotion, wherein everything, even the bamacle-like commentaries which the text had accumulated, could be seen in the same light. "Is it done. Father?" "Smells like it, Agromki. Take it out and help yourself, why don't you?" "Thanks. Can I bring Cleaver -- " "No, he's fitting an IV." Unless his impression that he understood the problem at last was once more going to turn out to be an illusion, he was now ready for the basic question, the stumper that had deeply disturbed both the Order and the Church for so many years now. He reread it carefully. It asked: "Has he hegemony and shall she submit?" To his astonishment, he saw as if for the first time that it was two questions, despite the omission of a comma between the two. And so it demanded two an.swers. Did Honuphrius have hegemony? Yes, he did, for Michael, the onlv member of the # # whole complex who had been gifted from the beginning with the power of grace, had been egregiously compromised. Therefore, Honuphrius regardless of whether his dns were all to be laid at his door or were real only in rumor could not be divested of his privileges by anyone. But should Anita submit? No, she should not Michael had forfeited his right to dispense or to reserve her in any way, and so she could not be guided by the curate or by anyone else in tlic long run but her own conscience -- which in view of the grave accusations against Honuphrius could lead her to no recourse but to deny him. As for Sulla's repentance, and Felicia's conversion, they meant nothing, since the defection of Michael had deprived both of them, and everyone else, of spiritual guidance. The answer, then, had been obvious all the time. It was: Yes, and No. H e closed the book and looked up across the bench, feeling neither more nor less dazed than he had before, but with a small stirring of elation deep inside him which he could not suppress. As he looked out of the window into the dripping darkness, a familiar, sculpturesque head and shoulders moved into the truncated tetrahedron of yellow light being cast out through the fine glass into the rain. It was Chtexa, moving away from the house. Suddenly Ruiz-Sanchez realized that nobody had bothered to rub away the ackness ideograms on the door-tablet. If Chtexa had come here on some errand, he had been turned back unnecessarily. The priest leaned forward, snatched up an empty s!idebox, and rapped with a comer of it against the inside of the window, Chtexa turned and looked in through the steaming curtains of rain, his eyes completely filmed. Ruiz-Sanchez beckoned to him. and got stifTly off the stool to open the door. In the oven his share of breakfast dried slowly and began to bum. The rapping had summoned forth Agronski and Michelis as well. Chtexa looked down at the three of them with easy gravity', while drops of water ran like oil down the minute, prismatic scales of his supple skin. "I did not know that there was sickness here," the Lithian said. "I called because your brother RuizSanchez left my house this morning without the gift I had hoped to give him. I will leave if I am invading your privacy in any way." "You are not," Ruiz-Sanchez assured him. "And the sickness is only a poisoning, not communicable and w'e think not likely to end badly for our colleague. These are my friends from the north, Agronski and Michelis." "I am happy to see them. The message was not in vain, then?" "What message is this?" Michelis said, in his pure but hesitant Lithian. "I .sent a message, as your colleague Ruiz-Sanchez asked me to do, last night. I was told by Xoredeshch Gton that you had already departed." "As we had," Michelis said. "Ramon, what's this? I thought you told us that sending messages was Paul's job. And you certainly implied that you didn't know how to do it after Paul took sick." "I didn't. I don't. I asked Chtexa to send it for me." Michelis looked up at the Lithian. "What did the message say?" he asked. "That you were to join them now, here, in Xoredeshch Sfath. And that vour time on our world was almost up." "What does that mean?" Agronski said. He had been trying to follow the conversation, but he was not much of a linguist, and evidently the few words he had been able to pick up had served only to inflame his ready fears. "Mike, translate, please." Michelis did so. bricRy. Then he said : "Ramon, wa.s that really all you had to say to us, especially after whai you had found out? We knew Uiat departure time was coming, too, after all. We can keep a calendar as well as you, I hope." "I know that, Mike. But I had no idea what previous messages you'd received, if indeed you'd received any. For all I knew. Cleaver might have been in touch with you some other vvay, privately. I tliought at first of a transmitter in his personal lugggc. but later it occurred to me that he might have been sending dispatihes over the regular jetliners. Or he miglit have told you that we were going to stay on beyond the official time. He might have told you I was dead. He might have told you anything. I had to be sure you'd arrive here regardless of w-hat he had or had not said. "And when I got to the local rtK'ssapi' center, I luicl to revise my message again, because I found that I couldn't coiiiniimicate with you directly, or send anytfiing at all detailed. Eveiylhing that goes out from Xoredeluh Sfaiii bv radio # goes out through the I iee. and until you've seen it vou haven't any idea what an Karthiiian is up against there in sending even the simplest message." "Is that true?" Miehelis asked Chtexa. "True?" Chtexa repeated. "It is accurate, yes." "Well, then," Ruiz-Sanchez said, a little nettled, "you can see why, w'hcn Chtexa appeared providentially. recognized me. and ofTcred to act as an intiTinediarv. I htid to give him only tlic gist of what I hid to say. I couldirt ho)e to explain all the clei.iils to him. am! I couldn't li('pe that any of those details would get to you undisioited aifter passing thiougli at least two do was yell al the loj) of niv voice for you two to get down here on the pioper date .incl hope that you heard ine." "Thi' is a time of lioublc. uhidt is lik" a siiknevs in the hni--e." Chtexa said. "I nui't not remain. am troubled, and I lamiol ask lltat, if I now force my jresence on other. wiio are troubled. I will bring my gift at a better lime." door, without any formal gesture of fari'well, but neverthclc? leaving beiiind an overwhelming impression of grariousness. Ruiz.Sanchez w.ilclied liim go helplessly, and a little forlornly. The Lithian.s always seemed to understand the cbseiiLes of situations ; lliey were never, like een the most cocksure of Eariiimen. beset by the least apparent doubt. And why sliould they be? They were backed-if Ruiz.-Sanchez was right -- bv the second-best Authority in the universe, and backed directly, without intermediaries or con(licting interpretations. The very fact that they were never tonnenlcd by indet'ision identified them as creatures of that Autliority. Only tlic ( hildren of God had been gi'en free choice, and hence were often doubtful. Nevertheless, Ruiz-Sanchez would have delaved Chtexa's dcpartuic had he been able. In a short-term argument it is heljiful to have pure reason on your side -- even though such an ally could be di'pended upon to Stab you to the heart If you depended upon him too long. "Let's go inside and lhra.sh this thing out," Michclis said, shutting the door and turning back toward the front room. "It's a good thing we got some sleep, but we have so little time left now that it's going lo be touch and go to have a formal decision ready when the sliip comes." "We can't go ahead yel," Agronski objected, although, along with Ruiz-Sam lie. be followed Michclis obediently enough. "How can we do anything .wnsible without having heard what Cleaver has to say? Every inan'.s voice counts on a job of this sort." "That's verv true." Michelis said. "And I don't like the present situation any better than you do -- I've already said that. But I don't see tliat wc have any choice. VN'hat do you think, Ramon?" "I'd like to hold out for waiting," Ruiz-Sanchez said frankly. "Anything I may say now is, to put it realistically, somewhat compromised with vou two...nd don't tell me that you have every confidence in my integrity, becau.se we had every confidence in Cleavcr'.s, too. Right now, trying to maintain both confidences just cancels out both." "You have a nastv wav, Ramon, of saying aloud what everybody else is thinking," Michelis said, grinning bleakly. "What alternatives do you sec, then?" "None," Ruiz-Sanchez admitted. "Time is against us, a. you said. We'll ju.st have to go ahead without Cleaver." "No, you won't." Tlic voice, from the doorway to the sleeping chamber, was at once both uncertain and much harshened by weakness. The others sprang up. Cleaver, clad only in his shorts, stood in the doorway, clinging to both sides of it. On one forearm Ruiz-Sanchez could see the marks where the ad. hesive tape which iiad held the IV tubing had been ripped otf. VI chelis said, almost angrily. "Get back into your hammock before you make things twice as bad for yourself. You're a sick man, can't you realize that?" "Not as sick as I look," Cleaver said, with a ghastly grin. "Actually I feel pretty fair. My mouth is almost all cleared up and I don't think I've got any fever. And I'll be damned if this Commission is going to proceed an inch without me. It isn't empowered to do it, and I'll appeal any decision -- any decision, I hope you guys are listening -- that it makes without me." The other two turned helplessly to Ruiz-Sanchez. "How about it, Ramon?" Michclks .said, frowning. "Is it safe for him to be up like this?" Ruiz-Sanchez was already at the physicist's side, peering into his mouth. The ulcers were indeed almost gone, with granulation tissue forming nicely over the few that still remained. Cleaver's eves were f still slightly suffused, indicating that the toxemia was not completely defeated, but except for these two signs the effect of the accidental squill inoculation was no longer visible. It was true that Cleaver looked awful, but that was inevitable in a jnan recently quite sick, and in one who had been burning his own body proteins for fuel to boot. "If he wants to kill himself, I guess he's got a right to do so, at least bv indirection." Ruiz-Sanchez said. "Paul, the first tiling you'll have to do is get off your feet, and get into a robe, and get a blanket around your legs. Then you'll have to eat something: I'll fix it for you. You've staged a w'ondcrful recovery, but you're a sitting duck for a real infection if you abuse yourself during convalescence." "I'll compromise," Cleaver said immediately, "I don't want to be a hero, I juht want to be hoard. Give me a liand ocr to that hasso'k. I still don't walk very stiailil." It took the better part of half an hour to get Cleaver settled to RuizSanehez' .satisfaction. 'I'he physicist secnitd in a way way to be enjoying every minute of it. At last he had a mug of gchtciii, the local equivalent of tea, in his hand, and Michelis said: "Ml right, Paul, you've gone out of your way to put yourself on the spot. FiVidcntly tliat's where you want to he. So let's have the answer: Why didn't you communicate with usi"' "I didn't want to." "Now wait a minute," .gr # n # ki said. "Paul, don't break your neck to say the first damn tiling that conies into your head. Your judgment may not be well yet, even if your lalkiiiL" apparatus Is. Wasn't your sileriee ju.st a matter of your being unable to work the local message system -- the Tree or whatever it IS?" No, it wasn't." Cleav'r insisted. "Thanks, Agroiwki, hut I don't need to be sheplierded down the safe and easy road, or have any alibis set up for me. I know exactiv what I dill that was tickiidi, ;ud I know that it's going to Iw impossible to s't up consistent nlilLs for it now. My chances for keeping anything under my hat depended on rny staying in complete control of everything I did. Naturally those cliances went out the window when I got stuck bv that damned pineapple. I realized that last night, when I fought like a demon to get through to you before the Father could get back, and found that I couldn't make il." "You seem to take it calmly enough now," Miehelis observed. "Well, I'm feeling a little washed mt. But Fin a realist. And I also know, Mike, that I had damned giH'd leasons for what I did. I'm counting on llic chance that you'll agree with me wholeheartedly when I tell you why I did it." "All right," Miehelis said, "begin." hands quietly in the lap of his robe. He was obviously still enjoying the situation. He said: "First of all, I didn't call you because I didn't sant to, as I said, I could have mastored the problem of the Tree e;isily enough by doing what the F'atlier did -- that i.s, by getting a Sn.ike to ferry my messages. Of course T don't speak Snake, but tlie Father does, so all I had to do was to take him into mv conlide:H'C. B:trr;ng that. I could have mastered tlie Tree itself. I already know all the technical principles involved. Mike, you should sec that Tree, it's the biggest single junction transistor anyw'here in this galaxy, and I'll bet that it's the biggest one anywhere. "But I wanted a gap to spring up between our party and yours. I wanted both of vou to be comlelelv in the dark about what was going on. down here on this continent. I wanted you to imagine the worst, and blame it on the Snakes, too, if that could be managed. After you got here -- if you did -- I was going to be able to sliow you tliat I hadn't sent any messages because the Snakes wouldn't let me. I've got more plants to that effect squirrelled away around here than I'll bother to list now; tliere'd be no point in it, since it's all come to nothing. But I'm sure it would have looked conclusive, regardless of anything the Father would liave been able to offer to the contrary. "It was just a damned sliaine, from my point of view, tliat I had to run up against a pineapple at the last minute. It gave the Father a chance to find out something about what was up. I'll swear that if that hadn't happened, he wouldn't have smelt anything until you actually got here -- and then it would have been too late." "I probably wouldn't have, that's true," Ruiz-Sanchez said, watching Cleaver steadily. "But your running up against that 'pineapple' was no accident. If you'd been observing Lithia as you were sent here to do, instead of spending all your time building up a fictitious Lithia for purposes of your own, you'd have known enough about the planet to have been more careful about 'pineapples.' You'd also have spoken at least as much Lithian a.s Agronski by this time." "That," Cleaver said, "is probably true, and again it doesn't make any difference to me. I observed the one fact about Lithia that ovArides all oilier facts, and that is going to turn out to be sufficient. Unlike you, Fatlicr, I have no respect for petty niceties in extreme situations, and I'm not the kind of man who Uiinks anyone Icaras anything from analysis after the fart." "Let's not get to bickering," Michclis said. "You've told us your story without any visible decoration, and it's c'ident that you have a reason for confessing. You expect us to excuse you, or at least not to blame you too heavily, when you tell us what tliat reason is. Let's hear it." "It's this," Cleaver said, and for the first time he seemed to beome a little more anitnateci. He leaned forward, the "lowinc; e;aiicht brinsiing the bone?, of liis f.n e into sh.iip contrast with the s.ii'tinn hollows of his checks, and pointed a not-iiuiU"-steadv finper at Michelis. "Do you know, Mike, what it is that we're .sitting on here:' Do vou kiiojv, just to bepin with, how much rutile ihmis heie';'" "Of course I know. (I we decitle to vote for openinp the planet up. our titanium problem will be Solved for a centur', niashe even loiiper. Tm saying as inudi in my persoiuil report. But wfigured tliat that would be true even before we fir.'t landed bet', a. soon as wr got accurate figures on the mass oi' the planet." "And what about the pegmatite?" Cleaver demanded s)ftly. looking puled. "I Mippose it'.s abimclnnt: I reallv didn't bother to look. Titanium's important to us, hut T don't uitc see whv lithium should be; the (lavs wlvn the metal was used as n rocket tm-l are fifty years lit-hincl us." "And v('t (he stuT's slid worth alirmt .# an r.iigli'h tonne hack home. Mike, ami that's exactly the same price it was drawing in the IPfiO'i. allinving for cnirrencv cliangcs since then. Doesn't that nie.an anything to vou?" "I'm more interested in what it means to you," Mi(helis said. "None of us can make a nickel out of this trip, even if we find the planet solid platinum inside -- which is hardly likclv. And if price is the only consideration, surely the fact that lithium is common here will break the market for it? What's it gK)d for, after all, on a large scale.'" "It's good for bombs." Cleaver said. "Fusion bombs. And, of course, controlled fusiem low'cr, if vve ever lick that problem." sick and tired all over again. It was exactly what he had feared had been on Cleaver's n;ind. and he had not wanted to find himself right. "Cleaver," he said, "Fve changed my mind I would have caught vou out, even if you had never blundncd against your 'pineapple.' That same day you mentioned to me that you were looking for pegmatite wlicn vou had your accident, and that you thought Lithia miglit be a good place for tritium produi tion on a large scale. Evidently you lliought that I wouldn't know what vou were talkI ing about. If you hadn't hit the 'pineapple.' you would have given voursoif awav to me before now bv talk like that; your e.stiinale of me was ba.sed on as little observation as is vour etin I ate of Idthia." "It's easy," Cleaver observed indulgently, "to say 'I knew it all the time.' " "Of course it's easy, when the other man is helping you." RuizSanchez said. "But I think that your view of Eithia as a cornucopia of potential hydrogen bombs is only the beginning of what you have in mind. I don't believe that it's even your real olijcctive. What you would like most is to see Lithia removed from the universe as far as you're concerned. You hate the place, it's injured you, you'd like to think that it really doesn't exist. Hence the emphasis, on Lilhia as a source of tritium, to the exclusion of every other fact about the planet; for if that emphasis wins out, Lithia will be placed under security seal. Isn't tliat right?" "Of course it's right, except for the phony mind-reading," Cleaver said contemptuously. "When even a priest can see it, it's got to be obvious. Mike, this is the most tremendous opportunity that man's order to be converted, root and branch, into a thermonuclear laboratory and production center. It has indefinitely large supplies of the most important raw materials. What's even more important, it ha.s no nuclear knowledge of its own for us to worry about. All the clue materials, the radioactive elements and so on which you need to work out real knowledge of the atom, we'll have to imort; the Snakes don't know a thing about them. Furthermore, the instruments involved, the counters and particle-accelerators and so on, all depend on materials like iron that the Snakes don't have, and on principles they don't know, like magnetism to begin with, and quantum theory. We'll be able to stock our plant here with an immense reservoir of cheap labor which doesn't know and -- if we take proper precautions -- never will have a prayer of learning enough to snitch classified techniques. "All we need to do is to turn in a tripIe-E Unfavorable on the planet to shut off for a whole century any use of Lithia as a way station or any other kind of general base. At the same time, we can report separately to tlie UN Review Committee exactly what we do have in Lithia: a tripIe-A arsenal for the whole of Earth, for the whole commonwealth of planets we control!" "Against whom?" Ruiz-Sanchez said. "What do vou mean?" "Against whom are you stocking this arsenal ? Why do we need a whole planet devoted to making tritium bombs?" "The UN itself can use weapons," Cleaver said drily. "The time isn't very far gone since there were still a few restive nations on Earth, and it could come around again. Don't forget also that thermonuclear weapons only la.st a few years -- they can't be stockpiled indefinitely, like fission bombs. The halflife of tritium is very short. I suppose you w'ouldn't know anything about tlTat. But take my w'ord for it, the UN's police would be glad to know that they could have access to a virtually ine.xhaustible stock of tritium bombs, and to hell with the shelf-life problem! "Besides, if you've Uiought about it at all, you know as well as I do that this endless con.solidation of peaceful planets can't go on forever. Sooner or later -- well, what happens if the next planet we touch on is a place like Earth? If it is, its inhabitants may fight, and fight like a planetful of madmen, to stay out of our frame of influence. Or what happens if the next planet we hit is an outpost for a whole federation, maybe bigger than ours? When that day comes -- and It will, it's in the caids -- we'll be damned glad if we're able to plaster the enemy from pole to pole the matter with as little loss of lile as possible." "On our side." Rui-Sanclie added. "Is there any oilier side;'" "By golly, it makes sens(o me." .Agrtnski said. "Mike, what do vou think?" "I'm not sure yet," Michelis said. "Paul, I still don't understand why you thought it necessary to go through all the cloakand-ilagger maneuvers. 'ou tell your story fairly enough now, and it has its merits, but you also admit you were going to trick the three of us into going along with you, if you could. Why? Couldn't you trust the force of your argument alone?" "No," Cleaver said bluntly. never b"en on a Commission like this before, where there was no single, definite litairman. where there was deliberatelv an even number of mrnibcrs o dial a split opinion couldn't be settled if it occurred -- and wIktc the voice of a man whose head is full ff jiecksnifRan. irrelevant moral distinctions and two-tliousand-Ycar-old metaphysics carries c.xai l!' the same weight as the voice of a scientist." "That's mightv loaded language," Michelis said. "I know it. If it comes to that. I'll say here or anywhere that I think the Father is a hcl! of a fine biologist, and that that makes him a scientist like the rest of us -- insofar as biology's a science. "But I runemiMT once casting tile lab.s at Notre D.mie, where the have a coniph'te lif.le world ol genn-liee aiiim.d-i .ind plants and have pulled I ilon't knovv hovs many plissiological miracles out ol tile h.itI wondered then how one goe.s atioiii being as good a scientist as iImi. and a Churcliman at the same lime. I wondered in which com).irtment in their hraiiw tlicy filed tlioir religion, and in which their .science. Pm still vondering. "I didn't propose to take chances on tlie compartnienls getting interconnected on Lithia. I had every intention of cutting the Father down to a point where his voice would be nearly ignored by the rest of you. That's why I undertook the cloak-and-dagger stufl'. Maybe it vas stupid of me-I suppose lliat it takes training to be a su-ce.s.sful agenl-mvocaleur and that I sliould have realized it. Bui I'm not .sori I tried. J'm ouly Sony I faiU-dr silence. "Is that it. then?" Michelis said. "That's it, Mike. Oh -- one more tiling. Mv vote, if anvbodv is in doubt about it, is to keep the planet closed. 'I'.ike it from there." "Ramon." Michelis said, "do you want to speak next? 'ou'e ccrtainlv entitled to it the air's a mite murky at die moment." "No, Mike; let's lu-ar from you." "I'm not ready to speak, yet either, unless the majority wants me to. AgronsJd, how about you?" "Sure," Apronski said. "Speaking as a geologist, and also as an ondinary slob that doesn't follow rarified rvasoning very well, I'm on Cleaver's side. I dcwi't .sec anything either for or against the planet on any other grounds but Cleaver's. It's a fair planet as planets go, very quiet, not very rich in anything else we need, not subject to any kind of trouble that I've been able to detect. It'd make a good way station, but .so would lots of other worlds hereabouts. It'd also make a good arsenal, the way Cleaver defined the term. In every other category it's as dull as ditch-water, and it's got plenty of that. The only other thing it can have to offer is titanium, which isn't quite a.s scarce back home these days as Mike seems to think, and gem-stones, particularly the semi-precious ones, which we can make at home without traveling # light-years. I'd say, either set up a way station here and forget about the planet otherwise, or else handle the place a.s Cleaver suggested." "But which?" Ruiz-.Sanchez asked. "Well, which is more important, Father? Aren't way stations a dime a dozen? Planets that can be used as thermonuclear labs, on the other hand, are rare -- Lithia is the first one that can be used that way, at least in my experience. Why use a planet for a routine purpose if it can be used for a unique purpose? Why not apply Occam's Razor -- the law of parsimony? It works in all other scientific problems. It's iny bet that it's the best tool to use on this one." You vote to close the planet, then," Michelis said. "Sure. That's what I was saying, wasn't it?" "I wanted to be certain." Michelis said. "Ramon, I gues.s it's up to us. Shall I speak first?" "Of course, Mike." "Then," Michelis said evenly, and without changing in the slightest his accustomed tone of grave impartiality, "I'll say that I think both of these gentlemen are fools, and calamitous fools at that because they're supposed to be scientists. Paul, your maneuvers to set up a phony situation are perfectly beneath contempt, and I shan't mention them again. I shan't even bother to record them, so you needn't feel tliat you have to mend any fences as far as I'm concerned. I'm looking solely at the purpose those maneuvers were supposed to serve, just as you asked me to do." Cleaver's obious self-satisfaction began to dim a little around the edges. He said, "Go ahead," and wound the blanket a little bit tighter around his legs. L ithia is not even the beginning ' of an arsenal," Michelis .said. "Every piece of evidence you offered to prove that it might be is either a half-truth or the purest tra.sh. Cheap labor, for instance; with what w'ill you pay the Lithians? They have no money, and they can't Ije rewarded with goods. They have ewrything they n(ed, and they like the way they're living right now -- God knows they're not even slightly jealous of the achievements we think make Earth great." He looked around the gently rounded room, shining softly in the gaslight. "I don't seem to see anyplace in here where a vacuun;cleaner would find much use. Howwill you pay the Lithians to work 'in your ihennonuclear plants ?" "With knowledge," Cleaver said gruffly. "#'here's a lot they'd like to know." "But what knowledge? The things they'd like to know are specifically the things you can't tell them if ihev're to be valuable to you as a labor force. Are you going to teach tlicm quantum theor'? You can't; tliat would bo dangerous. Are you going to teach them elcctrodsTiamics? Again, tliat would enable them to learn other things you think dangerous. Are you going to teach them how to get titanium from ore, or how to accumulate enough iron to enable them to leave their present Stone Age? Of course you aren't. As a matter of fact, we haven't a thing to offer tliein in that sense. They just won't work for us under those terms." "Offer them other tenns," Cleaver said .shortly. "If necessjiry, tell them what they're going to do, like it or lump it. It'd he easy enough to introduce a money system on tliis planet: you give a Snake a piece of paper that says it's worth a dollar, and if he asks you just what makes it worth a dollar -- well, the answer Is, We say it is." "And we put a machine-pistol to his belly to emphasize the point," Ruiz-Sanchez interjected. "Do we make machine-pistols for nothing? I never figured out what else they were good for. Either you point them at someone or you throw them awav." "Item: sljvcry," Michclis said. gument for (heap labor. I won't vote for slavery. Ramon won't. Agronski?" "No," Agronski said uneasily. "But it's a minor point." "The hell it is. It's the reason why we're here. We're supposed to think of the welfare of the Lithians as well as of ourselves -- otherwise this Cominis.sjon procedure would be a waste of time, of thought, of money. If we want cheap lalwr, we can enslave any planet." Agronski was silent. "Speak up," Michelis said stonily. "Is that tnic, or isn't it?" Agronski .said, "I gucs.s it is.' "Cleaver?" "Slavery's a swearword," Cleaver said sullenly. "You're deliberately clouding the issue." Say that aii,aw' "Oh, hell. All right, Mike, T know you wouldn't. But you're wrong." "I'll admit that the instant that you ran demonstrate it to me," Michelis said. He got up abruptly from his hassock, walked over to the sloping windowsill, and sat down again, looking out into the rain-stippled darkness. He seemed to be more deeply troubled than Ruiz-Sanchez had ever before thought possible for him. suraed, "I'll go on with my own demonstration. Now whats to be said about this theory of automatic security that you've propounded, Paul? You think that the Lithians can't learn the techniques they would need to be able to understand secret information and pass it on, and so they won't have to be screened. There again, you're wrong, as you'd have known if you'd bothered to study the Lithians even perfunctorily. The Lithians are highly intelligent, and they already have many of the clues they need. I've given them a hand toward pinning down magnetism, and they absorbed the material like magic and put it to work with enormous ingenuity." "So did #," Ruiz-Sanchez said. "And I've suggested to them a technique for accumulating iron that should prove to be pretty powerful. I had only to suggest it, and they were already halfway down to the bottom of it and traveling fast. They can make the most of the smallest of clues." "If I were the UN I'd regard both actions as the plainest kind of treason," Cleaver said harshly. "Since that may be exactly the way Earth will regard them, I think it'd be just as well if you told the folks at home that the Snakes found out bodi items by themselves." "I don't plan to do any falsifying of the report," Michelis said, "but thanks anyhow -- I appreciate the intent behind what you say, if not the ethics. I'm not through, however. So far as the actual, practical objective that you want to achieve is concerned, Paul, I think it's just as useless as it is impossible. The fact that you have here a planet that's especially rich in lithium doesn't mean that you're sitting on a bonanza, no matter what price per tonne the metal is commanding back home. The fact of the matter is that you can't ship lithium home. "Its density is so low that you couldn't send away more than a tonne of it per shipload; by the time you got it to Earth the shipping charges on it would more than outweigh the price you'd get for it on arrival. As you ought to know, tliere's lots of lithium on Earth's own moon, too, and it isn't economical to fly it back to Earth even over that short distance. No more would it be economical to ship from Earth to Lithia all the heavy equipment that would be needed to make use of lithium here. By the time you got your cyclotron and the rest of your needs to Lithia, you'd have cost the UN so much money that no amount of locally available pegmatite could compensate for it." "Just extracting the metal would cost a fair sum," Agronski said, frowning slightly. "Lithium would bum like gasoline in this atmosphere." Michelis looked from Agronski to Cleaver and back again. "Of course it would," he said. "The whole plan's just a chimfira. It seems to me, also, that we have a lot to learn from the Lithians, as well as they from us. Their social system works like the most perfect of our physical mechanisms, and it does so without any apparent repression of the individual. It's a thoroughly liberal society, that nevertheless never even begins to tip over toward the other side, toward the kind of Ghandiism that keeps a people tied to the momma-andpoppa-farm and the roving-brigand economy. It's in balance, and not precarious balance, either, but per feet chemical equilibrium. "The notion of using Litliia as a tritium bomb plant is easily the strangest anachronism Tve ever encountered -- it's as crude as pro posing to equip a spaceship with canvas sails. Right here on Lithia is the real secret, the secret that's going to make bombs of all kinds, and all the re.st of the anti-social armamentarium, as useless, unnecessary, obsolete as the Iron Boot! "And on top of all that -- no, please, Trn not quite finished, Paul -- on top of all that, the Lithians are centuries aJicad of us in some purely technical matters, just as we're ahead of them in others. You should see what they can do with ceramics, with semi-conductors, with static electricity, with mixed disciplines like histochemistry, immunochemistry, biophysics, teratology, elcctrogcnetics, linmolog', and half a hundred more. If vou'd been looking, you would have seen. "We have much more to do, it seems to me, than just vote to open the planet. That's a passive move. We have to realize that bt'ing able to use Lithia is only the beginning. The fact of the matter is that we actively need Lithia. We should say so in our recommendation." the windoss-sill and stood up, looking down on them all, but most especially at Ruiz-Sanchez. The priest smiled at him. but as much ii anguish as in admiration, and then had to look back at his shoes. "Well, .'Xgronski?" Cleaver said, spitting the words out like bullets on which he had been clenching his teeth during an amputation without anesthetics. "What do you say now? Do you like the pretty picture?" "Sure, I like it," Agronski said, slowly but forthrightly. It was a virtue in him, as well as it was often a source of exasperation, that he always said exactly what he was thinking, the moment he was asked to do so. "Mike makes sense; I wouldn't expect him not to, if you see what I mean. Also he's got another advantage: he told us what he thoul without trying first to trick us into liis way of thinking." "Oh, don't be a thumphead," Cleaver exclaimed. "Are we scientists or Boy Rangers? Any rational man up against a majority of dogooders would have taken the same precautions that I did." "Maybe," Aonski said. "I don't know. They .still smell to me like a confession of weakness somewhere in the argument. I don't like to be finessed. And I don't much like to be called a thumphead, either. But before you call me any more names, I'm going to say that I think you're more right than Mike is, I don't like your methods, but your aim seems sensible to me. Mike's shot some of your major arguments full of holes, that I'll admit; but as far as I'm concerned, you're still leading -- by a nose." He paused, breathing heavily and glaring at the physicist. Then he said: "But don't push, Paul. I don't like being pushed." Michelis remained standing for a moment longer. Then he shrugged, walked back to his has sock, and sat down, locking his hands between his knees. "I did my best, Ramon," he sakJ. "But so far it looks like a draw. See what you can do " Ruiz-Sanchez took a deep breath. What he was about to do would without any doubt hurt him for the rest of his life, regardless of the goodness of his reasons, or the way time had of turning any knife. The decision had already cost him many hours of concentrated, agonized doubt. But he believed that it had to be done. T disagree with all of you," he said. "I llieve that Lithia should be reported triple-E Unfavorable, as Cleaver does. But I think it should also be given a special classification: X-#." X-I -- but that's a quarantine label," Michelis said. "As a matter of fact -- " "Yes, Mike. I vote to seal Lithia off from ail contact with the human race. Not only now, or for the next century, but forever." vm T he words did not produce the consternation that he had been dreading -- or, perhaps, had been hopii for, somewhere in the back of his mind. Evidently they were all too tired for that. They took his announcement with a kind of stunned emptiness, as though it were so far out of the expected order of events as to be quite meaningless. It was hard to say whether Cleaver or Michelis had been hit the harder. All that could be seen for certain was that Agronski recovered first, and was now ostentatiously cleaning his ears, as if he were ready to Ibten again when Ruiz-Sanchez changed his mind. "Well," Cleaver began. And then again, shaking his head amazedly, like an old man, "Well..." "Tell us why, Ramon," Michelis said, clenching and unclenching his fists. His voice was quite flat, but Ruiz-Sanchez thought he could feel the pain under it. "Of course. But I warn you, Fm going to be very roundabout. What I have to say seems to me to be of the utmost importance, and I don't want to see it rejected out of hand as just the product of my peculiar training and prejudices -- interesting perhaps as a study in aberration, but not germane to the problem. The evidence for my view of Lithia is overwhelming. It overwhelmed me quite against my natural hopes and inclinations. I want you to hear that evidence." "He wants us also to understand," Cleaver said, recovering a little of his natural impatience, "That his reasons are religious and won't hold water if he states them right out."  "Hush," Michelis said. "Listen." "Thank you, Mike. All right, here we go. This planet is what I think is called in English a 'set-up. Let me describe it for you briefly as I see it, or rather as I've come to see it. "Lithia is a paradise. It resembles most closely the Earth in its preAdamic period just before tlic coming of the great glaciers. The resemblance ends just there, because on Lithia the glaciers never cam", and life continued to he spent in the paradi.se. as it was nol allowi.-d to do on Earth. We ftml a coinplctely mixed forC't. with jil.mts which fall from otu(muI if the creative spectrum to ilie other living side by side in perfect amity. To a great extent tliat's also true of the animals, I'he lion doesn't lie down witli the lamb here because Litltia has neitjicr animal, but as an analogy the phrasc' is apt. Parasitism occurs far less often on Lithia t)ian it docs on Earth, and dtere are very few carnivores of any sort. Almost all the surviving land animals eat plants only, and by a neat arrangement whi h is typically Lithian, the plants are admirably set up to attack animals ratlier than each other. "It's an unusual ecology', and fne of the strangest diings about it is its rationality, its extreme, almost single-minded insistence on one-forone relationshis. In one respect it looks almost as though someone had arranged the whole planet to demonstrate die theory of .sets. "In this paradise wi' have a dominant creature, the Lithian. the man of Lithia. This creature is rational. It conforms as ii naturally and without constraint or guidance to the highest ethical code we have evolved on Earth. It needs no laws to enforce this code; somehow, cver)'onc obeys it as a matter of course, although it ha.s never even been written down. There arc no criminals, no deviants, no aberrations of any kind. The people are not standardized -- our own very bad and partial answer to the ethical dilemma -- but instead are highly individual. Yet .somehow no antiMK'ial act of any kind is ever cominiitcd. "Mik-, let mistop liere and ask; What does this suggr'st to you?" "Why, just what I've said before that it suggested," Micliclis said. "An enormously .superior social science, evidently founded in a precise psychological science." "Wry well, I'll go on. I felt as you did at first. Then I came to ask myself: How does it happen that tlie Lithians not only have no deviants -- think of that, vo deviants -- but it just happens, by the uttermost of all coincidences, that tlic code by which they live so perfectly is point for point the code wc strive to obey. Consider, please, the imjxmderables involved in such a coincidence. Even on Earth wc neviT have found a society which evolved independently exactly the satne precepts as the Christian precepts. Oil, there were some duplications, enough to encourage the Twentieth Centui's partiality toward synthetic religions like Thcosophism and Hollywood Vedanta, but no ethical sy.stem on Earth that grew up independently of Cliristianity agreed with it point for point. "And yet here, # light-years from Earth, what do we find? A Chri.stian people, lacking nothing but the specific proper names and the symbolic appurtenances of Christianty. I don't know how you three react to this, but I found it extraordinary and indeed completely impossible -- mathematically impossible -- under any assumption but one. I'D get to that assumption in a moment." "You can't get there too soon for me," Cleaver said morosely. "How a man can stand # light-years from home in deep space and talk such parochial nonsense is beyond my comprehension." "Parochial?" Ruiz-Sanchez said, more angrily than he had intended. "Do you mean that sriiat we think true on Earth is automatically made suspect just by the fact of its removal into deep spare? I beg to remind you, Cleaver, that quantum mechanics seems to hold good on Lithia, and that you see nothing parochial about behaving as if it did. If I believe in Peru that God created the universe, I see nothing parochial about believing it on Lithia. "A while back I thought I had been provided an escape hatch, incidentally. Chtexa told me that the Lithians would like to modify the growth of their population, and he implied that they would welcome some form of birth control. But, as it turned out, birth control in the sense that my Church interdicts it Is impossible to Lithia, and what Chtexa had in mind was obviously some form of conception control, a proposition to which my Church has already given its qualified assent. So there I was, even on this small point forced again to realize that we had found on Lithia the most colossal rebuke to our aspirations that we had ever encountered : A people that seemed to live with ease the kind of life which we associate with saints alone. "Bear in mind that a Muslim who visited Lithia would find no such thing. Neither would a Taoist. Neither would a Zoroastrian, presuming that there were still such, or a classical Greek. But for the four of us -- and J include you, Cleaver, for despite your tricks and your agnosticism you still subscribe to the Christian ethical doctrines enough to be put on the defensive when you flout them -- what we have here on Lithia is a coincidence which beggars description. It is more than an astronomical coincidence -- that tired old phrase for numbers that don't seem very large any more -- it is a iransfinite coincidence. It would take Cantor himself to do justice to the odds against it." "Wait a minute," Agronski said. "Holy smoke. Mike, I don't know any anthropology, I'm lost here. I was with the Father up to the part about the mixed forest, but I don't have any standards to judge the rest. Is it so, what he says?" "Yes, I think it's so," Michelis said slowly. "But there could be differences of opinion as to what It means, if anything. Ramon, go on." describing the planet, and more particularly the Lithians. The Lithians take a lot of explaining; what I've said about them thus far states only the most obvious fact I could go on to point out many more equally obvious facts; that they have no nations and no national rivalries (and if you'll look at the map of Lithia you'll see every reason why they should have developed such rivalries) , that they have emotions and passions but are I Al never moved by them to irrational acts, tliat they have only one langxiage, that they exist in complete harmony with evers thing, large and small, that they find in their world. In shcl, thev-'re a peoijle that couldn't exist, and vet does. "Mike, I'd go beyojKl your view to say diat the Lithian-i are themost perfect examph ol how human beings OXiht to l)thavr ll at very simple reason ih.it they Imhavc now the way Inmuin Ix'ings once did before a series of tilings happened of which we have record. I'd go even farther beyond it, far enough to say that as an example the Litliians arc useless to us, because until the coming of the Kingdom of God no substantial number of human beings will ever be able to imitate Llthian conduct. Human beings seem to have built-in imperfections that the Lithians lack, .so that after thousands of years of trying we are farther away than ever from our origirul emblems of conduct, while the Lithians have never departed from theirs. "And don't allow vourselves to forget for an instant that these eniblciiis of conduct arc the same on both planets. That couldn't ever have happened, either. But it did. "I'm now going to describe another interesting fae:t alioul Lithian civilization. It Ls a fact, whatever you may think of its merits as e;ndencc. It is this: that your Lithian is a creature of logic. Unlike Eartlimen of all stripes, he has no gods, no myths, no legends. He has no lclief in the supernatural, or, as we're calling it in our barbarous jargon these days, the 'paranormal.' He has no traditions. Hr has no tabus. He has no faiths, blind or otherwise. lie is arational as a machine. Inili'rd, the rm!v way in which we can distinguish the Lithian from an organic computer is his possession and use of a moral code. "And that, I beg you to observe, is (oinplclcly irralioii.al. It is based Ilium a set of axioms, of propositions whicli were 'given' from the Ugiiining -- tliough your Lithian will not allow that llierc was ever Clilexa, believes in the .s.inctity ol the individual. Why? Not ly reason, suri'Iy, for there is no way to reason to that )roposilim. It is an axiom. Chtexii believe.s in juridical defen.se. in the equality of all before the code. Why? It's possible to behavi reasonably from the proj)ositlon hut not to reason one's way to it. "If ytm a'sumc that the responsibility to the code varies with age. or with the nature of one's work, or with what family vou happen to belong to, logical behavior can follow from one of those assumptions, but there again one can't arrive at the principle hy reason alone. One begins with belief: 'I think that all people ougiu to be equal before the law.' That is a statement of faitli. nothing more. Yet Lithian civilization is so set up as to suggest that one can arrive at such basic axioms of Christianity, and of Western civilization on Earth as a whole, by reason alone, in tlie plain face of the fact that one cannot." "Those are axioms," Cleaver growled. "You don't arrive at them bv faith, either. You don't arrive at them at all. They re self-eident "Like the axiom that only one parallel can be dravs-n to a given line? Go on, Cleaver, you're a physicist; kick a stone for me and tell me it's self-evident that the thing is solid." "It's puliar," Michelis said in a low voice, "that Liihian culture should be so axiom-ridden without the Lithians being aware of it. I hadn't formulated it in quite this way before, Ramon, but I've been disturbed myself at the bottomless assumptions that He behind Lithian reasoning. Look at what they've done in solid-state physics, for instance. It's a structure of the purest kind of reason, and yet when you get down to its fundamental assumptions you discover the axiom that matter is real. How can thev know that? How did logic lead them to it? If I say that the atom is just a hole-inside-a-holc-througha-hole, where can reason intervene?" "But it works," Cleaver said. "So does our solid-state phyucs -- but we work on opposite axioms," Michelis said. "That's not the issue. I don't myself see how this immense structure of reason which the Lithians have evolved can stand for an instant It doesn't seem to rest on anything." "I'm going to tell you," Rui#Sanchez said. "You won't believe me, but I'm going to tell you anyhow, because I have to. It stands because it's being propped up. That's the simple answer and the whole answer. But first I want to add one more fact about the Lithians. "They have complete physical recapitulation outside the by." "What does that mean?" Agronski said. "Do you know how a human child grows inside its mother's body? It is a one-celled animal to begin with, and then a simple metazoan resembling the freshwater hydra or the simplest jellyfish. Then, very rapidly, it goes through many other animal forms, including the fish, the amphibian, the reptile, the lower mammal, and finally becomes enough like a man to be born. This process biologists call recapitulation. "They assume that the embryo is passing through the various stages of evolution which brought life from the single-celled organism to man, on a contracted time scale. There is a point, for instance, in the development of the fetus when it has gilts. It has a tail almost to the very end of its time in the wcMnb, and sometimes still has it when it is bom. Its circulatory sy.stem at one point is reptilian, and if it fails to pass successfully through that stage, it is born as a bluc baby with patent ductus arteriosus, the tetralogy of Fallot, or a similar heart defect. And so on." "I see," Agronski said. "I've encountered Ae idea before, of course, but I didn't recognize the term." "Well, the Lithians, too, go through this series of metamorphoses as they grow up, but they go through it outside the bodies of their mothers. This whole planet is one huge womb. The Lithian female lays her eggs in her abdominal pouch, and then goes to the sea to give birth to her children. What she bears is not a reptile, but a fish. The fish lives in the sea a while, and tiien develops rudimentary lungs and comes asltore. Stranded bv the tides on the flats, the lungfish develops rudimentary legs and stjuirms in the mud, becoming an amphibian and learning to endure the rigors of li ing away from the sea. Gradually their limlM become stronger, and better set on their bodies, and tlicy become the big froglike things we sometimes see leaping in the mX)nlight, trying to get away from the crocodiles. "Many of them do get away. They carry their habit of leaping with them into the jungle, and there they change once again to liecome the small, kangaroo-like reptiles we've all seen, at one time or another, fliving from us among litc trees, nventually, they emerge, fully grown, from the jungles and take their place.s among the folk of the cities as young Lithians, mady for education. But they have already learned every trick of every environment that their world has to offer except those of their own civilization." gether again and looked up at Ruiz-Saneliez. "But that's a discovery beyond price!" he said with quiet excitement. "Ramon, that alone is worth our trip to Lithia.  can't imagine why it would lead you to ask that the planet be clo.scd! Surely your Church can't object to it in anv wav -- after all, vour then   rists did accept recapitulation in the human embryo, and also the geological record that showed the same process in action over longer spans of time." "Not," Rulz-Sanchez said, "in the way that you think w'e did. The Church accepted the facts, as it alwavs accepts facts. But -- as you )-oursclf suggested not ten minutes ago -- facts have a way of pointing in several different directions at once. The Church is as hostile to the doctrine of evolution -- particularly in respect to man -- as it ever was, and with good reason." "Or with obdurate stupidity," Cleaver said. "All right, Paul, look at it very simply with the original premisc.s of the Bible in mind. If we assume just for the s.ike of argument that God crealeil man, did lie create him ierfect? I should suppose that He did. Is a man perfect without a navel. I don't know, but I'd lx inclined to .say that he isn't. Yet the first man -- Adam, again for the sake of argument -- wasn't bom of woman, and so didn't really need to have a navel. Nevertheless he would have been imperfect without it, and I'll bet that he had one." "What does that prove?" "That the geolcical record, and recapitulation too, do not prove the doctrine of evolution. Given my initial axiom, which is that God created everything from scratch, it's perfectly logical that He should have given Adam a navel, Earth a geological record, and the embryo the process of recapitulation. None of these indicate a real past; all are there lecause the creations involved would have been imperfect otherwise." "Wow'," Cleaver said. "And I used to think that Milne relativity was abstruse." "Oh, any coherent system of thought becomes abstruse if it's examined long enough. I don't see why my belief in a God you can't accept is any more rarefied than Mike's vision of the atom as a holeinside-a-hole-through-a-hole. I expect that in the long run, when we get right down to the fundamental particles of the universe, we'll find that there's nothing there at all -- just no-things moving no-place through no-time. On the day that that happens, I'll have God and you will not -- otherwise there'll be no diflerence between us. "But in the meantime, what we have here on Lithia is very clear indeed. We have -- and now I'm prepared to be blunt -- a planet and a people propped up by the Ultimate Enemy. It is a gigantic trap prepared for all of us. We can do nothing with it but reject it, nothing but say to it. Retro me, Sathanas. If we compromise with it in any way, we are damned.' "Why, Father?" Michelis said quietly. "Look at the premises, Mike. One: Reason is always a sufficient guide. Two: The self-evident is always the real. Three: Good works are an end in themselves. Four: Faith is irrelevant to right action. Five: Right action can exist without love. Six: Peace need not pass understanding. Seven: Ethics can exist without evil alternatives. Eight: Morals can exist without conscience. Nine -- but do I really need to go on? We have heard all these propositions before, and we know Who proposes them. "And we have seen these demonstrations before -- the demonstration, for instance, in the rocks which was supposed to show how the horse evolved from Eohippus, but which somehow never managed to convince the whole of mankind. Then the discovery of intra-uterine recapitulation, which was to have clinched the case for the so-called descent of man -- and yet, somehow, failed again to produce general agreement. These were both very subtle arguments, but the Church is not easily swayed; it is founded on a rock. "Now we have, on Lithia, a new demonstration, both the subtlest and at the same time the crudest of all. It will sway many people who could have been swayed in no other way, and who lack the intelligence or the background to understand that it is a rigged demonstration. It seems to show us evolution in action on an inarguable scale. It is supposed to settle the question once and for all, to rule God out of the picture, to snap the chains that have held Peter's rock together all these many centuries. Henceforth there is to be no more question; there is to be no more God, but only phenomenology -- and, of course, behind the scenes, within the hole that's inside the hole that's through a hole, the Great Nothing itself, the thing that has never learned any word but No: It has many other names, but we know the name that counts. That's left us. "Paul, Mike, Agronski, I have nothing more to say than this: We are ail of us standing on the brink of Hell. By the grace of God, we may still turn back. We must turn back -- for I at least think tliat this is our last chance." IX was that. Tlie Coininissinn was tied, and the question would he tliiown open again in higher cclielons on Earth, which would mean tying Lithia up for vears to come. Tlie planet was now, in effect, on the Index. The ship arrived the next day. The crew was not much surprised to find that the two opposing factions of the Commission were harlly .speaking to eaih other. It often liappened that way. The four Commission members cleaiu'd up the house the Lithians had given tlieni in almost complete silence. Ruiz-Sanchez packed tlie blue book with the gold stamping without being able to look at it except out of the comer of his eye, but even obliquely ho could not help seeing its title : James Joyce He felt as though he himself had been collated, bound and stamped, a tortured human text for futim? generations of Jesuits to explicate and argue. He had rendered the verdict he had found it ncce.ssary for him to render. But he knew tliaf It was not a final verdict, even for himself, and certainly not for the UN, !el alone the Church. In.stead, the verdict itself would be the knotty question for members of his Order yet unborn : Did Father Rniz-Sonchez correctly uiterpret the Divine case, and did his Tulinfi, if so, follow from it? "Let's go, Father. It'll be takeoff time in a few minutes." "All ready, Mike." It was only a short journey to the clearing, where the mighty spindle of the ship stood ready to weave its way back through the geodesics of deep space to tlie .sun that shone on Peru. The baggage went on board smoothly and without fuss. So did tlic specimens, the films, the special reports, the recordings, the sample cases, the vivariums, tlie aquariums, the type-cultures, the pressed plants, the tubes of soil, the chunks of ore, the Lithian manuscripts in their atmosphere of nton; everything was lifted decorously by the cranes and swung inside. Agronski went up the cleats to tlic airlock first, with Michelis following him. Cleaver was stowing some last-minute bit of gear, something that .seemed to require delicate, almost reverent care before the cranes could be allowed to take it in their indifferent grip. RuizSanchez took advantage of the slight delay to look around once moic at the near margins of the forest. At once, he saw Chtexa. The Lilhian was standing at the entrance to the path the Earthmen themselves had taken away from the city to reach the ship. He was carrying something. Cleaver swore under his breath and undid something he had just (Conlinved on page II#) Alexander Pope wrote  Atoms or systems into ruin hurled And now a bubble burst, and now a world' He died in # -- but poets are sometimes the best prophets! The Trouble with By Philip K. Dick lliustroted by Joseph ft. Eberle face car and crossed the pavement on fool, sniffing the chill morning air. Robot work-trucks were starting to rumble past. A gutter slot sucked night debris grtedily. A vanlsliing headline caught liis eye momentarily: He passed on away from the corner, hands in his pockets, looking for Farley's house. Past the usual Worldcraft Store with its conspicuous motto: "Own Your Own World!" Down a short grass-lined walk and onto a sloping tilt-front porch. Up three imitation marble stairs. Then Hull flicked his hand before the code beam and the door melted away. The house was still. Hull found the ascent tube to the second floor and peered up. No sound. Warm air blew around him, tinged with faint smells -- smells of food and people and familiar objects. Had they gone? No. It was only the third day; they'd be around someplace, maybe up on the roof terrace. He ascended to tire second floor and found it also vacant. But distant sounds drifted to his ean. A tinkle of laughter, a man's voice. A woman's -- perhaps Julia's. He hoped so -- hoped she were still conscious. He tried a door at random, steeling himself. S.ometimes during the third and fourth davs the Contest Parties got a little rough. The door melted, but the room was empty. Couches, empty glasses, ashtrays, exhausted stimulant tubes, articles of clothing strewn everywhere -- Abruptly Julia Marlow and Max Farley appeared, arm in arm, followed by sever others, pushing forward in a group, excited and red-cheeked, eyes bright, almost feverish. They entered the room and halted. "Nat!" Julia broke away frtxn Farley and came breathlessly up to him. "Is it that late already?' "Third day," Hull said. "HeUo, Max." "Hello, Hull. Sit down and make yourself comfortable. Can I get you something?" "Nothing. Can't stay. Julia -- " Farley waved a robant over, sweeping two drinks from its chest tray. "Here, Hull. You can stay long enough for one drink." Bart Longstreet and a slender blonde a!ared through a door. "Hull! You here? So socm?" "Third day. I'm picking Julia up. If she still wants to leave." "Don't take her away," the slim blonde protested. She wore a side glance robe, invisible out of the comer of the eye, but an opaque fountain when looked at directly. "They're judging right now. In the lounge. Stick around. The fun's Just beginning." She winked at him with heavy blue-lidded eyes, glazed and sleep-drugged. Hull turned to Julia. "If you want to stay... Julia put her hand nervously on his arm, standing close to him. Not bang her fixed smile she grated m his ear: "Nat, for God's sake, get me out of here. I can't stand it. Please!" Hull caught her intense appeal, her eyes bright vyith desperation. He could feel the mute urgency quivering through her body, tense and strained. "Okay, Julia. We'll take off. Maybe get some breakfast. When did you last eat?" "Two days. I think. I don't know." Her voice trembled. "They're judging right now. God, Nat. You should have seen -- " "Can't go until the judgings over," Farley rumbled. "I think they're almost throu. You didn't enter, Hull? No entry for you?" "No entry." "Surely you're an owner -- " "Nope. Sorry." Hull's voice was faintly ironic. "No world of my own, Max. Can't see it." "You're missing something." Max beamed dopily, rocking back on his heels. "Quite a time -- best Contest Party for weeks. And the real fun begins after the judging. All this is just preliminary." "I know." Hull moved Julia rapidly toward the descent tube. "We'll sec you. So long, Bart. Give me a call when you're out of here." "Hold it!" Bart murmured suddenly, cocking his head. "The judging's over. The winner is going to be announced." He pushed toward the lounge, the othen excitedly behind. "You coming, Hull? Julia?" Hull glanced at the girl. "All right." They followed reluctantly, "For a minute, maybe." The lounge was a seething "I won!" Lora Becker shouted in ecstasy. People pushed and shoved around her, toward the Contest table, grabbing up their entries. Their voices grew in volume, an ominous rumble of discordant sound. Robants calmly moved furniture and fixtures back out of the way, clearing the floor rapidly. An unleashed frenzs' of mounting hysteria was begiiming to fill the big room. "I know it!" Julia's fingers tightened around Hull's arm. "Come on. Let's get out before they start." "Start?" "Listen to them!" Julia's eyes flickered with fear. "Come on, Nat! I've had enough. I can't stand any more of this." "I told you before you came." "You did, didn't you?" Julia smiled briefly, grabbing her coat from a robant. She fastened the coat rapidly around her breasts and shoulders. "I admit it. You told me. Now let's go, for God's sake." She turned, making her way through the surging ma.ss of people toward the descent tube. "Let's get out of here. We'll have breakfa.st. You w'ere right. These things aren't for us." Lora Becker, plump and middleaged, was making her way up onto the stand beside the judges, her entry clasped in her arms. Hull paused a moment, watching the immense woman struggle up. her chemically corrected features gray and sagging in the unwinking overhead lights. The third dav -- a lot of old-timers were beginning to show the effects, even through their artificial masks. Lora reached the stand. "Look!" she shouted, holding up her entry. The Worldcraft bubble glittered, catching the light. In spite of himself Hull had to admire the thing. If the actual world inside was as good as the exterior... Lora turned on the bubble. It The roomful of people became silent, gazing up at the winning entry, the world that had taken the , prize over all other comers. Lora Becker's entry was masterful. Even Hull had to admit it...She increased the magnification, bringing the microscopic central planet into focus. A murmur of admiration swept the room. Again Lora increased the magnification. I'hc central planet grew, showing a pale green ocean lapping faintly at a low shoreline. A city came into view, towers and broad streets, fine ribbons of gold and steel. Above, twin suns beamed down, warming the city. Myriads of inhabitants swarmed about their activities. "Wonderful," Bart Longstrect said softly, coming over beside Hull. "But the old hag has been at it sixty )'ears. No wonder she won. She's entered every Contest I can remember," "It's nice," Julia admitted in a clipped voice. "You don't care for it?" Longstreet asked. "I don't care for any of this!" "She wants to go," Hull explained, moving toward the descent tube. "We'll see you later, Bart." Bart Longstreet nodded. "I know what you mean. In many ways I agree. You mind if I -- " "Watch!" Lora Becker shouted, her face flushed. She increased the magnification to maximum focus, showing details of the minute city. "See them? See?' The inhabitants of the city came into sharp view. They hurried about their business, endless thousands of them. In cars and on foot. Across spidery spans between buildings, breathtakingly beautiful. Lora held the Worldcraft bubble up high, breathing rapidly. She gazed around the room, her eyes bright and inflamed, glittering unhealthily. The murmurings rose, sweeping up in excitement. Numerous Worldcraft bubbles came up, chest-high, gripped in eager, impassioned hands. Lora's mouth opened. Saliva dribbled down the creases of her sagging face. Her lips twitched. She raised her bubble up over her head, her doughy chest swelling convulsively. Suddenly her face jerked, features twisting wildly. Her thick body swayed grotesquely -- and from her hands the Worldcraft bubble flew, crashing to the stand in front of her. The bubble smashed, bursting into a thousand pieces. Metal and glass, plastic parts, gears, struts, tubes, the vital machinery of the bubble, splattered in all directions. Pandemonium broke loose. All around the room other owners were smashing their worlds, breaking them and crushing them, stamping on them, grinding the delicate control mechanisms underfoot. Men and women in a frenzy of abandon, released by Lora Becker's signal, quivering in an orgy of Dionysian lust. Crushing and breaking their carefully constructed worlds, one after another. "God," Julia gasped, struggling to get away, Longstreet and Hull beside her. Faces gleamed with sweat, eyes feverish and bright. Mouths gaped foolishly, muttering meaningless sounds. Clothes were tom, ripped off. A girl went down, sliding underfoot, her shrieks lost in the general din. Another followed, dragged and women struggled in a blur of abandon, cries and gasps. And on all sides the hideous sounds of smashing metal and glass, the unending noise of worlds being destroyed one after another. Julia dragged Hull from the lounge, her face white. She shuddered, closing her eyes. "I knew it was coming. Three days, building up to Ais. Smashed -- they're smashing them all. All the worlds.' Bart Longstreet made his way out after Hull and Julia. "Lunatics." He lit a cigarette shakily. "What the hell gets into them? This has happened before. They start breaking, smashing their worlds up. It doesn't make sense." Hull reached the descent tube, "tome along with us, Bart. We'll have breakfast -- and I'll give you my theory, for what it's worth." "Just a second." Bart Longstreet scooped up his Worldcraft bubble from the arms of a robant. "My Contest entry. Don't want to lose it." He hurried after Julia and Hull. i.Tm looking around. "None for me," Julia murmured. She settled back in her chair, sighing. "I'm perfectly happy" "I'll take some." Bart pushed his cup toward tlie coffee dispenser. It filled the cup and returned it. "You've got a nice little place here, Hull." "Haven't you seen it before?" "I don't get up this way. I h,ven't been in Canada in years." "Let's hear your theory," Julia niunnured. "Go jJiead," Bart said. "We're waiting." Hull was silent for a moment. He gazed moodily across the table, past the dishes, at the thing sitting on the window ledge. Bart's Contest entry, his Worlclcraft bubble. "'Own Your Own World'," Hull quoted ironically. "Quite a slogan." "Packman thought it up himself," Bart said. "When he was young. Almost a century ago." "That long?" "Packman takes treatments. A man in hLs position can afford them." "Of course." Hull got slowly to his feet. He crossed the room and returned with the bubble. "Mind?" he asked Bart. "Go ahead." Hull adjusted the controls mounted on the bubble's surface. The interior scene flickered into focus. A miniature planet, revolving slowly. A liny blue-white sun. He increased the magnification, bringing the planet up in size. "Not bad," Hull admitted presently. "Primitive. Late Jurassic. I don't have the knack. I can't seem to get them into the mammal stage. TTiis is my sixteenth tr)'. I never can get any farther than this." The scene was a dense jungle, steaming with fetid rot. Great shapes stirred fitfully among the decaying ferns and marshes. Coiled, gleaming, reptilian bodies, smoking shapes ruing up from the thick mud -- "Turn it off," Julia murmured. "I've seen enough of them. We viewed hundreds for the Contest." "I didn't have a chance." Bart retrieved his bubble, snapping it off. "You have to do better than the Jurassic, to win. Competition is keen. Half the people there had their bubbles into the Eocene -- and at least ten into the Pliocene. Lora's entry wasn't much ahead. I counted several city-building civilizations. But hers was almost as advanced as we are." "Sixty years," Julia said. "She's been trying a long time. She's worked hard. One of those to whom it's not a game but a real passion. A way of life." "And then site smashes it," Hull said thoughtfully. "Smashes the bubble to bits. A world she's been w'orking on for years. Guiding it through period after period. Higher and higher. Smashes it into a million pieces." "Why?" Julia asked. "Why, Nat? ly do they do it? They get so far. building it up -- and then they tear it all down again." Hull leaned back in his chair. "It began," he stated, "when we failed to find life on any of the other planets.' When our exploring parties came back empty-handed. Eight dead orbs -- lifeless. Good for nothing. Not even lichen. Rock and sand. Endless deserts. One after the other, all the way out to Pluto." "It was a hard realization," Bart said. "Of course, that was before our time." "Not much before. Packman remembers it. A century ago. We waited a long time for rocket travel, flight to other planets. And then to find nothing..." "Like Columbus finding the world really was flat," Julia said. "With an edge and a void." "Worse. Columbus was looking for a short route to China. They could have continued the long way. But when we explored the system and found nothing we were in for trouble. People had counted on new worlds, new lands in the sky. Colonization. Contact with a variety of races. Trade. Minerals and cultural products to exchange. But most of all the thrill of landing on planets with amazing life-forms." "And instead of that... "Nothing but dead rock and wa.ste. Nothing that could .support life -- our own or any other kind. A vast disappointment set in on all levels of society." "And then Packman brought out the Worldcraft bubble," Bart murmured. " 'Own Your Own World'. There was no place to go, outside of Terra. No other worlds to visit. You couldn't leave here and go to anotlier world. So instead, you -- " "Instead you stayed home and put together your own world." Hull smiled wryly. "You know, he has a child's version out, now. A sort of preparation kit. So the child can cover the basic problems of world building before he even has a bubble." "But look. Nat," Bart said. "The bubbles seemed like a good idea, at first. We couldn't leave Terra so we built our own worlds right here. Sub-atomic worlds, in controlled containers. We start life going on a sub-atomic world, feed it problems to make it evolve, try to raise it higher and higher. In theory there's nothing wrong with the idea. It's certainly a creative pastime. Not a merely passive viewing like television. In fact, world-building is the ultimate art form. It takes the place of ail entertainments, all the passive sports as well as music and painting -- " "But something went wrong." "Not at first," Bart objected. "At first it was creative. Everybody bought a Worldcraft bubble and built his own world. Evolved life farther and farther. Molded life. Controlled it. Competed with others to see who could achieve the most advanced world." "And it solved another problem," Julia added. "The problem of leisure. With robots to work for us and robants to serve us and take care of our needs -- " "Yes, that was a problem," Hull admitted. "Too much leisure. Notliing to do. That, and the disappointment of finding our planet the only habitable planet in the system. "Packman's bubbles seemed to solve both problems. But something went wrong. A change came. I noticed it right away." Hull stubbed out his cigarette and lit another. "The change began ten years ago -- and it's been growing worse." manded. "Explain to me why everyone stopped building their worlds creatively and began to destroy." "Ever seen a child pull wings off a fly?" "Certainly. But -- " "The same tiling. Sadism? No, not exactly. More a sort of curiosity. Power. Why does a child break things? Power, again. We must never forget something. These world bubbles are substitutes. They take the place of sometliing else, of finding genuine life on our own planets. And they're just too damn small to do that. "These worlds are like toy boats in a bath tub. Or model rocketships you see kids playing with. They're surrogates, not the actual thing. These people who operate them -- why do they want them? Because they can't explore real planets, big planets. They have a lot of energy dammed up inside them. Energy they can't express. "And bottlcd-up energy sours. It becomes aggressive. People work with tlieir little worlds for a time, building them up. But finally they reach a point where their latent hostility, their sense of being deprived, their -- " "It can be explained more easily," Bart said calmly. "Your theory is too elaborate." "Plow do you explain it?" "Man's innate destructive tendencies. Plis natural desire to kill and spread ruin." "There's no such thing," PIull said flatly. "Man isn't an ant. He has no fixed direction to his drives. He has no instinctive 'desire to destroy any more than he has an instinctive desire to carve ivory letteropeners. He has energy -- and the outlet it takes depends on the opportunities available. "That's what's wrong. All of us have energy, the desire to move, act, do. But we're bottled up here, sealed off, on one planet. So we buv Worldcraft bubbles and make little worlds of our own. But microscopic worlds aren't enough.' They're as satisfactory as a toy sailboat is to a man who wants to go sailing." Bart considered a long lime, deep in thought. "You may be right," he admitted finally. "It sounds reasonable. But what's your suggestion? If the other eight planets arc dead -- " "Keep exploring. Beyond the system." "We're doing that." "Try to find outlets that aren't so artificial." Bart grinned. "You feel this way because you never caught the hang of it." He thumped his bubble fcKidly. "I don't find it artificial." "But most people do," Julia put in. "Most people aren't satisfied. That's why w'e left the Contest Party." Bart giuntcd. "It's turning sour, all right. Quite a scene, wasn't it?" He reflected, frowning. "But the bubbles are better than nothing. What do you sugge.st? Give up our bubbles? What sliould we do instead? Just sit around and talk?" "Nat loves to talk," Julia murmured. "Like all intellectuals." Bart tapped Hull's sleeve. "When you sit in your seat in the Directorate you're with the Intellectual and Professional class -- gray stripe." "And you?" "Blue stripe. Industrial. You know that." Hull nodded. "That's right You're with Terran Spaceways. The ever-hopeful company." "So you want us to give up our bubbles and just sit around. Quite a solution to the problem." "You're going to have to give them up." Hull's face flushed. "What you do after that is your afTair." "What do you mean?" Hull turned toward Longstreet, eyes blazing. "I've introduced a bill in the Directorate. A bill that will outlaw Worldcraft." Bart's mouth fell open. "You what?" "On what grounds?" Julia asked, waking up. "On moral grounds," Hull stated calmly. "And I think I can get it through." buzzed with murmuring echoes, its vast reaches alive with moving shadows, men taking their places and preparing for the session's business. Eldon von Stern, Directorate Floor Leader, stood with Hull off to one side behind the platform. "Let's get this straight," von Stem said nervously, running his fingers through his iron-gray hair. "You intend to speak for this bill of yours? You want to defend it yourself?" Hull nodded. "That's right. Why not?" "The analytical machines can break the bill down and present an impartial report for the members. Spellbinding has geme out of style. If you present an emotional harangue you can be certain of losing. The members won't -- " "m take the chance. It's too important to leave to the machines." Hull gazed out over the immense room that was slowly quieting. Representatives from all over the world were in their places. Whiteclad property owners. Blue-clad flnandal and industrial magnates. The red shirts of leaders from factory cooperatives and communal farms. The green-clad men and women representing the middleclass consumer group. His own gray-striped body, at the extreme right, the doctors, lawyers, scientists, educators, intellectuals and professionals of all kinds. "I'll take the chance," Hull repeated. "I want to see the bill passed. It's time the issues were made clear." Von Stem shrugged. "Suit yourself." He eyed Hull curiously. "What do you have against Worldcraft? It's too powerful a combine to buck. Packman himself is here, someplace. I'm surprised you -- " The robot chair flashed a signal. Von Stem moved away from Hull, up onto the platform. "Are you sure you want to speak for the bill?" Julia said, standing beside Hull in the shadows. "Maybe he's right. Let the machines analyze the bill." Hull was gazing out across the sea of faces, trying to locate Packman. The owner of Worldcraft was sitting out there. Forrest Packman, in his immaculate white shirt, like an ancient, withered angel. Packman preferred to sit with the property group, considering Worldcraft real estate instead of industry. Property still had the edge on prestige. Von Stem touched Hull's arm. "All right. Take the chair and explain your proposal." Hull stepped out onto the platform and seated himself in the big iflarble chair. The endless rows of faces before him were carefully devoid of expression. "You've read the terms of the proposal I'm speaking for," Hull began, his voice magnified by the speakers on each member's desk. "I propose we should declare Worldcraft Industries a public menace and the real property the possession of the State. I can state my grounds in a few sentences. "The theory and construction of. the Worldcraft product, the subatomic universe system, is knowm to you. An infinite number of subatomic worlds exist, microscupic counterparts of our own spatial coordinate. Worldcraft developed, almost a century ago, a method of controlling to thirty decimals tlie forces and stresses involved on these micro-coordinate planes, and a fairly simplified machine which could be manipulated by any adult person. "These machines for controlling specific areas of sub-atomic coordinates have been manufactured and sold to the general public with the slogan: 'Own Your Own World'. The idea is that the owner of the machine becomes literally a world owner, since the machine controls forces that govern a sub-atomic univ'erse that is directly analogous to our own. "By purchasing one of these Worldcraft machines, or bubbles, the person finds himself in possession of a virtual universe, to do with as he sees fit. Instruction manuals supplied by the Companyshow him how to control these minute worlds so that life forms appear and rapidly evolve, giving rise to higher and higher forms until at last -- assuming the owner is sufficiently skilful -- he has in his personal possession a civilization of beings on a cultural par with our own. "During the last few years we have seen the sale of these machines grow until now almost everyone possesses one or more sub-atomic worlds, complete with civilizations. And these years have also seen many of us take our private universes and grind the inhabitants and planets into dust. "There is no law which prevents us from building up elaborate civilizations, evolved at an incredible rate of speed, and then crushing them out of existence. That b why my proposal has been presented. These minute civilizations are not dreams. They are real. They actually exist. TTie microscopic inhabitants are -- " A restless stir moved through the vast hall. There were murmurs and coughs. Some members had switched off their speakers. Hull hesitated. A chill touched him. The faces below were blcuik, cold, uninterested. He continued rapidly. "The inhabitants are, at present, subject to the slightest whim their owner may feel. If we wish to reach down and crush their world, turn on tidal waves, earthquakes, tornados, fire, volcanic action -- if we wish to destroy them utterly, diere is nothing they can do. "Our position in relation to these minute civilwations is godlike. We can, with a wave of the hand, obsend the lightning down, level their cities, squash their tiny buildings like ant hills. We can toss them about like toys, playthings, victlm.s of our every whim." Hull stopped, rigid with apprehension. Some of the members had risen and strolled out. Von Stem's face ttisted with ironic amusement. Hull continued lamely. "I want to see Worldcrafi bubbles outlawed. We owe it to these civilizations on humanitarian grounds, on moral groimds -- " He went on, fimsliing as best he could. When he got to his feet there was a faint ripple of applame from the gray-striped professional group. But the white-clad property owners were utterly silent. And the blue industrialists. The red sltiris and the green-clad consumer representatives were silent, impassive, even a little amused. Hull returned to the wings, cold with the stark realization of defeat. "We've lost," he muttered, dazed. "I don't understand." Julia took hi-s arm. "Maybe an appeal on some other grounds... Maybe the machines can still -- " Bart Longstreet came out of the shadows. "No good, Nat. Won't work." Hull nodded. "I know." "You can't moralize Worldcraft away. That's not the solution." Von Stem had given the signal. The members began to cast their votes, the tabulation machines whirring to life. Hull stood staring silently out at the murmuring room, crushed and bewildered. Suddenly a shape appeared in front of him, cutting ofT his view. Impatiently he moved to one side -- but a rasping voice stopped him. "Too bad, Mr. Hull. Better luck next time." Hull stifTened. "Packman!" he muttered. "What do you want?" Forrest Packman came out of the shadows, moving toward him slowly, feeling his way blindly along. B art longstreet stared at the old man with unconcealed hostility. 'T'll see you Liter, Nat." He turned abruptly and Started off. Julia stopped him. "Bart, do you have to -- " "Important business. I'll be back later." He moved off down tlie aisle, toward the industrial section of Uie hall. Hull faced Packman. lie had never seen the old man so close before. He studied him as he advanced slowly, feeling his way along on the arm of his robant. Forrest Packman was old -- a hundred and seven years. Presewed by hormones and blood transfusions, elaborate washing and rejuvenating processes tliat maintained life in his ancient, withered body. His eyes, deep-sunk, peered up at Hull as he catne near, slirunken hands clutching the arm of his robant, breatli coming hoarse and dry. "Hull? You don't mind if I chat with you as the voting goes on? I W'on't be long." He peered blindly past Hull. "Who left? I couldn't see -- ' "Bart Longstreet. Spaceways." "Ohj yes. I know him. Your speech was quite interesting, Hull. It reminded me of the old days. Tlese people don't remember how it was. Times have changed." He stopped, letting the robant wipe his mouth and chin. "I used to be interested in rhetoric. Some of the old masters..." The old man rambled on. Hull studied him curiously. Was this frail withered old man really the power behind Worldcraft? It didn't seem possible. "Bryan," Packman whispered, nings Bryan. I never heard hiin, of course. But they say he was the greatest. Your speech wasn't bad. But you don't understand. I listened carefully. You have some good ideas. But what you're tr'ing to do is absurd. You don't know enough about people. Nobody's' really interested in -- " He broke off, coughing feebly, his robant gripping him with metal supports. Hull pushed impatiently past. "The voting is almost finished. I want to hear. If you have anything to say to me you can file a regular memo plate." Packman's robant stepped out, barring his way. Packman went on slowly, shakily. "Nobody is really interested in such appeals, Hull. You made a good speech but you don't have the idea. Not yet, at least. But you talk well, better than Fve heard for a long time. These young fellow, faces all washed, running around like office boys -- " Hull strained, listening to the vote. The impassive robant body cut off his view, but over Packman's dry rasp he could hear the results. Von Stern had risen and was reading the totals, group by group. "Four hundred against, thirtyfive in favor," von Stem stated.' "The proposal has been defeated." He tossed the tabulation cards down and picked up his agenda. "We'l! continue with the next business." Behind Hull, Packman broke off suddenly, his skull-like head cocked on one side. His deep-sunk eyes glittered and the trace of a smile twitched across his lips. "Defeated? Not even all the grays voted for you, Hull. Now maybe you'll listen to what I have to say." Hull turned away from the hall. The robant lowered its arm. "It's over," Hull said. "Come on." Julia moved uneasily away from Packman. "Let's get out of here." "You see," Packman continued relentlessly, "you have potentials that could be developed into something. When I was your age I had tlie sajne idea you have. I thought if people could see the moral issues involved, they w'ould respond. But people aren't like that. You have to be realistic, if you want to get somewhere. People... Hull scarcely heard the dry, raspy voice whispering away. Defeat. Worldcraft, the world bubbles, would continue. The Contest Parties: bored, restless men and women with too much time, drinking and dancing, comparing worlds, building up to the climax -- then the orgy of breaking and smashing. Over and over. Endlessly. "Nobody can buck Worldcraft," Julia said. "It's too big. We'll have to accept the bubbles as a part of our lives. As Bart says, unless we have .something else to offer in their place... Bart Longstreet came rapidly out of the shadows. "You still here?" he said to Packman. "I lost," Hull said. "The vote -- " "I know. I heard it. But it doesn't matter." Longstreet pushed past Packman and his robant. "Stay here. I'll join you in a second. I have to see von Stem." Something in Longstreet's voice made Hull look up sharply. "What is it? What's happened?" "Why doesn't it matter?" Julia demanded. Longstreet stepped up on the platform and made his way to von Stern. He handed him a message plate and then retired to the shadows. Von Stem glanced at the plate -- And stopped talking. He got to his feet slowly, the plate gripped tightly. "I have an announcement to make." Von Stern's voice was shaking, almost inaudible. "A dispatch from Spaceways' check station on Proxima Centauri." An excited murmur rushed through the hall. "Exploring ships in the Proxima system have contacted trading scouts from an extra-galactic civilization. An exchange of messages has already occurred. Spaceways ships are moving toward the Arcturan system with the expectation of finding -- " Shouts, a bedlam of sound. Men and women on their feet, screaming in wild joy. Von Stern stopped reading and stood, his arms folded, his gray face calm, waiting for them to quiet. Forrest Packman stood immoving, his withered hands pressed together, his eyes shut. His robant sent support braces around him, catching him in a shield of protecting metal. "Well?" Longstreet shouted, pushing back to them. He glanced Hi the frail, withered figure held up by the robant's supports, then at Hull and Julia. "What do you say, Hull? Let's get out of here -- so we can celebrate." 'LL fly you home," Hull said M to Julia. He looked around for an inter-continental cruiser. "Too bad you live so far away. Hong Kong is so damn out of the way." Julia caught his arm. "You can drive me yourself. Remember? The Pacific Tube is open. We're connected with Asia, now." "That's right." Hull opened the door of his surface car and Julia slid in. Hull got behind the wheel and slammed the door. "I forgot, with all these other things on my mind. Maybe we can see each other more often. I wouldn't mind spending a few days vacation in Hong Kong. Maybe you'll invite me." He sent the car out into traffic, moving with the remote-controlled beam. "Tell me more," Julia asked. "I want to know all Bart said." "Not much more. They've known for some time that something was up. That's why he wasn't too worried about Worldcraft. He knew the bottom would fall out as soon as the announcement was made." "Why didn't he tell you?" Hull grinned wryly. "How could he? Suppose the first reports were wrong? He wanted to wait until tley were sure. He knew what the results would be" Hull gestured. "Look." On both sides of the strip a tide of men and women poured out of buildings, up from the underground factories, a seething mass confusion, shouting and cheering, throwing things in the air, tossing paper out of windows, carrying each other on their shoulders. "They're working it off," Hull said. "The way it should be. Bart says Arcturus is supposed to have seven or eight fertile planets, some of them inhabited, some just forests and oceans. The extra-galactic traders say that most systems have at least one usable planet. They visited our system a long time ago. Our early ancestors may have traded with them." "Then there's plenty of life in the galaxy?" Hull laughed. "If what they say is true. And the fact that they exist is proof enough." "No more Worldcraft." "No." Hull shook his head. No more Worldcraft. Stock was already being dumped. Worthless. Probably the State w'ould absorb the bubbles already in existence and seal them off, leaving the inhabitants free to determine their own futures. The neurotic smashing of laboriously achieved cultures was a thing of the past. The buildings of living creatures would no longer be pushed over to amuse some god suffering from ennui and frustration. Julia sighed, leaning against Hull. "Now we can take it easy. Sure, you're invited to stay. We can take out permanent cohabitation papers if you want to -- " Hull leaned forward suddenly, his body rigid. "Where's the Tube?" he demanded. "The strip should be hitting it any minute." Julia peered ahead, frowning. "Something's wrong, Slow down." Hull slowed the car. An obstruction signal was flashing ahead. Gars were stopping on all sides, shifting into emergency retard lanes. He ground the car to a halt. Rocket cruisers were sweeping overhead, exhaust tubes shattering the evening silence. A dozen uniformed men ran across a field, directing a rumbling robot derrick. "What the hell -- " Hull muttered. A soldier stepped up to the car, swinging a communication flare. "Turn around. We need the whole strip." "But -- " "What happened?" Julia asked. "The Tube. Earthquake, someplace half way out. Broke the Tube in ten sections." The soldier hur ried off. Construction robots rushed past in a hand cart, assembling equipment as they went. Julia and' Hull stared at each other wide-eyed. "Good Lord," Hull muttered. "Ten places. And the Tube must have been full of cars." (Continued on page #) The climate was perfect, the sky was always blue, and -- best of all -- nobody had to work. What more could anyone want? Planet of Dreams By James McKimmcy, Jr. Ulustroted by Poul Orbon spinning globe, placed in the universe to weather and age by itself until the end of things. But because its air was good and its earth was fertile, Daniel Loveral had placed a finger upon a map and said, "This is tlie planet. This is the Dream Planet." That was two years before, back on Earth. And now Loveral with his selected flock had shot through space, to light like chuckling geese upon the planet, to feel the effect of their dreams come true. Loveral was sitting in his office, drumming his long fingers against his desk while the name, Atkinson, ticked through his brain like the sound of a sewing machine. Would he be the only one, Loveral asked himself, or was he just the first? In either case, it was up to Loveral, as leader and guiding hand, to stop this thing and stop it quickly. Loverd stood up and put on his jacket, although there was no need for it, other an the formality it gave his figure. He stepped out oi his office into a clear bright day, where the air was clean and fresh in his lungs, at once like frost and fire and sweet perfume. He walked along a winding path, which was bordered by slim-necked flowers and a short hedge whose even clipped lines were kept neat by tireless robot hands. Trees pointed to a blue sky, rocking and fluttering their leaves in a soft breeze, and glinting metallic houses lay peacefully beyond in wooded hollows and upon slight hills. A whole small world was before his eyes, set there upon his direction, maintained by himself with the help of a dozen complex machines which lay locked and sealed in the Maintenance Room for only his fingers to touch. It was a busy life for Loveral, up at dawn to work until deep night, keeping his flock happy and free a perfect plan, one which had been tested and turned in his mind for years. If he had to work hard to keep it running smoothly, that was all right. In fact, he had never been happier. Now, however, there was this business about Atkinson. Loveral was disturbed about that. He walked on, over the quiet path which would lead to the house where Atkmson and his wife lived. Loveral smiled, in readiness for any happy face that might appear before him, to greet him, to show with thanWul eyes appreciation for his wonderful world. But that, too, brought thoughts that were a bit disturbing. Lately there had been few such faces. Most of his flock no longer seemed to care about walking along the cultivated paths, or smiling, or nodding, or touching a leaf here or a flower there. They preferred, it appeared, to remain deep inside their houses, as though they might have become tired of the soft perfection of Dream Planet. As though they might have become weary of quiet woods and sweet bird-music or a sky which was always blue. Loveral shook his head as he walked, puzzling out his thoughts. It was strange, but nothing to worry about certainly. Just this business about Atkinson. That was his only worry. He came slowly up a hill, the top of which held a low curving house, with a silver roof and wide, sweeping windows. There were yellow and blue and deep red flowers, skirting the sides of the house, and green ivy grew thickly between the glistening windows. The lawn, dotted with small leafy trees and round bushes, sloped down from the front of the house, looking like a carefully arranged painting. Loveral pressed a button beside a shining door and waited, smiling tlirough his pale blue kindly eyes. after several moments and stood blinking at him. She was a thin woman, who seemed to have gotten even thinner, Loveral noticed. She was working her fingers at the neck of her dress. She smiled but her lips wavered. "My dear," Loveral greeted her in his soft voice, showing the goodness in his eyes. She nodded her recognition, opening her mouth wiUiout speaking. "May I?" said Loveral finally, waving his long fingers toward the living room. "Oh, yes," said the woman. "Of course, Mr. Loveral." And as she spoke Loveral had the impression she might suddenly begin crying. Loveral followed the woman into the house, noticing all over again the precise way everything had been arranged. The rug was soft beneath his feet, and the light came in through the windows in such a way that it, too, became soft. The furniture, molded to hold a human body most comfortably, rested about the room in perfect efficiency. "'our place is so lovely," Loveral said, out of his old habit from Earth. But his words seemed to ring strangely in the quiet, because it was his own arrangement, like all the other rooms on the planet. And Mrs. Atkinson, standing thin and nervous before him, had nothing, after all, to do with it. The cleanliness was the vork of his robot machines, the planning his own. It was like complimenting himself. He cleared his throat and stood, smiling his most benevolent smile to reassure Mrs. Atkinson. "Ah, my dear. Is George about?" Again, the woman's hand skittered to her throat. "He's not ill, surely?" Loveral asked, although this, too, was silly, because foods, selected and pre pared for utmost nutrition, packed and frozen to be doled out in weekly quantities, purified air, diseaseers on exercise, and of course Loveral's own philosophies of quiet, peaceful living -- all of this guarded well the health of Dream Planet's flock. The woman shook her head. "No, George is fine. He's just -- sleeping, I think." "Rest is nature's finest tonic," said Loveral, and hearing his voice thought suddenly there was hardly anything he could say any more that might not sound a bit out of place in this peaceful world. Rest to the man who had nothing to do ceased to be a tonic. "Yes, yes," said Loveral. "May we just sit down, my dear?" Mrs. Atkinson jerked a hand tc ward one of the chairs and then wound her fingers. Loveral sat down and leaned back, smiling his most charming smile. "Perhaps George might awaken after a bit?" "Oh, yes," the woman said, her eyes flickering, and she sat upon the edge of one chair, like a bird perched upxn a thin wire. Loveral waited, legs crossed, leaning his head back against the silken softness of the chair. It was so good to relax these days. The business of w'atching and of caring for his flock was trying. When you have brought an entire community of people at great expense through space, guaranteeing to give them a life of constant comfort and ease, so that they might dream and think as they wander through the flowers and the leaves, their thoughts cleansed of worry about work and responsibility, then you have a job. Loveral was most busy, busier than his heritage of wealth ever before had allow, seeing to all of this. But he also was most cemtent -- with everything except Atkinson. Mrs. Atkinson teetered on the edge of her chair, as though she might at any moment go flying across the room in a crazy gyration. There was something about her eyes, Loveral noticed, while he peacefully nodded in the chair. Fear, perhaps. If so, he probably had been right. He tightened himself, listening. There it was again. The sound. Just as he had heard it a day before w'hen he had passed near the house. He leaned forward quickly. Mrs. Atkinson jumped. Loveral smiled. "Didn't I hear a noise of some sort, my dear?" "Noise?" the wwnan said, as though her own voice were the sound of an echo. "An odd noise," Loveral said, his eyes searching. The woman's hands fluttered about her dress. Loveral stood up. "Would you mind if I just glanced about, my dear?" The woman didn't answer, but Loveral was already moving across the room toward a door. He opened it and walked down a hall. The noise grew stronger. He threw open another door. H e stood Watching while George Atkinson spun around, dark eyes flashing, hair tousled. There was a two days' growth of beard darkening Atkinson's face. "Why, George," Loveral said, swiftly examining tlie litter of metal and wood which was spread over a table behind Atkinson. There was a home-made hammer in Atkinson's hand. "What have we here, George?" "Something for you," Atkison said, tightening his fingers about the handle of me hammer. Loveral grinned his famous Loveral grin. "That's fine. What could it be?" "None of your damned business." 'George' Loveral said, his smile still white but his eyes narrow and quick. The woman was behind them. Her voice screeched. "George, I told you. Why didn't you listen, George? You should have listened ta me. You -- " Loveral held up a hand, still watching Atkinson. "Now tell me, George, what is it you're making for me?" Atkinson raised the hammer slightly. Loveral stood very' still. "That's a nice hammer, George." Atkinson's eyes were black beneath his thick brows. "You made that, didn't you?" Loveral asked. "Yes, I made that," Atkinson said. "I made that and I made something else. Another minute and ril have that finished, too." "George," said Loveral, stepping quietly forward, "I don't like to say this, of course. You've been one of our very best menibcrs. But nobody works here, George. We can't allow that. You know the rules." "I know the rules, all right." "Well, then," Loveral said, extending his hand toward the hammer, "we'll just destroy this and whatever else you might have been making. W'e'll just forget it ever happened. We'll get along real fine that way, George. We'll just be such good friends." "We'll just go to hell," said Atkinson, snatching his hammer away. Loveral's smile disappeared. "I'll tell you, George. I have to mean business with this. You know the reasons. If w'e allow anybody to work here, then there's going to be trouble. That isn't our plan. We're here to grow within ourselves and expand culturally. Not to commerciali#e a beautiful world like Dream Planet." Atkinson stood unmoving, and Loveral could see the way the man's muscles were tight, like steel springs, and the way his eyes burned deep inside their blackness. "VVeVe given you everything you need," Loveral explained, trying to adjust the smile on his lips again. "Everybody has everything they want. But, you see, if you sit there and work and make something that someone else doesn't have, then the whole system is destroyed. Then someone will want what you've made. We'll have jealousy and hatred and fighting. This is the stuff of which wars are made, George. You know that. It starts with small things like this, but it grows. When it does, the structure of our life here will collapse. You wouldn't want that, would you, George?" "YesI" Atkinson said, his mouth white at the edges. "I'd like to see the whole rotten thing collapsed and blown to hell!" Loveral's teeth snapped together and his lips grew tight. He could feel a muscle jumping along his neck. Atkinson looked at him with furious eyes. "What do you think it's like, living this way? You're busy working twenty-four hours a day, while we wander around this damned prison like the breathing dead. You can feel sweat and aches in your bones from a hard day's work. Sleep is like medicine to you, instead of another stretch of torture. You can forget your own brain for a while by doing something with your hands. You can relax because you can get tired. Not us, by God. Not us!" "I envy you, George," Loveral said through his teeth. "Oh, like hell you do. You treat us like we were helpless infants. You feed and clothe us and do all our work, and you're so happy you damned near split your guts." "I'll take that, if you don't mind," Loveral said, reaching for the hammer, his voice suddenly icy cold. Atkinson slammed back against the table. "No you won't. You won'f take anything more at all. You've taken our spirit and our pride and the strength right out of our spines. You won't take anything more!" "George?" Loveral said, but not moving any further. Atkinson slid the hammer back of him onto the table, and his hands were .searching among a dozen scattered pieces of metal and wood. He watched Loveral as he worked. "Let me show you what else I've made," he said. "I'd hate to do it," Loveral said, "but I can stop your food, your water, everything." Atkinson's hands moved swiftly, assembling the pieces. He nodded. "You can, but you won't." "I have the only keys to the storage units. I control everything, George." "Correction," said Atkinson, holding an assembled revolver in his hands. "You did," kinson had in his hands. He blinked. "You're nearly dead," Atkinson said. Loveral looked at Atkinson, into his eyes. "If you wanted to kill me, you could have done it some other way." Atkinson shook his head. "Just this way. Just with something that took me dozens of days and nights to make. With something that made me sweat and swear to get. It was difficult -- with no tools or proper materials -- but that made it all the better. Now' I've got it finished," he said, pushing a bullet into the chamber, "and ready to use." Loveral stood frozen, then he turned. "My dear," he said to the woman who moved her mouth as though her voire had been pumped out of her. He reached to touch her shoulder. She recoiled, as though his fingers held poison. "George," he .wid, turning hack to the black-eyed man. "This is a great moment," Atkinson said, lifting the muzzle of the revolver. "When I squeeze the trigger, it'll be like blowing the lock off a prison door. I'll go yelling to the others, and we'll smasli down the whole goddamned place. We'll smash it down, so we'll have to rebuild it. We'll pull apart every robot you've got. We'll tear apart the fo lockers and have a celebration for a wreck, and when we've gotten sick from too much food, we'll start growing some more with our own hands. We'll make forges for the men and looms for the women. We'U bum our clothes and make new ones. We'll grow com in the fields. We'll pump water from the ground. You're finished, Loveral." Loveral stared at the revolver. "George," he said, pleading. "The plans. The beautiful, beautiful plans. All of you, you all wanted peace and contentment. Time to think and dream. You all wanted to get away from the work and the worry and the responsibility. You -- " Atkinson fired the gun into Loveral's stomach. Loveral gestured at the air and fell to liis knees. Atkinson threw his gun through a window and grabbed his wife by the hand. "Hurrs'I" he said, laughing. "Hurry!" Loveral felt of the blood on his shirt and rested on his knees. He could hear footsteps, racing through the house and out to the yard. He held out his bloody hand and looked at it. Atkinson's voice pealed tlirough the wann clear air. "He's dead! Lovcral's dead!" There wa.s a sound of sudden activity, and everywhere went the cry. "Lovcral's dead!" Loveral sank to his haunches and opened his lips. The blood was there, too. He could hear the shouts and the laughter, and then the tearing of steel, the smashing of glass. He bent over his knees, trembling with a sudden chill. The sound of destruction grew like thunder. "Why?" he said in his dying throat. "Oh, w'hv? It was what they said  # they wanted?" Personalities in Science A Bell Rang # Feet Away, and Wireless Was Born bom, a servant in his parents' home in Bologna exclaimed, "What big ears he has!" His moAer answered, with an almost unbelievably prophetic pride, "With such ears he vl be able to hear the still small voice of the air." Marconi's father was a prosperous business man ; his mother, Anna Jameson, was the daughter of a well-known Dublin distiller's family. She was a staunch Scotch-Irisb Protestant and an exceedingly fine musician; she taught young Guglielmo to be an accomplished pianist, a student of the Bible, and to be both tenacious and persevering. Marconi was absorb in science by the time he was twelve. The only thing that seemed able to tear him way from his experiments was his fondness for an old blind man, and this one small leisure was explained when his parents discovered that the old man was a former telegrapher and was teaching young Gugliclmo Morse code. At twenty he read an obituary of the German Heinrich Hertz which described Hertz's experiments with electro-magnetic waves and became possessed with the idea that CugUelmo Marconi signals could be transmitted through the air without wires, just a.s Hertz had transmitted the spark. His fint experiment with the idea succeeded that same year. After months of heartbreaking failure he pressed a switch one night -- and a bell rang in a room # feet away. This first success was followed by others with distances constantly increasing. But when Marconi oflfered the Indian government the invention, it was decided after a brief discussion that the machine was not worthy of attention and bis offer was reused. His mother encouraged him to try her country, and in # he arrived in London with tw'o trunks full of instruments. The instruments had suffered mightily at the hands of the customs inspectors, and Marconi's first heartbreaking task was to replace them. Fortu nately, tlie British Government realized that he had a revolutionary invention which might one day make it possible to communicate with sliip.s at sea. Less than one year later a corporation was formed to exploit wireless telegraphy, and the first sending station was built on the Isle of Wight. And this young inventor of twenty-three found himself an immensely wealthy man. Despite occasional fiascos, the success of wireless received worldwide publicity; stations were built on the Continent and in England, and wireless equipment was installed in all British and Italian ships. But Marconi was not content; his dream was to unite Europe and America Iiy wireless. He had been warned that the curvature of the Earth would interfere with the waves ; people scolded him for not being content with what he had already wTought, and the cost of cstablisliing the transoceanic stations was prohibitive in the face of possible failure -- yet he was determined to try. Faced with disaster at the very outset when the station at the Southwest tip of England was destroyed in a storm, Marconi stubbornly spent a year rebuilding it, and then proceeded to Newfoundland which had been chosen as the American point for die trans-Atlantic effort. Weather conditions and technical difficulties that were almost insurmountable battled against him, but in #I the first signal -- three clicks like the three dots of Morse code -- came through to the English station and Guglielmo Marconi's dream was a reality. received with large doses of scepticism, and to still forever the doubting voices Marconi decided to build a regular station for permanent transmission at the site of the experimental station in Newfoundland. But more than scepticism had to be overcome. The cable company that owned the trans-Atkmtic cable threatened legal action if the wireless experiments didn't stop, and Marconi saw the dream fade. Canada, spurred by the faith of Motlier England in the experiments, offered # pounds and land in Nova Scotia for the American station. It took two long years of effort, disappointment and c.periment to complete the station -- and more heartbreak was in store for Marconi before success was achieved. Then the twenty-eightyear-old genius returned to Europe and a hero's iriuniph.s. Honors and titles were showered on him, and these served to spur him on to newer heights. After two years of unceasing work he decided to take a vacation, and typically chose one of the remote wireless stations as the perfect spot. Here at Pool he met ninetccn-year-old Beatrice O'Brien, and after a whirlwind courtship they were married. The honeymoon spot was, again characteristically, the station at Nova Scotia. While still on the honeymoon Marconi was recalled to London. The company's funds had run out and London banks refused new credit to further research and experiment. A frantic trip to Italy to seek further financing was fruitless; the-ltaliaji banks didn't tluiik he was a good risk either. Marconi's only hope seemed to lie in reorganizing the company himself. He was able to do it -- but it took everything that he had. Instead of better times, things just got blacker. His first son was stricken and died at three months; German and American cable companies were infringing on his patents, and the Glace Bay station which had cost so much in time, money, and effort was completely destroyed by fire. The indomitable spirit of perseverance and tenacity tliat was the mark of this man was scarcely dented by these disasters; instead they seemed to spur him on. He rolled up his sleeves and proceeded to fight the patent infringements with everything he could muster, began the rebuilding of the Glace Bay station, and did all in his power to convince the world tiiat wireless had commercial posabilitics. In less than a year the station had been rebuilt, the first lawsuit won, and Marconi was riding the crest of the wave again. The honor of receiving the Nobel Prize for physics in # merely interrupted the steamroller for a brief time. Having exploited all the possibilities of long radio waves, he started  work with short waves and by # had transmitted the human voice from England to Australia. Then came work with reflected radio waves which were to produce our present day radar, and experiments with ultra-short waves which were to be the key to television. Those who lived and worked with him admired his simplicity, patience, and warmheartedness; and perhaps the greatest tribute was paid to this self-taught man who had never been to a university by the London Times in an editorial written at the time of his death. "When the early twentieth century comes to be surveyed by historians yet unborn, Gugliclino Marconi may be regarded as the supremely significant character of the epoch, the name by which our age is called." -- epw who writes with unrivalled skill but much too rarely, returns with The Custodian. It's a tale of the last man on Earth -- but don't decide now that the theme is familiar: this man was in that position by choice! The long, lead novelette will be by Mari Wolf. Homo Inferior tells of a man who was alone in a different way, for I Eric was surrounded by his own people, but couldn't communicate with them! These and other fine stories in the November IF will thrill and surprise you. On sale everywhere September I I th. They were out of place in the Manly Age -- Stonecypher, a man who loved animals; Moe, a bull who hated men. T ogether, they marched to inevitably similar destinies... By Robert Ernest Gilbert lilustroted by Tom Beecham  reed sun hat with the square brim, and used a red handkerchief to absorb the perspiration streaking his forehead. He said, "The pup'll make a good guard, 'especially for thrill parties." L. Dan's golden curls flickered in July I sunlight. The puppy growled when Dan extended a gloved hand. "I don't want a guard," the hobbyist said. "I want him for a dogfight." A startling bellow rattled the windows of the dog house and spilled in deafening waves across the yard. Dan whirled, clutching his staff. Light glinted on his plastic cuirass and danced on his red nylon tights. His flabby face turned wWte. "What -- " he panted. Stonecypher concealed a smile behind a long corded hand and said, "Just the bull. Serenades is sometimes." Dan circled the dog house. Stonecypher followed with a forefinger pressed to thin lips. In the paddock, the bull's head moved up and down. It might or might not have been a nod. The crest of long red and blueblack hairs on the bull's neck and shoulders created an illusion of purple, but the rest of the animal matched the black of a duelmaster's tam. Behind large eyes encircled by a white band, his dtull bulged in a swelling dome, making the distance between his short horns seem much too great. "He's purple!" Dan gasped. "Why in the Government don't you put him in the ring?" Stonecypher gestured toward the choppy surface of Kings Lake, nine hundred feet below. He said, "Coincidence. I mate out the ringmaster's barge just leavin' Highland Pier." "You're selling him?" "Yeah. If they take 'im. I'd like to see 'im in the ring on Dependence Day." Glancing at tlic watch embedded in the left pectoral of his half-armor, Dan said, "That would be a show! I'll take the dog and fly. I've a duel in Highland Park at I I :#." "The pup's not for sale." "Not for sale!" Dan yelled. "You told -- " "Thought you w'anted a guard. I don't sell for dogfights." A sound like "Goood!" came from the paddocked bull. Dan opened his mouth wide. Whatever he intended to .say died witliout vocalization, for Catriona came driving the mule team up through the apple orchard. The almost identical mules had sorrel noses, gray necks, buckskin flanks, and black and white pinto backs and haunches. "Great Government!" Dan swore. "This place is worse than a museum!" "Appaloosa mules," Stonecypher said. Catriona jumped from the seat of the mowing machine. Dan stared. Compared to the standard woman of the Manly Age who, by dieting, posttiring, and exercise from childhood, transformed herself into a small, thin, dominated creature, Catriona constituted a separate species. She was taller than Dan, slightly plump, and her hair could have been classed as either red or blonde. Green overalls became her better than they did Stonecypher. With no trace of a smile on face or in voice, Stonecypher said, "L. Dan, meet Catriona." L ike a hypnopath's victim, Dan walked to Catriona. He looked up at her and whispered, but too loudly. Stonecypher heard. His hands clamped on the hobbyist's neck and jerked. Dan smashed in the grass with sufficient force to loosen the snaps of liis armor. He rolled to his feet and swung his staff. Stonecypher's left hand snatched the staff. His right fist collided with Dan'.s square jaw. Glaring down at the hobbyist, Stonecypher gripped the staff and rotated thick wrists outward. The tough plastic popped when it broke. Scuttling backward, Dan regained his feet. "You inhuman brute!" he growled. "I intended to pay for her!" "My wife's not for sale either," Stonecypher said. "You know how to fly." Dan thrust out a coated tongue and made a noise with it. In a memorized singsong, he declared, "I challenge you to a duel, in accordance with the laws of the Government, to be fought in the nearest duelpen at the earliest possible hour." "Stony, don't!" Catriona protested. "He's not wo'th it!" Stonecypher smiled at her. "Have to follow the law," he said. He extended his tongue, blurted, and announced, "As required by the Government, I accept your challenge." "We'll record it!" Dan snapped. He stalked toward the green and gold butterfUer parked in a field of seedling Sudan grass. Homs rattled on the concrete rails of the paddock. "Burstaard!" the bull bellowed. Dan shied and trampled young grass under sandaled feet. His loosened cuirass clattered rhythmically. Raising the canopy of the butterilier, he slid out the radioak and started typing. Stonecypher and Catriona approached the hobbyist. Catriona said, "This is cowa'dly! Stony nevah fought a duel in his life. He won't have a chance!" "You'll see me soon then, woman. Where'd you get all that equipment? You look like something in a circus." "Ah used to be in a cahnival," Catriona said. She kept Stonecypher in place with a plump arm across his chest. "That's wheah you belong," she told Dan. "That's all you'ah good fo'." "Watch how you address a man, woman," Dan snarled, "or you'll end in the duelpen, too." Stonecypher snatched the sheet from the typer. The request read : Duelmaster R. Smith, Watauga Duelpen, Highland Park, Tennessee. L. Dan challenges M. Stonecypher. Cause: Interference with basic amatory rights, July #. #:#I amest. Stonecypher said, "The cause is a lie. You got no rights with Catriona. Why didn't you tell 'em it's because I knocked you ears-overendways, and you're scared to fight without a gun?" Dan shoved the request into the slot and pulled the switch. "I'll kill you," he promised. While the request was transmitted by radiophotography, minutes passed, bare of further insults. Catriona and Stonecypher stood near the concrete fence enclosing the rolling top of Bays Mountain. Interminable labor had converted # acres of the top to arable land. Below the couple, the steep side of the mountain, denuded of timber, dangerously eroded, and scarred by limestone quarries, fell to the ragged shore of Kings Lake. Two miles of water agitated by many boats separated the shore and the peninsula, which resembled a wrinkled dragon with underslung lower jaw distended. The town of Highland Park clung to the jutting land, and the Highland Bullring appeared as a white dot more th four miles from where Catriona and Stonecypher stood. The ringmaster's barge was a red. rectangle skirting Russel Chapel Island. Dan pulled the answer from the buzzing radioak. He walked over and held the radiophoto an inch from Stonecypher's long nose. It read: Request OK. Time: July #. #:# pmest. Two attached permits granted each duelist the privilege of carrying one handgun with a capacity of not more than ten cartridges of not less than .# caliber. Below the permits appeared an additional message: L. Dan due at Watauga Duelpen. #:# amest. For duel with J. George . "Government and Taxes!" Dan cuRcd. Throwing Stonecyphcr's permit, he leaped into the green and gold butterflier and slammed the canopy. The four wings of the seini-ornithopter blurred with motion, lifting the craft into tlte sky. The forward wings locked wi negative dihedral, the rear wings angled to form a ruddevator, and the five-bladcd propeller whined, driving the butterflier in a shallow dive for the peninsula. late, and they shoot him. Ah knew youd finally have to fight, but -- " "You keep out of it next time," said Stonecypher. "I happen to know that feller's killed two women in the pen. He don't care for nothin'. Oughta known better than to let him come here. He made out like he wanted a guard dog, and I thought -- " "Nevah mind, Stony. Ah've got to help you. You nevah even fiahed a gun." "Later, Cat. The ringmaster may want to stay for dinner. I'll look after the mules." Catriona touched Stonecypher's cheek and went to the house. Stonecypher unharnessed the Appaloosa mules. While they rolled, he took, from an empty hay rack, a rubbertipped spear and a tattered cloth dummy. The dummy's single ann terminated in a red flag. Stonecypher concealed spear and dummy beneath the floor of the dog house. Going to the paddock, he patted the bull between the horns, which had been filed to a needle point. "Still goin' through with it?" Stonecypher asked. "Yaaaa," the bull lowed. "Yaooo kuhl Daan. Err'll kuhl uhhh kuhlerrs." "All right, Moe. Til kill Dan, and you kill the killers." Stonecypher stroked the jnassive hemisphere of the bull's jaw. "Goodbye, Moe." "Gooodba," the hull echoed. He lovered his nose to the shelled com seasoned with molasses, the rolled oats, and the ground barley in the trough. Stonecypher walked down the road to the staircase of stone that dammed the old Kingsport Reservoir, abandoned long before Kings Lake covered the city. A red electric truck crawled up the steep road hewn from the slope the gap formed by Dolan Branch. NN'hcn the truck had crossed the bridge below the buttressed dam, Slonecyyjher sjx)kc to the fat and sweltering man seated beside the driver. "I'm M. Stonecypher. Proud for you to visit my farm. Dinner's ready up at the hotise." "No, no time," smiled the fat man, displaying stainless .steel teeth. "Only time to sec the bull. I thought we weren't going to make that grade! Why don't those scientists develop synthetic elements, so that we can have atomic power again? This radio-electric i.s so unreliable! I am Ringmaster A. Oswell. naturally. This heat is excruciating! I had hoped it would be cooler up here, but something seems to have happened to our inland-oceanic climate this summer. Lead us to the bull, Stonecypher!" Clinging to the slatted truck bed, Stonecypher directed the stoic driver to paddock. The electric motor rattled and stopped, and Ringmaster Oswcll wheezed and squiitned from the cab. The ringmaster wore a vaguely Arabic costume, in ail variations of red. The bull lumbered bellowing around the fence. His horns raked white gashes in the beech tree forming one corner. He tossed the feed trough to splintering destruction. "Magnificent!" Oswcll gasped. Then the ringmaster frowned. "But he looks almost purple. His horns are rather short." "Stay back from the fence!" Stonecypher warned. "He's real wide between the horns, ringmaster. I reckon tlie spread'll match up to standard. Same stock my grandfather used to sell Boon Bullring before the water. Wouldn't sell 'ini, only the tenants are scared to come about the house." Oswell fingered his balloon neck and inumblecl, "But he's odd. That long hair on his neck... I don't know..." The bull's horns lifted the mineral feeder from the center of the paddock. The box rotated over the rails and crashed in a cloud of floured oyster shells and phosphate .salt at the ringmaster's feet. Oswell took cover behind the truck driver, who said, "Fergus'd like him. Jeeze! Remember dat brown and white spotted one he kilt last year on Forrest Day? Da crowd like ta never stopt yelling!" Ringmaster Oswell retreated farther, as, under the bull's onslaught, a piece of concrete broke from the top rail, exposing the reinforcing rod within. "Fergus does like strange ones," he admitted. Stonecypher said, "Don't let the mane bother you. There's one of these long-haired Scotch cows in his ancestors. He's not really purple. Just the way the light hits 'im." Oswell chew lacquered fingernails with .steel dentures. His bloodshot eyes studied the spotted and speckled .ppaloosa mules chasing around the pasture, but the sight failed to register on his brain. "The crowd likes a good show on Dependence Day," he proclaimed. "I considered trying a fat Aberdeen Angus with artificial horns for laughs, but this may do as well. I must find some sliade! I'll take him, Stonecypher, if fifteen hundred in gold is agreeal)le." "Sold," Stonecypher said. The word cracked in the middle. Vhile the ringmaster, muttering about trying bulldogs sometime, retired to the narrow shadow of the dog house, the driver backed the truck to the ramp. Stonecypher opened the gate and waved his handkerchief. The bull charged into the truck, and the driver locked the heavy doors. From within his red burnoose, Oswell produced a clinking bag. "Fifteen hundred," he said. From other recesses, he withdrew documents, notebook, and a pencil. He said. "Here is a pass for you and one for any woman-subject you may wish to bring. You'll want to see your first bull on Dependence Day! And here is the standard release absolving you of any damage the bull may do. Oh, yes! His name and number?" "Number?" "Yes, his brand." "Not branded. Make it Number #. Name's Moe." Oswell chuckled. "Moe. Very good! Most breeders name them things like Chainlightning and Thunderbird. Your GE number?" "I'm not a Government Employee." "You're not?" Oswell wheezed. "How unusual! Your colors? He'll wear your colors In his shoulder." "Yeah. Black." "Black?" "Dead black." Oswell, scribbling, managed a faint smile. "Sorry I can't accept that invitation to lunch." He struggled into the truck. "Hope this bull is brave in the ring. Nice antique old place you have here! I don't see a feed tower, but you surely don't use pasture -- " The ringmaster's babble passed down the road with the truck. Stonecypher watched the vehicle descend the dangerous grade. He lifted his square hat from his black hair, dropped it on the ground, and crushed the reeds under a booted foot. The temporary house, a squat cubical structure, stood at the end of a spruce-lined path beside the ruin that a thrill party had made of the century-old farm house. The plastic screen squeaked when Stonecypher opened it. He stood on the white floor of the robot kitchen and dug a fifty dollar gold piece from the bag Oswell had given him. Glaring at the head of the woman with Liberty inscribed on her crown, he muttered, "Thirty pieces of gold." Catriona called, "Oswell's lucky he couldn't stay foah diimah! Ah had the potassium cyanide all ready." Stonecypher passed through the diner door into a room containing more yellowed history books and agricultural pamphlets than eating utensils. Catriona waited by the table. She held a large revolver in her right hand. Knob, near the ruins of the old FM transmitter station, looking down at the Tennessee Lakes. Catriona sat behind him and held the revolver on her thigh. Stonecypher said, "I never see it but I wonder how it looked before the water." Before him, North Fork, an arm of Kings Lake, twisted across the Virginia line four and one-half miles away, while to Stonecypher's right, Boone Lake sparkled like a gigantic, badly drawn V. He did not look toward Surgoinsville Dam securing Kings Lake far to the west. The Tennessee Lakes were born in # when Wilson Dam spanned the Tennessee River at Muscle Shoals, Alabama; but their growth was retarded for fifteen years, until an Act of Congress injected them with vitamins. Then the mile-long bastions of concrete crawled between the ridges. Norris, Wheeler, Pickwick Landing, Guntersville, Watts Bar, Kentucky, Cherokee, Fort Henry, Boone, Sevier, Surgoinsville -- almost innumerable dams blocked the rivers. The rivers stopped and overflowed. The creeks swelled into rivers. Congressional Committees investigated, the Supreme Court tested the dams against the Constitution, ethnologists and archeologists ha.stily checked for Indian relics; and the dams, infused with youthful vigor, matured. Beginning with Norris, which backed up the Clinch and Powell Rivers to inundate # acre.s and displace # families, the dams expanded mighty aquatic muscles. The Tennessee, the Little Tennessee, the Nolichucky, the Holston, the French Broad, the Watauga, the Hiwassce, the Little Pigeon -- all the rivers spread their waters into lengthy, ragged lakes, changing the map of Tennessee more than any natural cataclysm, such as the great earthquake of #, had ever done. The Lakes provided jobs, electric power, flood control, soil conservation, a fi.shcrman's paradise, milder winters, cooler summers, and they covered all the really good farming land in the eastern part of the .state. Gatriona loaded the revolver. It was an obsolete .# Magnum with a Sji inch barrel, and the cartridge cases of the metal-piercing bullets had a greenish sheen. "Now, put it in the holstah, and be ca'eful," Catriona said. Stonecypher wore the holster, a leather silhouette studded with two spring clips opening forward, on a belt and secured to his leg by a thong. Gingerly, he took the revolver and dipped it under the clips. "I've kept outa duels all my life," he said, "but, so long as it's for you, I don't much mind." "Ah'll mind if he kills you. You do like I tell you, and you can beat him. Whv, niah best act in the How-To Cahnival was How to Win a Duel. Cou'se, they didn't know ah was really drawin' befoah the buzzah sounded. Why, ah used to set two plates ten yahds apaht, draw two revolvahs, and shoot both plates, all in foah-tenths of a second!" Stonecypher grinned. "Sorry I missed that carnival first time it came through here. I coulda seen you in that costume they poured on you, three years earlier." "Nevah mind the veiled compliments. Now, try it!" Stonecypher faced the target, a sheet of p!astil)oard roughly sawed to the shape of a man, and backed by a heap of earth removed from the new, as yet dry, pond in which they stood. Catriona pressed a small buzzer concealed in her palm. Stonecypher's big hand closed on the revolver butt, pushing the weapon up and forward. The sound of the shot rattled away over the mountain top. "That's good!" Gatriona cried, consulting the sonic timer. "One and two-tenths seconds from buzzah to shot!" "But I missed," Stonecypher protested. "Look bad on te'ee." "You'll hit him. Watch the recoil next time." Stonecypher drew and fired a second wild shot. He snorted, "Confound Westerns, anyhow!" "Weste'ns?" "Sure. That's where this duelin started. Used to, almost ever movie or tevee was called a Western. Sort of a fantasy, because they were just slightly based on real history. They generally showed a feller in a flowered shirt, ridin' a Tennessee Walking Horse, and shootin' a gun. Ever'bodv in these Westerns had a gun, and they all shot at each Other. "The youngin's were hep on 'em, so they all wore toy guns, and a whole generation grew up on Westerns. When they got big, they carried real guns. I've heard my great-uncle tell about it, how before the Government built duelpens and passed laws, you couldn't hardly cross the Lakes without ninnin' Into a bunch of fools on water calves skis shootin' at each other." grazec "You leave the histo'y books alone foah awhile," Catriona commanded, "and practice. The tenants and all'll tend to the wo'k. Try it loaded and empty. Hook this little buzzah to the timeah, and practice. Ah've got to go see the chickens." " 'Bye, teacher." Stonccypher dropped the buzzer in his pocket and watched her vanish into the grove. He fired the remaining shots, nicking the target once. With the revolver bolstered, he followed the padi to the summer pasture. Stonecypher cupped his liands around his mouth and yelled, "Smart-calves! Smart-calves to school!" The entire herd turned sorrowful e)TS on him. Seven of the calves and four of the yearlings trotted to the gate, which Stonccyphrr held open, and jostled out of the pasture. As the calves began to lie down under the trees, a white heifer-caJf nuzzled Stonecypher's hand and bawled, "Paaapy gyoing a fyightt?" "Yeah, he's goin' to fight," Stonecypher answered. "Your pappy's gone to the bullring. He suggested it, and made die choice himself. He's got real courage. You oughta all be proud of him." The calves haw'led their pnde. Including those remaining in the pasture, they presented a colorful variety of spots, specks, splotches, browns, reds, blacks, and even occasional blue and grccnidi tinges. Stonccypher .sat facing them from a stump. He said, "I'm sorta late for the lesson, today, so we'll get on with it. Some of this will be repetition for you yearlings, but it won't hurt. If you get too bored, tlicre's corn and cottonseed meal in die trough, only be (juiet about it. "Now. To look at yu all. nobody would think vou'rc the same breed of cattle; but you. and your maminys, and Moe are the only Atohmy cattle on Earth. It's usually hard to say exactly when a breed started ; but you all started a long, long time ago, on July #, #, near Alamogordo. New Mexico, when they exploded the first Atomic Bomb." At mention of Atomic Bomb, who had succeeded the Bogger Man as a means of frightening cdiildren, one of the younger calves bawled. Her polled, brindled mother ran in ungainly fashion to the fence and mooed widi great carrying power. "All right!" Stonccypher yelled. The cow closed her big mouth, but stayed by the gate. "Can't go by what you hear the tenants tell their kids," Stonccypher cautioned the calf, "Atomic Bomb is as dead as the tank and the battleship. "Now, like I was sayin', the scientists put Atomic Bomb on a hundred foot tower and blowcd him up. There was a flash of fire, and an awful racket, and the blast mist'd up a lot of dirt and dust from the ground. All this dust achumin' around in the cloud buinpt'd into little bits of metal and stulT that was highly radioactive. That means, the basic atoms of matter had been thrown out (rf kilter, .sorta deranged. The protons and electrons in an atom oughta be about equal for it to be stable, but these were shootin' off electrons, or beta particles, and givin' off something like powerful x-rays, called gamma rays, and things like that. "Anyhow, this radiation affected all the sand and bits of rock and dirt in that l)omb cloud. This radiation is dangerous. Some of it will go right through several inches of lead. Enough'll kill you. Your ancestors were ten miles or so from w'here Atomic Bomb w'ent off. "They were just plain Whileface cattle. They weren't supposed to be there, but I reckon none of the scientists bothered to warn 'em. The dust started settlin' all over your ancestors. In about a week, there were sores and blisters on their backs. The red hair dropped off. When it grew back, it was gray. "The scientists got real excited when they heard about it, 'cause they wanted to see how horrible they could make Atomic Bomb. So, they shipped fifty-nine cattle up to Oak Ridge. That was a Government town, a hundred miles .southwest of here, where they made some of the stuff to put in Atomic Bomb. The University of Tennessee was runnin' an experimental farm there. They had donkeys, and pigs, and chickens, and other animals that they exposed to radioactivity. Then they killed 'em and cut 'em up to see what had happened. I know it's gruesome, but that's how it was. "The awful fact is, the scicnti.sts slaughtered more than half that original Atohmy herd for experiments. Some of the rest, they -- uh -- married. Wanted to see if the calves had two heads, or something; if radioactivity had speeded up the mutation rate. "Back then, they didn't understand much about mutation. Some claimed a little radioactivity would cause it, some said a whole lot, and some said it wouldn't hurt a bit." "Whaa mootyaaonn?" asked the calf which was not yet assured of the extinction of Atomic Bomb. "Well, you-all are all mutations. I've told you how life starts from one cell. This cell has thread-like things in it called chromosomes, and the chromosomes are made up of things called genes. Mutations, sort of unexpected changes, can take place in either the chromosomes or the genes. You see, when this one cell starts dividing, every gene makes a copy of itself; but, sometimes, the copy is a little different from the original. Lots of things, like x-rays and ultraviolet rays, heat, chemicals, disease, can cause this. Radioactivity had caused mutation in some experiment, so the scientists were anxious to see what happened with these cattle. "Genes determine the way an animal develops. Two mutant genes can start reactions that end up as a man with one leg, or maybe as a bull with the intelligence of an eight-year-old man. Lots of mutations are recessive. They may be carried along for generations. But, when two like mutant genes come together in reproduction, the animal is bound to be something different, the way you eleven calves are. "Now. The scientists watched the Atohmy cattle for fifteen or twenty years, and nothin' much happened. They started sayin radioactivity wasn't dangerous, and a man could walk into a place right after Atomic Bomb went off, and it wouldn't matter. They should be here to see the mess in Japan today. All the time, though, I think the cattle were changing. It may have been in little things like the length of hair, or the shape of an eyeball, or the curve of a horn, so the scientists couldn't tell without they made exact measurements all the time. "Then, a bull-calf was bom. He had shaggy black hair, and his horns grew in a spiral like a ram's. Some scientists said, 'I told you so! It speeded the mutation rate!' "Others said, 'He's a natural mutation, or else, a throw-back to prehistoric wild cattle. It happens in every breed. Atomic Bomb Iiad nothing to do with it.' "They married the bull, and then they fixed to slaughter 'im to see what his insides was like. The bull fooled 'em, though. He came down with contagious pleuro-pneumonia, the first case in years, 'cause it was supposed to have been wiped out in this country away back in the Nineteenth Century. They had to cremate the bull for fear die disease would spread. Ever' one of the calves were normal Whitefaces. "Finally, the nineteen Atohmy cattle that were left were put up for sale. My great-grandfather, Cary McPhecter, bought 'era and shipped 'em here to Bays Mountain. He's the man started this farm where there was nothin' but rattlesnakes, and trees, and rocks." "Whyy theyea selll um?" a red roan calf interrupted. "Well, they sold 'em 'cause Oak Ridge had been condemned. That was several years after the German Civil War. It was peace time, for a change, and folks were .rick of Atomic Bomb. Anyhow, new, modern plants for makin' the stuff had been built in secret places a lot easier to defend. The women were cryin' for more automatic kitchens, so the Bureau of Interior Hydroelectric Power (that's the name Federal Pow'er, Inc., went by then) put another dam across the Clinch River below Norris. Bush Lake covered up Oak Ridge. "There wasn't much mutation, except for color, in you Atohmy cattle, till seven years ago when your pappy, Moe, was born. I remember -- " A hoarse excited voice shouted from a distance. "Thrill party!" it cried. "Thrill party!" stump, stamped his rigt foot to restore circulation, and yelled on the run, "That's all todayl Stay under the trees!" He loped along the pasture fence and across the makeshift target range. Two tenants. Teddy and Will, stood on the dirt heap with pitchforks in their hands. Over Bay Knob, an old Model # butterflier hovered on ribrating wings. Sloppy white letters on the sides of the aircraft spelled such slang expression.'i percOlossalSoniC Flap ship," and An impossible number of middleschool-age boy's bulged from the cabin windows. Methodically, they dumpi'd trash and garbage over the transmitter station ruins. The butterfiier wheeled and flapped over the pasture. Red clover bent and writhed in the artificial wind from the omithopter wings. Cows bawled and ran wild. Calves fell over each other. Stonecypher jumped the fence. He w'rested the revolver from the holster. "Clear out, or I'll shoot!" he ho'vvled. Voices spilled from the butterflier. "He got a handgun!" "Dis ain't legal!" "Whatcha say, tall, bones, and ugly?" Stonecypher aimed the Magnum at the shaven head in the pilot's seat. The boys looked faint. Agitated air thundered as the butterflier lifted straight up two hundred feet and glided away in the directon of Surgoinsville Dam. Teddy and Will stood by with pitchforks unrelaxed. Will spat a globule of tobacco juice. "The thangs these here psychologists git made law!" he sneered. "You want me to make out a Thrill Damage Claim?" "No, Will," Stonecypher said, "just deduct it from taxes." Teddy looked at the revolver and said, "Ever'body oughta take guns to em crazy youngin's. Reckon you'll git into trouble?" "No. It's an empty antique. That's legal. You guys did all right. Let the calves back in, huh?" The tenants left by the gate, and, with a minimum of driving, urged the calves into the pasture. Stonecypher watched the men pass through the grove. Although the tenants undoubtedly recognized the peculiarities of the calves, they never mentioned them. Since the late #'s, through Revolution, Civil War, automobile, the Department of Internal Revenue, the multiple bureaus that had controlled the Lakes, the Moon rocket, and the expedition to Pluto, these people had remained suspiciously interested in strangers, suspicious of indoor plumbing, doubtful of the Government, quick-tempered, and as immovable as Chimney Top. They had exchanged little except log and frame houses for concrete. The tenants, not really tenants, had been squatting on Bays Mountain when Cary McPheeter bought the farm ; and there they stayed. Stonecypher vaulted the fence. Catriona, with hands firmly planted on hips, stood in the dry pond. Stonecypher said, "If I just knew what these thrill parties think they're up to, it might help." Catriona shook her head of redyellow hair. "Nevah mind them. Ah told you to practice shootin, but the minute ah turn mah back, you run off and staht teachin' those calves! You've got to practice, Stony! You've nevah done any shootin', and L. Dan's killed ten people. Ah -- " "Watch the tears, or you'll have red and green eyes," Stonecypher said. Clumsily, he ejected the shells and reloaded the revolver. He occupied two seconds in drawing and firing. The bullet struck dirt a yard to the left erf the target. lashed Bays Mountain on the afternoon of July #. As the storm passed, a blood-red butterflier, with a pusher propeller in the tail and a plastic bull head on the nose, descended in the young Sudan grass. Stonecypher dropped the saw -- he had been clearing away a beech limb the storm left in the abandoned paddock -- and strolled to greet Ringmaster A. Oswell. "Stonecypher!" the ringmaster announced. "That storm almost caught us!" Oswell's stainless steel teeth clacked, and the breezes trailing the thunderclouds ballooned his orange silk kimono. "I never liked these butterfliers. Theyre too slow, and that swooping motion! Five hundred miles per hour may seem fast to a man your age; but in my day, back before petroleum was classified as armament, we had jets! Real speed!" "Come on up to the house, ringmastbr," Stonecypher invited. "I'll mix up some dextrose and citric acid." "No. no time," the fat man panted. "Only time to see you about that bull you sold me. Tlie storm took a limb of your beech tree! Almost the only one left, I suppose. About that bull, Stonccyphcr. you know I was a bit hesitant when I bought him, but my driver talked me into it. I'm so disappointed I had him drafted immediately!" "But, what -- " Stonccyphcr attempted to ask. "The young woman there in the butterflier is a much better driver and pilot," Oswell bal)blcd. "I wouldn't have believ'cd it of a woman! She weighs a good ninetyeight pounds, too! That bull -- he has changed completely since we put him under the stands. He eats well, but he shnw.s no spirit at all. Tomorrow is the big day. Stonecypher! I can't disappoint the crowd! I thought he might be sick, but the vet says not. Tliat bull let the vet come into the cage and made absolutely no attempt to kill him!" "But does Fergus -- " "Fergus's manager saw the bull! He's all for it. Fergus made an extremely poor showing on Memorial Day, and the manager thinks this odd bull would provide a real comeback! I advised against it This heat is terrible! The storm didn't cool the air at all." Stonccyphcr maneuvered the perspiring ringmaster into the shade of the beech. He said, "I wanta do the fair thing with you, ringmaster, so I'll give you a guarantee, in writing if you want. If that bull's not the bravest ever fought in Highland Bullring, I give you double-money-back." Oswell's face wobbled in a tentative smile. He counted his stubby fingers. "Double-moneyback?" "Yeah. I wanta get into the business. My grandfather used to sell bulls, Then my father came along, and he wouldn't sell a one." "Yes. Yes, I once tried to reason with him, but -- " "He had funny ideas," Stonecypher pressed his advantage. "I never did understand the old man myself. He used to lecture me on something he called the Man-Animal War. He said one of the wwst things in the w ar was the thousands of bulls that had been tortured to death." "Peculiar idea. Of course --  "He claimed bullfights slipped up on this country. Back when it wasn't legal, they spaded up the ground real go. There were movies, and books, and magazines, and foreign broadcasts, all ravin' about how brave and noble it was for a bunch of men to worry and torture a stupid animal like a bull, till he couldn't hardly bold bis head up, and then run a sword in im." "Naturally, you -- " "I don't luiow how' many times he told me a bull had more brains than a horse, but less then a jackass. He said buUfightin' wasn't a sport, even if the bull got a man sometimes ; and he had the idea the worst thing was the four or five horses, that ever' bull killed, took with im. They had some bloodless bullfights in California, and the nut colonies out there like it so good, first thing you know, we really had it. It came to East Tennessee 'cause this was one of the biggest cattleraisin' sections, before the Lakes took the grazin' land." "Surely, Stonecypher, you -- " "My father always claimed if the bullfighters were near as brave as they said, they'd take on a really intelligent animal sometimes, like a man-eatin' tiger. He even thought in the first place." Stonecypher grinned. "No, you don't ne to worry about me, ringmaster. I hate to admit it, but the old man is the Oswell revealed all of his steel teeth in a broad smile. "You had me worried!" he wheezed. "Now, your offer." "I'll go even better," Stonecypher said, "just to show how set I am on gettin' back in the business. If Moe's not brave, I got two yearlin's you can have for free." "How generous! You've reassured me, Stonecypher. I have confidence, now, that the show will be a great success! I must go! You have no conception of the life a ringmaster leads before a fight. I won't require a written gfuarantee. I trust you, Stonecypher! See you tomorrow, I hope! I never liked July. If the Government would only make more Lakes, it might cool off! I hope -- " The whir of the red btrtterflier's wings terminated Oswell's discourse. With a face like a gored bullkiller, Stonecypher watched the ringmaster's departure. Another butterfiier hpvered above the mountain. This one was green and gold with the canopy pushed back and a glint of twin lenses in the cockpit. Will appeared at Stonecypher's side. He spat in a long arc and said, "That's a new one, ain't it, peepin' from a butterfly? I reckon L. Dan never got kilt in that other duel like I hoped he would. You want us to git you outa this, Stonecypher?" "No, Will." "We can see you git to the Smokies. The Givemment'll never find you down in there."  "I'll be aU right, Will. If he does kill me, take care of Catriona. And look after the calf records." "Sure thang." Stonecypher walked slowly toward Catriona's open-topped sunbathing tent justed his black tarn. "Do not touch your shooting hand to your weapon until the buzzer sounds," he instructed. "Otherwise, the weapon may be carried as you wish. At the slightest infringement of the rules, a robot gun will kill you. If you have any elaborate last words, say them now; because the pen is soundproof." He laughed an obviously much rehearsed laugh. L. Dan wore orange tights today, but no armor, since the rules required deulists to present naked torsos for probable bullets. Stone cypher faced the duelinaster. "I reckon this room is the only place a man really has free speech," he said. "You're deaf, and can't sec good enough to read lips, and me or him will soon be dead. "I don't believe in this duclin'. It pves a man who's wrong a chance to kill one who's right. A man shouldn't oughta have to die because he's right. Just like ever'thing else in this Manly Age. It's painful. That oughta be our motto, More Pain, ju.st like in the Macliine Age it was More Gadgets At Any Cost." "Why don't you go on tevee?" Dan jeered. "She'll soon forget you, farmer." Stonccypher's words rolled over the hobbyist. "I reckon the Manly Age came because a man started thinkin' he wasn't much of a man any more. He was just as fast as his car, and just as strong as his electric lawn mower. And a loud minority of the women was claimin' they could do anything a man could, and maybe better. So tlie men started playin' football in shorts and huntin' c.ach other on game preserves, and the women went back to the kitchen and bedroom. Lots of things that went on undercover come out in the open. Cockfights, dogfights, coon-on-alog, duels, stallion fights, bullfights. "And people like you, L. Dan, went on livin'. You got no right to live. You don't do any useful work. The Earth is slowly starvin', and you take the grub out of some feller's mouth who might could help a little. That's why -- " "Time!" announced the duelmaster with his face close to a large clock on the wall. He opened the door. Two men carrying a body on a stretcher passed. The body had four bullet wounds in it. Dan said, "That drivel gives me a real reason to kill you, farmer. I'll be good to her for a few days." As prearranged, Dan took the  right branch of the corridor and Stonecypher, the left. A hooded snan gave Stonecypher the Magnum revolver and shut him into a space resembling a windowed closet with a door on cither side. Stonecypher secured the revolver in the clip holster. His bony hands formed knotted fists. The pen door slid back. Stonecy#hor stepped into a room thirty by ninety feet with three bulletmarred concrete walls and a fourth wall of bulletproof glass, behind which sat the ghoulish audience. Dan, crouched and with his pistol in the crook of his left elbow, advanced. His right hand fluttered an inch from the pistol butt. Stonecypher, grotesque with thin chest exposed and overall bib wrapped around belt, waited. Two photoelectric robot machine guns followed each movement of the duelists. A buzzer sounded. Dan's index finger failed to reach the trigger, for a guardian machine gun removed the hobbyist's head in a short efficient burst. The noise of a louder buzzer punctuated the execution. When the soxmdproof inner door of the closet opened, the hooded man, who had a pair of crossed pistols tattooed on the back of his right hand, said, "He was too anxious." "Yeah," Stonecypher grunted. The man watched Stonecypher pass out to the street. Stonecypher snapped up the bib of his overalls. An extremely rare bird, a robin, hopped from his path and continued a fruitless search for insects. Stonecypher walked down Watauga Street until the pavement vanished under the brownish-green water of Kings Lake. Catriona squealed when she saw him. Ignoring all Correct Procedures, she almost knocked him down and attempted to smother him. "Ah told you it just took practice!" she blubbered. "You did it, Stony!" With muffled mumbles, Stonecypher managed to put her in the Tenite canoe. The few people along the quay, who had witnessed the illegal manner of their meeting, watched with shock, or with incredulity, or with guarded admiration. When they saw that Stonecypher's hand rested on a bolstered revolver, they lost their curiosUy. Wading, Stonecypher shoved e canoe off and hopped aboard. As he took up the paddle, Ills hand trailed in the water and released the small buzzer that had made possible Catriona's best carnival act. F or July, the afternoon was cool. Blue-gray clouds drifted before larger di white masses. To the southwest opened the mile-wide mouth of Horse Creek; and, far beyond, the great blue pyramid of Chimney Top Mountain stood defiantly above Sevier Lake. The world seemed water broken only by partly submerged hills and mountains. Stonecypher gazed across the Lake at Bays Mountain and at the five Cement Islands apparently Boating against that backdrop. Softly, he said, "Some follw call the big one Martyrs Island. There's a marble pillar right in the middle. Nobody knows who put it there, and the Government never bothered to knock it down. I reckon the poison ivy's covered it by now, but I went and read the inscription, once, when I was a boy. It says: "They moved me off the Powell River. They covered my farm with water. I bought me another near Beans Station. The water covered it. I was getting old, but I built at Galloway Mill. When they flooded that, I gave up and lived in Kingsport. I will not move again." The canoe bounded over the choppy water, one hundred feet above the silted streets of the flooded city of Kingsport. Stonecypher said, "The time I was there, you could still find a few coptertrooper helmets and old cankered shells. Couple of years back, a diver brought up two skulls off shore." Catriona's eyes remained moist, but she smiled. Her teeth were beautiful. "It'll be all rahght. Stony. You can't change the wo'ld in one dav. You did fine, and Moe will too." "I told you to stay at the bullring," Stonecypher said. "Ah couldn't watch that! And those puny, little, mousy women stare and talk about me, because thcah's a little meat on mah cahcass. Oswell said Moe would be last, anyhow. Ah was so wo'ied about you, ah couldn't sit still." Only a few boats, mainly those of piscatorial maniacs, were on the lake. Stonecypher glared at them and muttered, "I hope I did right by Moe. He wanted to fight. Maybe, Catriona, if I'd had you when I found out he could talk -- not ju.st mimic -- I'd of raised him difl'crcnt. Maybe I shouldn't have shown him that bullfight movie, but I wondered what the only bull to see a bullfight from outside llie ring thought about it. "That led him to wantin' to know all about the Man-Animal War. I told him the best I could, how one of a man's basic drives is to exterminate, ever' since prehistoric times when he did in the vvooly mammoth and rhinoceros. Tlie dodo, quagga, passenger pijii'on, great auk, aurochs. Key df'rr, bisin. African elephant, gorilla, tiger therc'.s an awful list. Why, five hundred species of iiummals, alotu, have become estinrt siiue I .A. I)., 'bout four hundred of tlu-m siu' A man'll even kill oil' oiIht men, like die Neanderthals and the Tasmanians!" Sionecyplier resti-d die paddle and grinned, faintly, at Catriona reclining in the bow. "I guess you've heard diis before." "Go rahght ahead, Stony," Catriona sighed. "Ah like to heah yoali speech. It's the only time you really get angry, and you look so fine and noble." "Yeah. Well. I told Moe how a man exterminates useful or harmles.s species, and then he lets dangerous ones, like rats, eat lum out of hoii.se and home. Course, I explained this was just kinship. Folks used to argue man come from a monkey, or from spontaneous combusdon, or something. Now we got fossil proof he's not like anything anybody ever saw. He's a case of straight line development all the way back to the first mammal, a sort of rat." The canoe glided past Highland Pier. Every type of small watercraft, from a punt, through an electric motorboat, to a sloop, had docked. More boats lined the shore on either side of the pier. The flying field contained so many butterfliers and copters that there seemed no possibility of any of them taking ofl'. Human voices welled in a mob roar from the great open cylinder of the bullring. A huge banner draped on die curving white wall proclaimed, in ten-foot letters: Stonecypher ran the canoe aground in a patch of dead weeds, I 'xixiscd by a slight lowering of the lake level, and helped Catriona over the rocks that lined the bank. Me said, "I told Moe other things men do to animals. All the laboratory butchery, done because it would be cruel to treat a man like that, but it's all right with a animal, like takin' out a dog's brains and lettin' 'im live. I told him about huntin', how the kudu become extinct 'cause a bunch of fools wanted to see w'ho could kill the one with the biggest horns. "I told him the things done to domestic animals. Dehornin', emasculatin', brandin', slaughterin' with sledge hammers and butcher knives, keepin' 'em in filthy bams. A man tells hisself he's superior to other animals. If he does somethin' bad, he u.ses words like inhuman, brutal, animal instincts, instead of admittin' it's just typical behavior. And the psychologists take some animal, say a dog, and put him in a maze, sometliing the dog never saw before. If the dog don't run the maze in two seconds flat, they say he's a pretty stupid animal. He just operates on instinct, but they can't say how instinct operates. They'll have a time explainin' Moc's instincts. "I reckon the American bison made Moe madder than anything. They killed the bison off, 'cept for protected herds, in the Nineteenth Century. A hundred years lalir, the herds had got pretty big, so they declared open season on bison. No more bison." A recorded voice growled, "No guns permitted in ring. Deposit gun in slot. No guns permitted in ring." Stonecypher moved his permit in ineffectual passes before the electric eye. He shrugged, dropped the revolver into the riot, and left his thumb print. Catriona displayed the passes Ringmaster Oswell had given them. The tcveer blinked, and the gate granted admission. They rode the escalator to the sixth tier and squirmed through pandemonium to their seats. The male portion of the crowd wore every possible style and color of dress, in complete emancipation from the old business suit uniform, but the women wore sober falsebosomed sundresses and expressed excitement in polite chirps. Stonecypher pressed his mouth against Catriona's ear and whispered through the din, "You got to understand, Cat, whatever happens, Moe wanted it. He says he can scare some killers into givin' up bullfights and maybe help stop it." "He'll do fine, Stony." Several spectators stopped venting tlieir wrath on the unfortunate man in the ring to gawk at the couple. Catriona's unorthodox phyrique aroused sufficient amazement; but, in addition, Stonecypher gave her the front seat and took the rear one, the correct place for a woman, himself. Below, through a rain of plastibottles and rotten eggs, a tired man walked to the barrier which Oswell adverti.sed as the onlv wooden fence in seven states. Behind the killer, a small electric tractor dragged out the bloody carca.ss of a bull. A gasping, gibbering little man grabbed Stonecypher's arm and yelped, "Illard is the clumsie.st killer, he ran the sword in three times, and the kid with the dagger had to stick twee before they finished, Big Dependence Day Bullfight my jet! This is the worst in years, Fergus made the only clean kill all afternoon, and I flew every one of eighteen hundred miles myself to see it, this last bull better be good!" The little man waved his bag of rotten eggs. Although the bullfight followed the basic procedures established by Francisco Romero in the Spain of #, changes had occurred, including the elimination of all Spanish words from the vocabulary of the spectacle since the unpleasant dispute with the Spanish Empire twenty years Ixifore. The gaudy costpmes worn by participants had been replaced by trunks and sneakers. A purring grader smoothed the Simd. The crowd fjuieted, except for those iicai' the box of Ringmaster Oswcll. 'I'hcy suggested in obsi enc tejTiis that the ir immov be refunded. A trumpet recording blared. A Miulct dot)r, inscriled, "Moe of Bays Mountain Fann," opened. #'lu irowd awaited the first wild rusli of ilie bull. It failed to materialize. vmxw nAi.E the doorway. Above, (ni a platform inside tlie hanier, stocd a gray-haireci man who stuck identifying, streamered il-ul' into bovine shoulders. His hand ssc)i down, carrying StonccypluT's chosrn colors, black. Moc's walk upset the man's timing. His arm moved too stum. Mtw'.s front hooves left tin gmund. Honrs hooked. The gray-liaircl man screamed and dro)Ml the dart. With a spike of horn through his arm, betw'eon bone and biceps, he gyrated across the barrier. He screamed a second time befeu'e cloven hooves slashed across his body. Tlie crowd inhaled, then cheered the unprecedented entrance. Killer Fergus's team stood rigid, not comprehending. Then men dashed through slticlded openings in the barrier, yelling and waving pink and yellow capes to draw the bull from his victim. Moe ignored the distraction, trotted nonchalantly to tlie center . of the ring, and turned his bulging head to examine the spectators jabbering at his strange appearance. The short horns, the round skull, the white-banded eyes, the mane that seemed slightly purple under the cloudy sky, and the exaggerated slope from neck to rump that made the hind legs too short -- together they amounted to a ton of muscle almost like a bull. "Wherc'd you trap it, Oswell?" someone near the ringma.ster's box yelled. Forgetting the mess Illard had made with tlie previous bull, the rrow'd commented. "It's the last of the bison!" "He's poiple! Lookit! Poiplc!" "The bull of the woods!" "Howya like 'im, Fergus?" Killer Fergus posed behind the barrier and studied his specialty, an odd bull. Two stickers, Neel and #'omas, flourished capes to test the bull's charge, with Neel chanting, "Come on, bull! Come on, bull! Cotne on! Bull, bull, bull!" Moe did not charge. He moved, in a .sjx'culalive walk, toward the i hanting Ni cl who tantalized with the cape and retreated with shufMing steps. The charge, wiien it came, occurred almost too fast for sight. Neel wriggled on the horns, struck tljc sand, and the horns liftd him again. He smashed against the barrier. Tomas threw his cape over the bull's face. The left horn pinned the cape to Tomas's ned chest over the heart. Moe retired to the center of the ring and bellowed at the crowd, which, delirious from seeing human blood, applauded. Blood covered Moe's horns, dripped through the long hair on his neck, and trickled down between his eyes. Quavering helpers removed the bodies. The first lancer, livid and trembling, rode a blindfolded horse into the ring. "He'll fix this horse!" the crowd slavered. "We'll see guts this time!" Moe charged. The lancer backed his mount against the barrier and gripped his weapon, a stout pike. Sand sprayed like water as Moe swerved. On the left side of the horse, away from the menacing pike, Moe reared. The lancer left the saddle. A tangle of naked limbs thrashed across the wooden fence and thudded against the wall of the stands. Twenty-five thousand people held their breaths. The blindfolded horse wailed with dilated nostrils and every muscle vibrating in terror. Moe produced a long red tongue and licked the horse's jaw. Fergus dispersed the tableau. Red-haired, lean, and scarred with many past gorings, the popular killer stalked across the sand dragging his cape and roaring incomprehensible challenges. In the stands, the cheer leaders of the Fergus Fanclub lead a welcoming yell. "Yeaaaa, Fergus! Fergus! Fergus! Rah, rah, rah' Moe wandered through the helpers trying to distract him from the horse and looked at the killer. Fergus stamped his foot, shook the cape, and called, "Bull! Come on! Charge!" Moe completely circled the killer, who retired in disgust when another lancer rode into the ring. "Stick him good!" Fergus directed. The pike pointed at the great muscles of Moe's back, as the bull charged. Moe's head twisted in a blur of violence. Teeth clamped on the shaft behind the point. Too surprised to let go, the lancer followed his weapon from the saddle. He released his hold when Moe walked on him. Like some fantastic dog stealing a fresh bone, the bull trotted around the ring, tail high and pike in mouth. The crowd laughed. Wild-eyed men carried out the trampled lancer. A third, and extremely reluctant, lancer reined his horse through the gate. A pike in the mouth of a ton of beef utterly unnerved the man. He stood in the saddle and jumped over the barrier where a rain of rotten eggs from the booing fans spattered him thoroughly. A n uninjured bull pawed alone in the sand when the trumpet recording announced the end of the lancers period. The crowd noises softened to a buzz of speculation, questions, and comment, as the realization that weird events had been witnessed slowly penetrated that collective mind. The bull had not touched a horse, no pike had jabbed the bull, and five men had been killed or InGovemment!" a clear jured. "Great voice swore. "That ain't no bull, it's a monster!" Tliis opinion came from a sticker in Illard's team. Fergus attempted to persuade the man to help, since both of Fergus's stickers were dead. Part of the crowd agreed with lire stii ker's tluMight. for people began moving furtively to the exits with cautions glances at the animal in llu' ring. 'I'hcy, of course, could not know tiuit tin bull had been trained, with rul)herknew the first, and only, law of staying alive in the ring, "Charge the man and mt the cloth." The clouds that had obscured the sky all tlay formed darker masses tinted with pink to the east, and the black clot of a turkey buzzard wheeled soaring in the gloom. Carrying, in either hand, a barbed stick sparkling with plastic streamers, Fergus wnlkc'd into the ring. His assistants uiutiously flanked him with capes, Moe dropped the pike and charged in the ajiproved manner of a bull. Fergus raised the sticks high and brought them down on the humped back, although the back was not there. Tlie sticks dropped in the sand. As the killer leaped aside in the completion of a reflex action, a horn penetrated the seat of his trunks. The Fergus Fanclub screamed while their hero dangled in ignominy from the horn. Moe ignored tlae flapping, frantic capes. The killer gingerly gripped a horn in either hand and tried to lift himself off. Gently, Moe lowered his head and deposited the man beside an opening. Fergus scrabbled to safety like a rat to a hole. Four helpers with capes occupied the ring. When they saw death approaching on cloven hooves, two of them cleared the fence. The third received a horn beside his backbone and tumbled into the fourth. A dual scream, terrible enough to insure future nightmares, echoed above the screeching of the crowd. Moe tossed tlie bodies again and again across the bloody sand. Silence slithered over the Highland Bullring and over a scene reminiscent of the ring's bloody parent, tlie Roman Arena. Men sprawled gored, crushed, and dead across the sand. A section of the blood-specked barrier leaned splintered and cracked, almost touching the concrete wall. Unharmed, Fergus stood on one side of the battleground, Illard on the other. Fergus reached over the wooden fence for red flag and sword. Turning his back on the heaving Moe, who .stood but ten feet behind, the killer faced the quaking flesh that was Ringmaster Oswell, high up in the official box. The killer's voice shook, but the bitter satire came through the sound of departing boats and aircraft. Fergus said, 'T dedicate this bull to Ringmaster Oswell who has provided for us tliis great Dependence Day Bullfight in honor of the Great Government on which we all depend." He turned and faced the bull. Moe, for once, rushed the red flag, the only thing that made bullfights possible. His great shoulders presented a fair target for the sword. Fergus, perhaps the only bullfighter ever to be gored in the brain, died silently, lire sword raked a shallow gash long Moe's loin. In the sixth tier of the stand.s, saliva drooled from the slack mouth of the little man seated beside Stoneiypher. "Now's your chance. Illaid!" the man stjualled. "Be a hero! The last of the bullfighters! Kill him. Illard!" Illard walked on shaking legs over bodies he did not sec. He was short, fur a killer, and growing bald. I Ic picked up the sword Fergus had dropped, looked into the gory face of the bull, and toppled in the sticky sand. The sword quivered point-first beside his body. hei:es.sioal Highland Bullring. Riding the wind, blacker than the clouds, the over the rim of the stands with air whistling through the spatulnte feathers of rigid wings. The buzzard swooped a foot above Moe's horn.s and soared swiftly over the opposite side of the ring. That started the panic, although Moe's charge accentuated it. He crashed into the sagging section of the barrier. Cloven hooves scraped the wooden inclined plane, and Moc stopped with front feet in the first tier of the stands. He bellowed. The bull killed only one spectator, a man on whom he stejiped. The hundreds who died killed themselves or each other. They leaped from the towering rim of the ring, and they jammed the exits in writhing heaps. Moe's precarious stance slipped. Slowly, he slid back into the ring, where Ringmaster Oswell, quivering in a red toga, gestured from the darkness under the .stands, The fat man squeaked and waved. Moe's charge embodied the genuine fighting rage of a maddened bull. The scarlet door closed behind him. Stonecypher, with fists bloody and a heap of unconscious fearcrazed spectators piled before him, sat down. "Well. Moe," he whispered, 'T reckon you got even for a few of the bulls that's been tortured to death to atnuse a bunch of nuts. Maybe it wasn't the right way to do it. I don't know. If I'd only had the gun -- " Catriona turned a white mask of a face up to Stonecypher. "They killed him, in thenh?" "Sure. Bullfigluin' never was a sxrt. The bull can't win. If he's not killed in the ring, he's slaughtered under the stands." "You have nioah smart-bulls. Stony." The black copter came in with the sunset and hovered over the sand. The face of Duclmaster Smith peered out under his black tarn, while a hooded man, with pistols tattooed on his hand, aimed an automatic rifle. The duelniaster smiled at Stonecypher and cried, "You really should have waited until you were farther out in the Lake, before you dropped that little buzzer in e water." Fights of th Future fighting will probably bo done by high-flying automatic machines controlled from the ground by technicians. War vidims will be the unlucky ones on whom the bombs arc released, while the men who do the actual fighting will be comparatively safe. Powerful destructive bombs and intercepting missiles will chase each other at sx'ds, heals and heights that the liuinan body could never stand. Until recently, the speed of sound was considered mysterious and unbeatable. Today, our fighting planes can beat this speed in short spurts. And this i.s only the beginning. The National Advisory Coinmiltei for Aeixinau tics, in expcrinu-niing with designs for planes and miwiles of ilie furegions. This Ixjgins at five times the speed of sound. And at more than five miles up, where superplanes must fly. sound's sjK'cd comes to # miles per hour. The dangers at such sjirrds arc tremendous. But there will lxno reason for man to expose himself to these rigors. The machines that his skill and brains develop wilt do that for him. The danger of overheating is the principal barrier when planes and missiles are pushed through the air. At three times the speed of sound, the friction between the air and the surface of the plane produces a temperature of # degiees F. At five times sound, the temperature may reach # dcgrcc.s. This would melt most metals into a shapeless mass, kill the crew and destroy the equipment. This heat is created in the thin boundary layer of air around the aircraft. N'hile for short spurts of uliraspecd it will not soak into the craft, for sustained flight even te.st planes must be virtually flying refrigerators. Titanium and other such metals capable of beating the heat effect will be used to overcome this danger. There is even talk of constructing supersonic planes of a glass laminate made of fiber glass and held together by a suitable bonding resin, like polyester. The phenolics and melamines could also be used as bonding resins. From varied tests and uses, this type of glass appears able to w ithstand the searing skin friction temperature generated in uhra-high pecd flight much bettcT than most metals used in today's aircraft. From all indications, air fighting of (he future will probably be strictly impersonal. The machines themselves will be the pilots; the crew on the ground will merely start the machinery to working and guide them along their way. The wars in which our children and grandchildren will share will undoubtedly be infinitely more destructive, overwhelmini and farfetched than anything we can dream up in today's fiction. The Robot Whipping Boy may soon have an actual counterpart who will be used to perform the kinds of work that humans consider too dangerous -- such as clearing up radioactive debris, dismantling bombs, closing broken gas mains, etc. To operate this type of mechanism, it would be necessary to mount the robot on a vehicle radiocontrolled from a console set up a safe distance away. The radio-controlled arms will manipulate like human arms, while the operator will get a three-dimension view of the progress of the work through his binocular television camera. Thus, the mechanical hand responding to the action of the operator's hand will work almost with a sense of touch in handling the dangerous objects. As the operator's hand doses upon an object, the tnccbanical hands will do likewise, so that the oerator will feel the resistance imposed by the object that U being handled some distance away. Lost New World sea -- a depth of approximately five, and in some cases #, miles -- there exists an entire world of sea life. This was described in the reports of a recent deep sea expcditiHi made by a Danish naval vessel. Twenty-seven different varieties of sea life were dredged up from their black world where they live in close to freezing temperatures, and under pressures of about # poimds to the square inch. Included were all types of creatures similar to poljps and coal, all sedentary-type animals, but it is possible that larger and more active creatures such as a type of fish and squid also exist at these depths. Right now, however, it is impossible to do more than vaguely scratch the surface of this world, since we haven't developed the right tools for sea bottom research. What we have to work with now is still in a crude state. Scientists also found that the bottom of the sea was infested with bacteria which showed major differences in character from bacteria found on land or in surface waters. It's the last frontier on otir planet: the bottom of the sea. Watch Those Scales! old Roman bronze weighing instrument on exhibit in a Baltimore, Maryland, art museum, it would seem that the ancient Roman merchant didn't have as much of an opportunity to weight the scales as his modern counterparts do. According to the instrument exhibited, the Roman scale worked on the lever principle. There is a #-inch portable bronze rod which hangs by any one of tliree hooks, each on a different face of the rod. The item to be weighed is hung on hooks which are suspended from a chain at the end of the short arm of the lever. This idea is very similar to that used in certain types of scales in use ttxlay. Only a .single counterweight, however, was used in the old Roman scale to balance tin object bein weighed. Its operation was simple: all one did was slide the counterweight hark and forth along the graduated .scale on the long ann of the lever until it balanced. The weight could then be read from the scale. The entire instrument has three fares and three scales, each one exposed when the scale is hung by its corresponding hook. Voodoo Con Kill You! death" is more than just that. According to Ois. W. Proctor Harvey of Washington and Samuel A. Levine of Bosic'n, writing for the Journal of thf Amnican Medical Association, it is possible to be literally frightened to dcMlh. Although (Ic.itli from fright is rather rare, abnormal heartbeats caused by fright from a prolonged and highly irregular pattern which the doctors say could lead to ventricular nbrillalion. This is a situation where groups of heart muscles beat independently and without rhythm and the heart is unable to pump blood, thus resulting in death. Animal c-xperiments show' a nervous pathway from the hypothalamus -- tlic base of the brain -- to the heart. This -- to a nonnal person in a highly frightening emotional situation -- could cause types of ventricular irregularities which could result in death. The "voodoo" and "hexing" deaths of Africa and South America and Australia are not myths. They actually do occur. The emotion stress of the terrorized fear brought out by "voodoo" or "hexing" can cause death, but it would be a gradual process rather than a sudden one. Things We Never Knew Until Recently nr HE prehistoric buffalo,  according to bones recently unearthed in Texas, was almost twice as large as his modem progeny. The reason women are usually smaller than men is that the female -- or estrogenic -- hormone has a growth-suppressing action which is exerted through its stimulation of the adrenal gland to produce hormones similar to cortisone. These honnones depress the rate of energy production and have a powerful action in checking replacement of skin cells and suppressing growth in general. A cubic foot of atmosphere at times the amount of air of a cubic foot of atmosphere at an altitude of # miles. If laid edge to edge, the blood cells carried in the average adult human body would stretch I # miles. One ordinary' glass marble could make # miles of glass fiber. The energy in an average thunderstorm is equal to that dissipated by # A-bombs of the type dropped over Hiroshima. Norm Venners fancy was pretty well fixed on thoughts of electronic calculators -- until the invention started making passes at the inventor! Hninantic Inalape By W. W. Skupeldyckle Illustrated by Ed Enish M athematicians are just like people: old, young, fat, thin, male, female. This one was male, thirty-five, with steady brown eyes and a nice smile when he remembered to use it. His name was Norman Venner. and besides being a mathematical whiz generally, he had. designed and built an electronic brain, or calculator, which was in some ways smarter than himself -- and a lot less diffident. Electronic calculators are invariably given acronmic names such and nine out of ten of them are of the digital type. This is a nice way of saying that they count on their fingers. Thcre nearly as big as yats, and cost more, but can calany human. Norm's machine was of the analogue type, which is less flexible, less complex, and vastly smaller and cheaper. He called it the stood for "I Can Work 'Em All!" It could, loo! It was especially good at deriving equations from curves, which was really something. Charley Oglethorpe burst into the office one morning, catching Norm in a brown study. "Hi, Genius. How is she perking now?" "All right, except the pen skips a little sometimes and makes a messy curve." "Have to damp that arm better. When can I have her to work on?" "Soon a.s I finish these Mugu problems." Charley stared at him. "Mugu. Guided-missile center. It's nice busine.ss if we can get it -- the digitals are all booked up months ahead, and the particular type of problem they send us b right up our alley." "I thought you w'ere kidding me, like that Boolean Algebra stufT." "Wasn't kidding then, eitlicr." "I'll stick to instrument-making, thanks. You math guv's never have any fun." Norm shrugged, turned to the telephone, and called an CNtcnsion. "Hennosa." It was a rich, jlca.s ant voice. "Vic? IIow about the rest of the Mugu cards? Ready yet?" "I'll send diem up right away. Just finished them." "Who was tliat?" Charley inquired. "Vic Hermosa. Smart boy." Charley smiled a little. T here was a knock at the door. "Come in," Norm called. 'I'he door opened, and a small, neat girl entered. Her long bob was dark and silky, but windblown. She tossed her head and her hair settled into place, as if she had just brushed it. She extended a pack of punched cards. "Thank you," Nonn said, gravelyThe girl looked up at him suddenly, and he stepped back a little. She had sur#rising, dccp-violet eyes, and their glance seemed to hav-c a tangible impact. She nodded grave acknowledgment and left. "Damn it, I wish I could do that!" Norm complained. "Make goo-goo eyes?" "No. Shake my head so mv hair would automatically be combed like hers. I've been fighting this cowlick ever since I've been a kid -- stocking caps, gunk, the works. Still got it. And the part moves around and I have to hunt for it." "Know who she is?" "Nope. Clerk, mes.senger, I guess. They're always hiring new ones." "Doesn't she ever speak?" "Of course site -- come to think of it, I've never heard her. Must say it's a relief after the usual yackcty-yack. Haven't anytliing to talk to her about, anwav. She's just a child." "A pretty one, though." "Yes, she is." "You sure don't know anything about women. If anyone made eyes at me that way, I'd do something alxnu it." "What, for instance?" Norm inquired dryly. "Well, of course, I'm married. But I'd find out wlio she was, anyhow. Sometimes I think you're dead and don't know It." "Sometimes I agree with you." Norm said. He led one of the punch cards into the transmitter head, whii h fingered the holes and curve on the cur'c tracer. It would liave taken Norm or anyone else davs to arrive at the an.swer. "Sec? Skips here and tliere, but I can ink in the gaps." "Looks like the pen catches on the paper a little. I'll grind the point while I'm at it. Say, that thing really tliinks, doesn't it?" "In a way. Generally, the digitals have it all over the analogues when it comes to reasoning, but I built an extra brain into her." "Where?" "The 'Y' path. Remember? Tries several appropriate methods in suecession. I analyzed my own methods of attack, and built the same methods into her. She's an electronic except faster and more accurate." "I bet. She's more alive than you are.,Vhy don't you step out a little? First thing you know, you'll be getting old, and it'll be too late." "Leave the match-making to the women. I may be old, but I'm not an old fool. It's fall, not spring." "Yeah? All you need to be an old fool is just a little more time." took a card from his desk. It seemed to be an extra, not with the pack. He put it in the machine. The curve-tracer began to draw a rather abrupt curve, which meandered half across the sheet before Norm realized what it was. Suddenly, an image leaped to his mind's eye and he watched with fascination while the pen traced this roatheraatical' impossibility to the far end of the paper, and in obedience to several successive negative  factors in the problem retraced in the opposite direction a litde lower down. A head, a slightly lifted elbow, full rounded breast, a knee luxuriously drawn up, a dangling arm, all in one continuous line. There was nothing obvious about it; it was formalized, but with the individual style that is the artist's signature. Once seen, the image persisted. "Hey, Charley, look at this!" "Yeah. What about it?" "What about it! You ever see anything like it?" "Sure. It's a closed loop, like a hysteresis curve." "An hysteresis curve. But this isn't one. Look closely." "Of course, it has harmonics and variables in it. Might be one of those gas-discharge curves, if the gas tube happened to be defective. ' I've seen some funny..." "Look! It's a reclining figure, with the brad turned toward you -- sec? -- and the forearm over the head -- Breast, knee here, foot with the toe pointed, calf, thigh, and the near arm hanging. Remarkabie, once vou see it... "You're crazy. All I can see is a closed loop with some wrinkles in it." "Why, it's nearly as plain as a photograph! I can't understand..." "Plain, my eye! If that's the arm hanging down, and this the hand, where are the fingers? That 'hand' is just an oval. You got some imagination if you can get a reclining figure out of that." "Not a nude of the beer-garden type, I grant you. This is real art. Know what this means? Have you any idea how complex a formula must be to trace a curve like this? Just a plain hyperbola is bad enough. This is a test of the machine. Those Mugu boys have worked out this formula to see if she could break it down and draw the equivalent . curve, though I don't see how they did it. Even the larger digitals would find this a tough nut to crack, but our baby is a whiz at curves, see? I wonder how they justified the machinetime on it. Of course it is barely possible that they derived the equalion themselves, but it must have taken weeks if they did." "Maybe it took us tong as you say, but I still can't see any reclining figure in that curv'e. It's just a closed curve with some wiggles and bumps on it." "In anv case, I'm going to send this to Mugu right away. They'll want to know how long it took." "I wouidirt, if I were you." "Why not?" "Maybe trouble developed in the inaihine. Better run some more cards through it first. But right now I'm going home. We're having a roast tonight. Say, why don't you come to supper with us? Alice would hi' delighted -- she w'as just wondering what liappened to you. ril phone her... "No, no! I have to -- look, I got to find out what this means, vou sec? It isn't that -- explain it to Alice, will you? We need this cmtract, need all the work wc can get, you understand?" "Sure, sure. IIow about next week? OK? Well, see you in the morning." Charley left, grinning to himself as he closed the door behind him. li He was already puzzled perfectly on the next five c.ards, and kept her mind on her business. Meanwhile, Norm studied the first curve again. Funny Charley couldn't see it -- the figure was puzzling at first, until you got the idea, but then it was so clear. Or was it? Suddenly, he couldn't see it himself. He turned it upside down and sidewaN's; it was just a funny closed curve, having neither mathematical nor structural significance. Maybe he was going crazy! He threw the curve down on his desk and, soothed by the whirring of the tracer motor, fell into a brown .study. Suddenly, the image of the brunette with the violet eves appeared. No reclining nude, she; site shook her head in that habitual gesture and her long bob fell perfectly in place. She turned, with demurely downcast lashes and looked up at him with her violet eyes, and Norm came out of liis trance with a start. lie removed the last curTa sijnple hyjtrboUc curve, probably a problem in .atlcnuaiion or decay of some kind and put in the last pundi-card. 'Fhe machine started up immediately; the curv'e was elliptical. Then a vertical downstroke. retraced and with a gentle half-loop added. It was writing! P-r-o-p-i-n-q... What might this be? He watched, fascinated, as the letters continued. "Propinquity is the mother of love," it said, and stopped. llis trained mathematical logic gave him an immediate solution to the enigma : he was cracking up. It was utterly impossible to derive the equation to wTite "propinquity" in Spencerian script in less than a hundred man-hours, nor could a mathematical calculator be hired for so frivolous a purpose. It was fantastic, impossible; therefore, it w'as not so, and he wa.s either dreaming or crazy. Maybe lljinking about diat little brunette... Surely not; still, lie had been driving himself pretty hard. In the moming he would be fresh and alert. If it were a trick, he'd catch the trickster. And if it turned out to be a perfectly logical curve, he'd see a doctor. He left the curve in the niachine, closed the ventilator in the wail over his desk, and turned on the burglar alarm. I'his was nothing so crude as a loose board with a switch, but a quite elaborate electronic circuit that produced a field near the door. It wouldn't work on josts, but if any material body entered that field, it would trip the alarm and start a regular Mardi Gras. Security required by government contracts hardly demanded so much, but for n small plant it was sufficiently cheap, and Charley had had a lot of fun with it. Charley! Have to keep him out, too; and being its daddy, he'd know how to disable the aLirni. Of course, it would really be sufficient to tie a thread across the door which would break if anyone entered. He had no thread, but after a moment's thought, he pulled a three-cent stamp out of his bill-fold, and turned out the office-light. After glancing up and down the hall, he stuck the stamp on the door so that it would tear if the door opened. was still intact, and it was hard to see, even in broad daylight. The paper in the curve-tracer was perfectly blank, and there was no punch-card in the transmitter head. It might still be an elaborate joke, but the chances were small. He might be cracking up, or may have imagined the whole thing. The best thing to do would be to put it entirely out of his mind. He succeeded in this until mida "handsome devil." He jerked the punch-card out of the transmitter and called Vic. "Hermosa." That voice! It made chills run  up and down his backbone. A man had no right to a voice like that. "Vic? Bring up the calculations for the last batch of punch-cards, will you? I want to check something. The card numbers are F-#I through F-#." "Right away." Vic wasn't especially gabby. A good-looking young Latin, who knew as much math as most, they'd probably lose him to the draft any day now. Presently, someone knocked on the door. "Come in." It wasn't Vic; it was the girl. She laid the pack of problems and their attached work-sheets on the desk, shook her hair into place -- did she even have to comb it in the morning when she got up? -- looked him briefly in the eye, and turned to go. "How is Vic these days?" Norm inquired, whimsically. "Is he able to get about?" The girl smiled politely at this obvious badinage and left. He checked the problems against cards as he came to them. He knew the punch code well enough to do this in his head, since the kind of operation indicated was quite obvious. But the problems ended with F-#, and the "handsome devil" card was F-#. He got on the phone again. "Vic? What's your next card number?" "F-#." One expected a little guy to have a high voice; this one was quite deep, but soft. "Are the cards numbered very far ahead?" "We usually number a couple of dozen cards, and assign the numbers to the problems as they come in, from a scratch sheet." "Any of the cards been lost?" "Oh yes, on occasion. So far, we've recovered them all -- there are only two rooms where they could be. Up there or down here." Thai voice! How could a man have a voice like that? And why should he care if one did? Why even notice it? Instead of going to the cafeteria for lunch, he drove downtown and consulted the family doctor, who laughed at him. Reassured, he returned to the plant and got a sandwich and milk before going to his office. Old Doc Heffelbauer might be wrong, but he usually wasn't. Norm liked several men, but he didn't dream about any of them; if he was off his rocker, it was in some other manner. Visual delusions, for instance. The thing to do was to see Vic face to face. He called the office manager. "Henry? Send Vic Herinosa up there, will you? I want to talk to him." "Vic Hermosa? He's in the Army. Didn't you know?" "No, I didn't. Who is the guy that answers the phone in Aat fruity voice?" Henry lowered his voice. "Guy? That's Vic's sister Virginia. She took Vic's place when he left. Simplified the security investigation, and she's good, too. About as good as Vic, I'd say." "You mean to tell me a little girl like her cotild have a voice that deep?" "Startling, isn't it? Of course, it's actually a low contralto or tenor, but you expect her to be a lyric soprano. Shall I send her up to see you. "No, no. I want to think a bit first. Say, who interviewed her?" "Charley, I suppose. Just a formality, anyhow; the Hermosas and the Oglethorpes are neighbors, you know." teric phenomena in a sealed office! His very own calculating machine made calculated love to him; his best friend was evasive, and the i 'unior mathematician he thought le had been talking to every day for a couple of weeks was in the army. He might hammer away at all concerned until all the cards were accounted for, but that would disrupt office routine. Strategy, that was the thing! Be mighty peculiar if he couldn't break up this business, now that he had an idea what wa.s going on. But did he? Whoever punched the cards needed the proper equations derived first, and that called for a digital or an analogue combecause she was especially good at curves. Deriving them by the old methods was just too much horsework for any joke. And it didn't have to be a joke, either. The joke might be just the cover for a more sinister activity -- hash! If that were the case, why call attention to it with funny-businc#s? But what hurt was the girl's being mixed up in it. He could take a rib from Charley, for instance, but the girl was practically a stranger -- unfortuiutrly. Women could be cruel, as his inoihor had his mother's last year in the hospital and winced. She had sacrificed so much for him; and yet, wa.s it really l)etier to be a free bachelor than an old family man like Charley? 'Iheie wasn't anything the matter with Alice that he could see. Charley loved her; that was plain. Tortight should solve the thing, once and for all. Ih' left the plant, speaking to everyone he met as he usually did. Then he .sneaked back in, with the guard's help, and hid in his own olliuwith the lights out. His phone rang and he almost answered it before he remembered that he was supposed to be gone. The building wa.s hy rto means deserted; probably there was someone working overiinie in more than one department, though the main business, for tlie day was finished. After a bit, tin phone rang again, and he ignored it. Waiting was hard. He couldn't read, so he let his mind wander: what a romantic old thing she was! He needed a haircut; he'd have to get one tomorrow, before the hair grew down over his ears. What a voice that girl had -- and those eyes! Would they get further work from Mugu? How could they contact other Government agencies? good; would it be better to try to wanted them, or to keep the old girl busy and work problems for others? Eventually, the former, though for the time being it might be better to continue as they were until the old girl was well known. Under present conditions, that shouldn't take -- what was that hissing noise, a radiator? He listened closely. Hiss, hiss, hiss. No, it was a rubbing sound, with a scrape and an occasional hollow thump. Not loud, but close at hand. The ventilating system -- how obvious, now! He watched a white hand disengage the catches and carefully lower the grill to his desk. A small figure in white coveralls wormed its way out of the opening, landed on its hands on top of his de.sk, kicked feet clear and cartwheeled to the floor with disdainful ease. A head-shake settled a long bob in place; who could do that? Virginia Hermosa, and no one else! She couldn't see him against the shine of the window. She turned meanwhile fastening a large sheet of paper on the bed of the curvetracer with tape. She put a blank card in the punching head, opened the door of the patching-panel cabinet and rearranged the patchcords there. What a lab assistant she would make! Wasted in Set-up; anyone could punch cards, with a little practice. Well, not anyone, but any mathematician could. How thoroughly she knew this machine! no Charley must have told her, or her brother, plenty! With the curve-tracer runnin" at slow speed, she held the stylus steadily on the words she had written on the paper; the coordinates brain, she derived the horrible equations corresponding to the script, and obligingly translated these in turn to punchings on the card. So simple, when you saw It. But who would think of putting a burglar alarm on an air-duct? She could go all over the building through the walls if she chose. She was small enough to get through the ducts easily, though the vertical sections must be tough, even for so athletic a girl. The punching head stopped. Virginia restored everything to its original condition, stuck tlte card she had punched into a pile of them, folded the paper and stuffed it into her pocket, and turned to go. Norm put on the lights. ing the air with her hands to keep her balance. He held his hand out for the paper. "No!" she said, her voice shrill with excitement. Wordlessly, he closed in on her, and after a brief struggle pulled the paper out of her pocket. It said, simply, "I love you." Norm looked at Virginia, who turned her head away. "I can't appreciate the joke just now, though I realize it must be very funny. Charley will enjoy it. But what a lot of trouble. Suppose you had got stuck in the duct, then what? Is it worth the risk? And the violation of security is very serious." "I'm going to quit anyway," she muttered. So deep a voice for such a small girl! "Why did you do it?" "Well, it all started as a joke. Charley said you were shy, and -- and -- well..." "I see. Natural enough, I suppose. And you pretended to be your brother on the phone." "No, I never said I was Vic," she denied, quickly. He was handling this all wrong; he wasn't getting anywhere. All this was just talk, evasive talk. "Charley hired you?" "Yes. When Vic left for basic training." "I see. Charley's quite a joker, and it was hard to refuse him." "It was kind of a joke at first, but you're overlooking something: he's very fond of you. He really is! He brags all the time about how smart you are, and what a nice guy." "Charley's married, and he wants to see me married, too." "And you don't like girls?" "Listen, you made that drawing, loo, and all the other stuff?" 'es." An idea raised its pretty head. "Listen, I've decided to be very angry about this. You've made a fool of me, and I'm not going to let you get away with it. Now, I know a place that's quiet, and has very good steaks; I'm going to t.ake you to supper and bawl you out. Better get into .street-clothes, and don't take all night." "Sorry, I couldn't possibly. Some other time, perhaps.' "Tonight. Now. Get going." "No. I have a date," "Break itl" "No! You may be my boss, and I may be a forward hussy, but tonight I'm going home, and you cant stop me!" How silly could you get? Suddenly he understood the way of a man with a maidj love was older than conversation, and they both saw and understood through and beyond any silly words. In fact, the silUer the words, the better! "That's what you think! You're going with me, or you're going to jail. They'll put you in a dark cell with the rats. They have their own specially-bred rats, you know." He leered, slyly. "You wouldn't dare!" He shrugged, elaborately, and turned to the phone. She darted past him to the door and he caught her, pulled her back out of the hall. She was surpriangly strong and determined, and she ducked when he kissed her. "That one was a mess, wasn't it?" he complained. She relaxed and began to laugh, and he joined her. She looked into his eyes a long moment, and pulled his head down, kissed him tenderly. "You don't give a girl much choice -- one big rat or a lot of little ones." "I'll give you no choice at all. I'll teach you to play tricks on me! Hurry up and change." "One of the girls keeps a semiformal in her locker. I can borrow  it and we could go dancing." "I don't dance. Never learned. Couldn't we just talk?" "We could, but we won't; you'll never learn any younger. You seem light enough on your feet Come on, it'll be fun!" "Tonight I can do anything! You take too long to change, and I'll tear the buildiilg down brick by brick with my bare hands, hear me?" "No, please don't! I'll hurry, I promise!" He waited impatiently at the door of the locker room. Now that he knew how to talk to a girl, he wanted to talk, and talk, and talk some more. He planned extravagant things to say when she came out, but when she appeared, smiling, he was struck dumb. She took his arm and they half ran, half skipped out of the building to his car. and for those reading IF for the first time who want to catch up on the good stories they've missed, we have managed to obtain a I limited number of copies of all earlier issues. There available at #c ehch, from the Circidation Dept., Qtiinn Publishing Co., Kingston, N. Y. If this story has a moral, it is: dont shoot too soon, or you may never know what you hit! By Leslie Perri tllustrated by Dick Rockwell  through the topmost branches the inky surface of a cold spring, of the tall trees in a silent, autumBehind an interlacing of nakedlynal forestDry leaves trembled nerwhite birches a young deer stoc vously as the dark tree trunks still with wide lacquered eyes fixed stirred in a thrust of the wind. A on him. Its tar-black nostrils shone in a quivering of fright and then like the wind it rustled momentarily on the forest floor of crackling leaves and disappeared. He breathed heavily with disappointment. He had transmitted fear, his own apprehensions, again. He moved from the protection of an overhanging rock. The ease with which he moved delighted him sensuously. This sportive exhilaration had to be curbed ; it made him less sensitive to the problem at hand. He had to communicate. There were obviously lower orders, mainly the winged beings, Some were tiny and fragile. They would approach and light on him with the unwarincss of the naive, trusting to their speed to escape from danger. From them he had no consciousness of intelligence. They buzzed and swarmed and hummed with monotonous idiocy. The larger winged beings were more interesting but they wore the drabness of the forest on their sleek wings. They would not come close but made inquiring sounds and swooped away at his approach. He had learned to move silently through the silent forest. He felt almost weightless and inflnitely agile and this delight he had to renounce for the time. He could walk erect, or run with incredible rapidity. And when he stood erect his body attained a new vitality and with his head above the lower woody vegetable growths he experienced a new dignity and regality. He was no petitioning refugee from the pitiless vise of unending cold. Here in this autumnal forest was the warmth and promise of spring, for him. Excitement made him warmer and more jubilant still. He had to communicate. But with whom? With which of these beings could he share his unbelievable adventure? He ran down a sloping floor of the forest and ran and ran, slipping and sliding on the leaves until he was breathless. And came to halt in a marshy spot with the spikes of dried vegetation towering about him. His heart beat with transcendental joy. He ached to babble of his happiness and then to relive his adventure in the telling of it to another intelligence the equal of his. He breathed more slowly and more slowly yet. Above the trees, caught in the web of branches, a gin cloud forms of purest white drifted slowly above the trap of the forest. And there, lower than the clouds, was the magnificence of a golden shadow wanned the tree trunks, the faces of the dry leaves, the soft, sucking black earth of the marsh and -- him. In this warmth he luxuriated, with every sensibility in his being. His body had starved for warmth. And while he stood thus, a long slithering form passed before him, describing in its movement across the moss and rocks and black leafmoulded earth resilient, graceful curves. It passed him without notice, conveying nothing, an impenetrable life form. And then, as suddenly, his muscles tightened and he withdrew reluctantly from the warmth of the sun. dried, tassel-topped grasses, feeling the scrape of sharp seedbearing burrs as they clung to him. In a closely woven burrow, hidden from the sun and the reach of the wind, he heard a new sound, a louder, sharper crackle in the forest. A new scent crowded into the burrow and overpowered him with a new sensation, a suffocating awareness of danger. He was cold again, and taut. The shadow from which he had escaped enclosed him again. This same deadly shadow of fear sapped his new vitality and destroyed his sensuous joy. There was tliat sharper sound, a baying shrillness that resounded through the forest quiet and hammered at the tree trunks and unresisting vegetation with an unreasoning in.sistencc. The echo of this new, insane voice of danger stirred him. He moved cautiously and quickly from the burrow and through the marsh. He was not erect now, but low and rapid-moving. He thought desperately of sun-ival now, not communication. Tliis howling, yapping being had found him out, scented him in the forest and he knew only that he had to escape. TTie forest floor rose gradually to greater and greater heights. He recognized the terrain and tlie character of this part of the forest. There was, at the summit, a sudden drop down a face of Irregular outcroppings of stone. And at the base of this lay a vast body of w'ater in which he could hide. He could manage the tall face of stone, hiding and blending into its cold greyness. The baying and yapping was closer and he moved even more rapidly. The chase seemed directed to him, not purpfoselcss. Behind the baying and shrill crying of this hunter was yet another will. And this chilled him with hopeless horror. He felt instinctively that he could communicate with this will, that this wa.s the intelligence he sought. But between it and him was this unleashed agent for his destruction. He ran more quickly and with a new sensation of weariness as the slope mounted. The vegetation was green here, and somewhat sparser. There were fewer places of refuge. At times he ran without the protection of any covering, only the moss and green ground vines underfoot. As he reached the summit he hc.'ird a new sound, a sharp undecipherable crack and whine overhead. When he had reached the top of the sharp rise, he stood erect for a moment, seeking the surest path for his descent of the sharp rock face. The body of water below gleamed wan#ily blue. The sun was a glorious, almost perfectly round entity, low in the sky. His body .straightened involuntarily, rose up in the warmth of the sun, darkly and strangely outlined against the unbroken blue of the sky. And then as the crack and whine of the gun sounded in the evening quiet, not once but twice, and inexpertly a third time, lus shape crumbled against the sky and he toppled from the clilT edge into the still blue of the lake below. The man breathed heavily as he came up the hill. He was redfaced from exertion and frustration. He was heavy and clumsy in the perfection Abercrombie and Fitch had tailored into his hunting clothes. He held his rifle, an expensive and aesthetically beautiful instrument of destruction, like a blunt, ugly club. He stood at the edge of the clUT and looked down. There was nothing. Only the serenity of the early evening, the unanswering quiet of the lake, the ridge of mountains, the darkening sky. "Now what in the hell was that?" the man muttered. The dog, beside him, shivered and sat down suddenly. Its howl was unbidden, imdirected, and it filled the forest with unrest metal some fifty feet in diaminstantaneously, and even the eter, it rests on stubby, retractelecto-magnctic waves that ablelegs beside the buildings of carry power travel at up to the port center. Carriers speed # miles per second... to and fro from refrigerated This is a quotation from warehouses, carrying cargo to "The Sky's No Limit," an artithe conveyer lift built into the cle in the March # issue of ship's base. The Sooner Magazine which "The load consists of #is published by the University odd men and women, each of Oklahoma Association. It frozen solid in a coffin-like was written by Dwight V. block of chemical ice. Living Swain, old-time science fiction organic matter is the one thing writer and instructor in jourthe duplicator units can't repronalism at that school. Mr. duce ... Swain sneers at rockets but says "Now the last of the icewe'll have space travel by #; blocks is aboard, the dozen-odd the key inventions will be a crewmen at their stations, the "wireless power transmitter," a hatches sealed. The sphere "contragravitational device," floats for a moment, barely off and a "transmutational duplithe ground, while the stubby cator" -- this last being an amstabilizing legs retract. Then, swer to all problems of supply, slowly at first (in order to Far-fetched? Maybe. But avoid the heat of atmospheric though we're betting on rockets, friction) it soars into the sky. Mr. Swain just might have No one knows for sure how fast something there. (Continued from page #) done to do it in another way. RuizSanchez raised his hand. Immediately Chtexa walked toward the ship. "I wish you a good journey," the Lithian said, "wherever you may go. I wish also that your road may lead back to this world at some future time. I have brought you the gift that I sought before to give you, if the moment is appropriate." Cleaver had straightened up and wa.s now glaring suspiciously at the Lithian. Since he did not understand the language, he was unable to find anything to which he could object; he simply stood and radiated unvvelcomcness. "Thank you," Ruiz-Sanchez said. This creature of Satan made him miserable, made him feel intolerably in the wrong. How could Chtexa know -- ? T he lithian was holding out to him a small vase, scaled at the top and provid("d with two gently looping handles. The gleaming porcelain of which it had been made still carried inside it, under the glaze, the fire which had formed it; it was iride.scent, alive with long quivering festoons and plumes of rainbows, and the form as a whole would have made any potter of Greece abandon his trade in shame. It was so beautiful that one could imagine no use for it at all. Certainly one could not fill it with left-over beets and put it in the refrigerator. Besides, it would take up too much space. "This is my gift," Chtexa said. "It is the finest container yet to come from Xorcdeshch Gton; the material of which it is made contains traces of every element to be found on Liihia, even including iron, and thus, as you see, it shows the colors of every shade of emotion and of thought. On Eartli, it will tell Earthmen much of Lithia." "We will be unable to analyze it," Ruiz-Sanchez said. "It Is too perfect to destroy, too perfect even to open." "Ah, but we wish you to open it," Chte.xa said. "For it contains our other gift." "Another gift?" "Yes, a more important one. A fertilized, living egg of our species. T;ike it with you. By the time you rcaih Earth, it will be ready to hatch, and to grow up with you in your strange and marvelous W'orld. The container is the gift of all of us; but the child inside is my gift, for it is ray child." Ruiz-Sanchez took the vase in trembling hands, as tliough he expected it to explode. It shook with subdued flame in his grip. "Goodbye," Clitexa said. He turned and walked away, back toward the entrance to the path. Cleaver watched him go, .shading his eyes, "Now what was that all about?" the physicist said. "The Snake couldn't have made a bigger thing of it if he'd been handing you his own head on a platter. And all the dme it was only a pot!" Rulz-Sanchcz did not answer. He could not have spoken even to himself. He turned away and began to ascend the cleats, cradling the vase carefully under one elbow. While he was still climbing, a shadow passed rapidly over the hull -- Cleaver's last crate, being borne aloft into the hold by a crane. Then he was in the airlock, with the rising whine of the ship's generators around him. A long shaft of light from outside was cast ahead of him, picking out his shadow on the deck. After a moment, a second shadow overlaid his own: Cleaver's. Then the light dimmed and went out. The airlock door slammed. (Continuid from pagt #) A Red Cross ship landed, its ports grating open. Dollies shuttled across to it, loading injured men. Two relief workers appeared. They opened the door to Hull's car, getting in the back. 'Drive us to town." They sank down, exhausted. "We got to get more help. Hurry it." "Sure." Hull started the car again, gained speed. "How did it happen?" Julia asked one of the grim-faced exhausted men, who dabbed automatically at the cuts on liis face and neck. "Earthquake." "But why? Didn't they build it so -- " "Big quake." The man shook his head wearily. "Nobody expected. Total loss. Thousands of cars. Tens of thousands of people." The other worker grunted. "An act of God." Hull stiffened suddenly. His eye.i flickered. "What is it?" Julia asked him. "Notlung." "Are you sure? Is something wrong?" Hull said nothing. He was deep in thought, his face a mask of startled, growing horror. Dear Sir : Your issue of March, #, contained an article entitled "Galileo the Persecuted." That Galileo was persecuted is true, but as to why he was perf?ecuted your author seems to be mistaken. #. It was not heresy to teach the Copemican theory. #. The question revolves around, not the subject matter of his teaching, but how he taught it. In the st place the work of Copernicus, "De Revolutionibus Orbium Caelestium," which was published many years before Galileo, owed its publication to the financial support of two Catholic Cardinals and was dedicated to Wstorical fact. Would a Pope -- any Pope -- allow a heretical work to be dedicated to him? Second, Galileo taught the Copemican theory as an established fact, not a theory. Newton (#) proved the theory, not Galileo. One other point: Galileo, in supporting his theory, rejected the tradidonal interpretation of some of the texts of the Bible. For this he was pimished, not for trying to advance science or for being so intellectually in advance of his time. Every issue has two sides ; maybe the author would like to investigate my side. Let him review Cardinal Nicholas of Cusa (#), Canon Copernicus (#), and an article on this subject by Hilaire Belloc in "Difficulties," published #, London, by Eyre and Spottiswoode. -- Thomas F. Hardacre # Myrtle St. Lawrence, Mass; Dear Editor: I dislike writing letters of praise, but I am of the opinion that one is in order for the March issue. I read a lot of science fiction: good, bad, indifferent, and sometimes -- stinking. I usually write of the stinking issues of magazines, so it pains me deeply to write a letter such as this. Ivar Jorgenson's Deadly City was better than good, and likewise for Kenneth O'Hara's Thy Name is Woman. The overall effect which everyone I know got from the lastmentioned story is the one I believe the author intended : a good "sick" feeling. There are three other stories in the March issue which I consider outstanding: Bryce Walton's The Victor (although I cannot conceive of any victory, other than death, being possible; overthrow of "the system" being impossible), Frank Quattrochi's The Sword (well-written, with no weaknesses in plotting), and Waldo T. Boyd's The Salesman, a neat, well-written bit of subtle humor so rare in science-fiction. I'd like to conpliment your art editor, Ed Valigursky, for his fine choico of story illustrations. The cover-picture, and the two blackand-white pictures inside, are excellent and in the best taste. Your magaaine make-up, by the way, was discussed in the Department of Journalism (rf the University of Houston as an outstanding example of good make-up. # Schley St. Houston #, Texas Gentlemen : I should first like to compliment you on the breadth and conceptual design of the inside cover drawings in the March issue of IF. However, to be a bit technical; granting that the invader rocket would have wings and control surfaces for navigation in an atmosphere, and granting further the air intakes since the craft might on occasion change over to jet operation -- it is not conceivle that the homing missiles would have airfoils of any nature. Since the missiles are obviously designed for operation on and around an airless world, airfoils as lifting or control surfaces would be totally useless and superfluous. If guidance ir to be achieved, reaction vanes in the exhaust stream or rocket steering nozzles must be employed. But the drawings are lovely. -- J. R. Schoenbaum Chief Engineer, Airlectron Inc. P. O. Box #, Caldwell, N. J. Gentlemen: Curiosity impels an inquiry about my story in the March # issue of IF. Why did you change the name? I am not refering to the name of the story, for in all justice I have is a better title than the one I submitted. I mean why did you change the name of the author? Does Deeming have a nicer ring to it than Deming? -- Richard Deming # Central Ave. Dunkirk, N. Y. Well, yes, since you ask. But we do apologize. Dear Sir: I would like to make a suggestion, hoping you will be able to adopt it. Cotild you persuade the author Kenneth O'Hara to write a sequel to his "Thy Name is Woman"? The possibilities for such a story are many. The theme of that novelette, as you know from recent newspapers, is not so extraordinary, but the build up could be made so. I do sincerely.hope that this suggestiem can be worked, and believe me I shall await each edition. -- John H. Hayes # Main St. Bethel, Conn. lts safe to say Kenneth O'Hara will appear in these pages again, though any sequel must be at least as good as the original to be accepted, and that isn't always easy. As for the timing of "Thy Name is Woman," it was sheer coincidence; science is catching up with all kinds of science fiction! Dear Sir: I like Ed Valigursky's illustrations but how in the hell can his spaceships land? -- B('rt McDougle Belpre, Ohio The inude covers of this issue show (a) a spaceship landing and (b) a spaceship landed. Any other questions? Dear Mr. Quinn: I should like to congratulate you. On what? On not being stampeded in a blind panic, into making a horrid thing out of your mag, but instead, hewing to the line and using discretion and discrimination and excellence as criteria for selecting the stories you print. What do I mean by "thing"? Well, it's that nauseous combination: big-name, spillane-lonnigan, yellow-joumal-hollyw'ood thing that so many editors seem to think they have to have or go on the rocks, heck knows why. Please stay like you are, huh? Don't catch that squirrelly virus. If you stay like you are you'll be thriving when the rest are just a memory in the Congressional Library files. Say, if you're not careful, you're liable to become the best mag. And that's some statement, from a fan who has been firmly loyal to Astounding, since volume one number one! # East #th St. Mishawaka, Ind. Thank you. Phyla. We're blushing slightly, but you summed up our present and future editorial policy so well ive couldn't resist printing your Utter. Gentlemen : Willy Ley ha.s accepted our invitation to be the guest of honor and principal speaker at the I #th World Science Fiction Convention, which will be held at the Bellevue Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia over the Labor Day weekend this year. Willy's scientific accomplishments are many and varied, and his talks are always delightfully entertaining, so this is sure to be a worthwhile event for fans and readers. Willy's talk will climax an exceptionally interesting program; we've made a special effort to surpass last year's Chicago convention and think we've succeeded, though it wasn't easy. Memberships or further information may be obtained by writing Box #, Philadelphia #, Pennsylvania. -- Milton A. Rothman the plonet in fact! The sotellite is believed to have an atmosphe'e, and it is else probable that water in o pcrpetuolly trorer stote iS present The man m the foreground obeve is compiling data, wnile the other two gozc at the cloud-cove red planet end its unique rings. Dfowing by Ed Voltgursky'  j ) i J rhftjt I "   exploration tour of the other members of rhe Solor fam ly. Though still at a distance of sevcrcl thousand miles t has just started its engines to swerve into its braking orbit around the planet. Far "below," it is daylight over Asia and the South Pacific. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg: Surveying a Dying Sun by Arthur Dekker Savage IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. a yright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office ol publication, # Lord Street, alo. New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription S#. # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere # Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine arc fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale November #th between science fiction and automobiles. Crank up a fantasy fan and in a lot of cases he'll rattle on all afternoon about Maseratis, multiple carburetors, Jaguars, torsion bars, Gordinis, rear engines, horsepower-weight ratios, Ferraris, the Le Mans race, chopping and channeling, Porschcs, acceleration figures, economy figures, Bugattis, fiberglass bodies and the question of steam power. Why? I don't quite know, but I've studied enough case histories to be sure of my ground. Love of speculative fiction and love of automobiles as something more than just basic transportation somehow go together -- two hearts pierced by a single chrome-plated arrow. Writing on classic cars in True's Automobile Yearbook some time ago, Eugene Jaderquist mentioned that the car collector's other hobbies are almost invariably "music and science fiction." He gave no further explanation. This may have been because he had a hard enough time defining what a classic car is, and why one large, old luxurious vehicle is a classic while another isn't. Classic fans are real fanatics; they aren't even remotely interested in any other kind of car! For those in the audience who think an automobile is just a way of getting from one place to another (actually it is at least a fine form of entertainment and sport, and in some cases a complete way of life), I'll demolish one obvious answer. The thrill of traveling at high speeds has nothing to do with it. Concepts of vast size are much more typical of science fiction than concepts of high speed (fascination with the idea of getting from place to place virtually instantaneously strikes me as a slightly different horse). And a great many auto fans are much more interested in a car's size, shape, inner mechanisms andor rarity than what it will do when the throttle is floorboarded. It doesn't seem to be the hot rodders who are stf bugs. It would be closer to the truth to say that the people in question stem from the ranks of the mechanically inclined with a hunger for things unique. But I'm not sure that's the whole story. rocketeers may have the opportunity to satisfy both tastes at once, if a fellow named Richard Arbib has his way. This gentleman is well known in the auto industry for his startling designs, which sometimes turn into real cars as in the case of the Packard Pan-American. And in his regular column in a recent issue of a new magazine tersely called Cars, he said: "The effect of unveiling the mysteries of deep outer space, the contemplation of travel at the speed of light and perhaps even a step into another dimension, should be the most vibrant inspiration to car designers today." Arbib went on to tell how he asked his students at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, to design vehicles from other worlds. I admit that when he said the instructions demanded that these "semi-abstract" vehicles "express weird, exciting new forms," the pleasure I'd felt at first thought of the project began to diminish slightly. On top of that, he insisted that "the designer... must learn to use the black shadows of the moon to advantage," without a hint of how this was to be done. Maybe he meant that cars should be made of dark-green cheese -- but I sometimes suspect that Detroit is doing that already. On the subject of applying features of these other-world vehicles to today's automotive styling problems, however, Arbib relieved my fears a bit. "The problem amounts to far more than including a few weird shapes of conical nature or tacking on sweeping appendages to form what appear to be shark-like mutations." There was more in the same comparatively realistic vein. Then : "The transparent bubbles of today's jet plane canopies were found long ago in the rocket ship stories. Hand controls have given way to pushbutton controls so, in projecting design, it's logical for pushbutton controls to give way to mind controls." Goody! I've always wanted a "space car," as Arbib kept referring to his futuristic jalopy, with mind controls. It would allow no-armed driving, for one thing -- an idea that has infinite possibilities. Better, it would give the poor backseat driver an even break; she -- it's usually a she -- could put her mind to work too and perhaps even succeed in making the family spacer go in two directions at once. And if those mind controls were sensitive enough, the lucky, liberated driver could at last sit comfortably at home with a long cool drink and let the car take its usual Sunday afternoon tour of the # mile-an-hour superhighways with nobody in it. Arbib boiled it down to this: "This does not mean that all space cars must look like rocket ships on wheels. As a matter of fact, wheels might be the first thing to go!" Me? Well, Maude, my old Chevrolet, will have to last me for a while yet. But I have several projects in mind. The one I cherish most fondly involves buying a little German Volkswagen -- one of the most functional cars ever built, with a jewel of an air-cooled engine in the rear, but also one of the ugliest. I figure the original body would be easy to remove and would make an ideal doghouse. And with a simple aerodynamic body of fiberglass or something equally light replacing the old one, that baby would go! What are you driving? -- Its Remember the story of the last man on Earth who heard a knock on his door? Fiyatil was in the same position, with the difference that he had chosen it deliberately. And when the "knock" -- an alarm bell -- came, that was different too... Illustrated by Kelly Freas M AY #, # -- Well, I did it! It was close, but fortunately I have a very suspicious nature. My triumph, my fulfillment was almost stolen from me, but I was too clever for them. As a result. I am happy to note in this, my will and testament, I nov r begin my last year of life. No, let me be accurate. This last year of life, the year that I will spend in an open tomb, really began at noon today. Then, in the second sub-basement of the Museum of Modern Astronautics, I charged a dial for the third successive time and got a completely negative response. That meant that I, Fiyatil, was the only human alive on Earth. What a struggle I have had to achieve that distinction! Well, it's all over now, I'm fairly certain. Just to be on the safe side, I'll come down and check the anthropometcr every day or so for the next week, but I don't think there's a chance in the universe that I'll get a positive reading. I've had my last, absolutely my final and ultimate battle with the forces of righteousness -- and I've won. Left in secure, undisputed possession of my coffin, there's nothing for me to do now but enjoy myself. And that shouldn't be too hard. After all, I've been planning the pleasures for years! Still, as I tugged off my suit of into the sunlight, I couldn't help thinking of the others. Gruzcman. Prejaut and possibly even Mo-Diki. They'd have been here with me now if only they'd had a shade less academic fervor, a touch more of intelligent realism. Too bad in a way. And yet it makes my vigil more solemn, more glorious. As I sat down on the marble bench between Rozinski's heroic statues of the Spaceman and Spacewoman, I shrugged and dismissed the memories of Gruzeman, Perjaut and Mo-Diki. They had failed. I hadn't. I leaned back, relaxing for the first time in more than a month. My eyes swept over the immense bronze figures towering above me, two pieces of sculpture yearning agonizingly for the stars, and I burst into a chuckle. The absolute incongruity of my hiding place hit me for the first time -- imagine, the Museum of Modern Astronautics! Multiplied by the incredible nervous tension, the knuckle-biting fear of the past five days, the chuckle bounced up and down in my throat and became a giggle, then a splutter and finally a reverberating, chestheaving laugh that I couldn't stop. It brought all the deer out of the museum park to stand in front of the marble bench where Fiyatil, the last man on Earth, choked and coughed and wheezed and cackled at his senile accomplishment. I don't know how long the fit might have held me, but a cloud, merely in the course of its regular duties as a summer cloud, happened to slide in front of the sun. That did it. I stopped laughing, as if a connection had been cut, and glanced upward. The cloud went on, and the sunlight poured down as warmly as ever, but I shivered a bit. Two pregnant young does came a little closer and stood watching as I massaged my neck. Laughter had given it a crick. "Well, my dears," I said, tossing them a quotation from one of my favorite religions, "it would seem that in the midst of life we are at last truly in death." They munched at me impassivelyM AY #, # -- I have spent the last two days putting myself and my supplies in order and making plans for the immediate future. Spending a lifetime in sober preparation for the duties of custodianship is one thing. Finding suddenly that you have become the custodian, the last of your sect as well as your race -- and yet, peculiarly, the fulfillment of them both -- that is quite another thing. I find myself burning with an insane pride. And a moment later. I turn cold with the incredible, the majestic responsibility that I face. Food will be no problem. In the commissary of this one institution, there are enough packaged meals to keep a man like myself well-fed for ten years, let alone twelve months. And wherever I go on the planet, from the Museum of Buddhist Antiquities in Tibet to the Panorama of Political History in Sevastopol, I will find a similar plenty. Of course, packaged meals are packaged meals: somebody else's idea of what my menu should be. Now that the last Affirmer has gone, taking with him his confounded austerity, there is no longer any need for me to be a hypocrite. I can at last indulge my taste for luxury and bathe my tongue in gustatory baubles. Unfortunately I grew to manhood under Affirmer dominion and the hypocricies I learned to practice in sixty cringing years have merged with the essential substance of my character. I doubt, therefore, that I will be preparing any meals ol fresh tood from the ancient recipes. And then too, meals of fresh food would involve the death of creatures that arc currently alive and enjoying themselves. This seems a bit silly under the circumstances... Nor did I need to put any of the automatic laundries into operation. Yet I have. Why clean my clothes, I asked myself, when I can discard a tunic the moment it becomes slightly soiled and step into a newly manufactured garment, still stifT in memory of the machine matrix whence it came? Habit told me why I couldn't. Custodian concepts make it impossible for me to do what an Affirmer in my position would find easiest: shrug out of the tunic on a clear patch of ground and leave it lying behind me like a huge, brightly colored dropping. On the other hand, much Affirmer teaching that my conscious mind has been steadfastly rejecting for decades, I find to my great annoyance, has seeped into the unconscious osmoticallv. The idea of deliberately destroying anything as functional, if relatively unesthetic, as a dirty Tunic, Male, Warm-Season, Affirmer Ship-Classification No. #, appalls me -- even against my will. Over and over again, I tell myself that Affirmer Ship-Classification Numbers now mean nothing to me. Less than nothing. They are as meaningless as cargo symbols on the Ark to the stevedores who loaded it, the day after Noah sailed. Yet I step into a onc-seatcr flyball for a relaxing tour of the museum grounds and something in my mind says: No. #. I close my teeth upon a forkful of well-seasoned Luncheon Protein Component and note that I am chewing Ship-Classification Numbers # through #. I even remind myself that it is a category to be brought aboard among the last, and only when the shipboard representative of the Ministry of Survival and Preservation has surrendered his command to the shipboard representative of the Ministry of The Journey. Not a single Affirmer walks the Earth at the moment. Together with their confounded multiplicity of government bureaus -- including the one in which all people professing Custodianism had to be registered, the Ministry of Antiquities and Useless Relics -- they are now scattered among a hundred or so plantctary systems in the galaxy. But all this seems to matter not a bit to my idiotically retentive mind which goes on quoting texts memorized decades ago for Survival Placement Examinations long since superseded and forgotten by those in authority. They are so efficient, the Affirmers, so horribly, successfully efficient! As a youngster, I confided to my unfortunately loquacious comrade, Ru-Sat, that I had begun creative painting on canvas in my leisure hours. Immediately, my parents, in collaboration with my recreational adviser, had me volunteered into the local Children's Extra Work for Extra Survival Group, where I was assigned to painting numbers and symbols on packing cases. "Not pleasure but persistence, persistence, persistence will preserve the race of Man," I had to repeat from the Affirmer catechism before I was allowed to sit down to any meal from that time on. Later, of course, I was old enough to register as a conscientious Custodian. "Please," my father choked at me when I told him, "don't come around any more. Don't bother us. I'm speaking for the entire family, Fiyatil, including your uncles on your mother's side. You've decided to become a dead man: that's your business now. Just forget you ever had parents and relatives -- and let us forget we had a son." This meant I could free myself from Survival chores by undertaking twice as much work with the microfilm teams that traveled from museum to museum and archeological site to skyscraper city. But still there were the periodic Survival Placement Exams which everyone agreed didn't apply to Custodians but insisted we take as a gesture of good will to the society which was allowing us to follow our consciences. Exams which necessitated putting aside a volume entitled Religious Design and Decoration in Temples of the Upper Nile for the dreary, dingy, well-thumbed ShipClassification Manual and Uniform Cargo Stowage Guide. I had given up the hope of being an artist myself, but those ugly little decimals took up time that I wished to spend contemplating the work of men who had lived in less fanatic and less frenzied centuries. They still do! So powerful is habit that now that I have no questions on dehydration to answer ever again, I still find myself doing the logarithmic work necessary to finding out where a substance is packed once its water is removed. It is horribly frutrating to be mired after all in an educational system from which I turned completely away! involved in at the moment probably don't help very much. Yet it is very important for me to pick up enough information from the elementary educatories in this museum, for example, to insure my not having to worry about the possibility of a flyball breakdown over a jungle area. I'm no technician, no trouble-shooter. I have to learn instead how to choose equipment in good working order and how to start operating it without doing any damage to delicate components. This technological involvement irritates me. Outside, the abandoned art of # years beckons -- and here I sit, memorizing dull facts about the power plants of worker robots, scrutinizing blueprints of the flyballs' antigrav screws, and acting for all the world like an Affirmer captain trying to win a commendation from the Ministry of The Journey before he blasts off. Yet it is precisely this attitude that is responsible for my being here now, instead of sitting disconsolately aboard the Affirmer scout ship with Mo-Diki, Gruzeman and Prejaut. While they exulted in their freedom and charged about the planet like creaky old colts, I made for the Museum of Modern Astronautics and learned how to operate and read an anthropometer blue. I hated to waste the time, hut I couldn't forget how significant to an Affirmer, especially a modern one, is the concept of the sacredncss of human life. They had betrayed us once; they were bound to come back to make certain that the betrayal left no loose ends in the form of Custodians enjoying fulfillment. I was right then, and I know I am right now -- but I get so bored with the merely useful! Speaking of the anthropometer, I had a nasty shock two hours ago. The alarm went of! -- and stopped. I scurried downstairs to it, shaking and hoping desperately that I wouldn't blow myself up in the course of using it a second time. By the time I got to the machine, it had stopped caterwauling. I charged the all-directional dial over ten times and got no response. Therefore, according to the anthropometer manual, nothing human was moving about anywhere in the entire Solar System. I had keyed the machine to myself clectrocephalographically so that I wouldn't set off the alarm. Yet the alarm had gone off, indisputably recording the presence of humanityother than myself, however temporary its existence had been. It was very puzzling. My conclusion is that some atmospheric disturbance or faulty connection inside the anthropometer set the machine off. Or possibly, in my great joy over being left behind a few days ago, I carelessly damaged the apparatus. I heard the Affirmer scout ship radio the news of the capture of my colleagues to a mother vessel waiting beyond Pluto: I know I'm the sole survivor on Earth. Besides, if it had been skulking Affirmers who set the alarm off, their own anthropometer would have detected me at the same time, since I had been walking about unprotected by the insulating effect have been surrounded by flyball crews and I'd have been caught almost immediately. No, I cannot believe I have anything more to fear from Affirmers. They have satisfied themselves with their last-moment return of two days ago, I am positive. Their doctrine would forbid any further returns, since they would be risking their own lives. After all, there are only # days left -- at most -- before the sun goes nova. M AY #, # -- I am deeply disturbed. In fact, I am frightened. And the worst of it is, I do not know of what. All I can do now is wait. Yesterday, I left die Museum of Modern Astronautics for a preliminary tour of the world. I planned to spend two or three weeks hopping about in my flyball before I made any decision about where I would stay for the bulk of my year. My first error was the choice of a first destination. Italy. It is very possible that, if my little problem had not come up, I would have spent eleven months there before going on with my preliminary survey. The Mediterranean is a dangerous and sticky body of water to anyone who has decided that, his own talents being inadequate or aborted, he may most fittingly spend his life cherishing the masterpieces presented to humanity by other, much more fortunate individuals. I went to Ferrara first, since the marshy, reclaimed plain outside the city was a major Affirmcr launching site. I lingered a little while at one of my favorite buildings, the Palazzo dei Diamanti, shaking my head as helplessly as ever at the heavy building stones of which it is constructed and w'hich are cut and faceted like so many enormous jewels. To my mind, the city itself is a jewel, now somewhat dulled, that sparkled madly in the days of the Este court. One little city, one tiny, arrogant court -- I would so happily have traded them for the two billion steadfastly boorish Affirmcrs. Over sixty years of almost unchallenged political control, and did an entire planctful of them produce a single competitor for a Tasso or an Ariosto? And then I realized that at least one native Ferraran would have felt at ease in the world that . has just departed from me, its last romantic. I remembered that Savonarola had been born in Ferrara... The plain outside Ferrara also reminded me of the dour Dominican. The launching field, stretching away for quite a few flat miles, was strewn with enough possessions discarded at the last moment to make a truly towering Bonfire of Vanities. But what pathetic vanities! Here, a slide rule that some ship's commander had ordered thrown out before takeoff because the last inspection had revealed it to be in excess of what the Ship-Classification Manual listed as the maximum number of slide rules necessary for a vessel of that size. There, a mimeographed collection of tally sheets that had been dropped out of the closing air lock after every last item had been checked off as per regulations -- one check before the item by the Ministry of Survival and Preservation, and one check after the item by the Ministry of The Journey. Soiled clothing, somewhat worn implements, empty fuel and food drums lay about on the moist ground. Highly functional articles all, that had somehow come in the course of time to sin against function -- and had fallen swiftly from use. And, surprisingly, an occasional doll, not looking very much like a doll to be sure, but not looking like anything that had an objective purpose either. Looking about me at the squalid debris dotted so rarely with sentiment, I wondered how many parents had writhed with shame when, despite their carefully repeated admonitions and advance warnings, the last search had discovered something in the recesses of a juvenile tunic that could only be called an old toy -- or, worse yet, a keepsake. I remembered what my recreational adviser had said on that subject, long years ago. "It's not that we believe that children shouldn't have toys, Fiyatil; we just don't want them to become attached to any particular toy. Our race is going to leave this planet that's been its home from the beginning. We'll be able to take with us only such creatures and objects as are usable to make other creatures and objects which we'll need for sustenance wherever we come down. And because we can't carry more than so much weight in each ship, we'll have to select from among the usable objects those which are essential. "We won't take anything along because it's pretty, or because a lot of people swear by it, or because a lot of people think they need it. We'll take it along only because nothing else will do an important job so well. That's why I come to your home every month or so to inspect your room, to make certain that your bureau drawers contain only new things, that you're not falling into dangerous habits of sentimentality that can lead only to Custodianism. You've got far too nice a set of folks to turn into that kind of person." Nonetheless, I chuckled to myself, I had turned into that kind of person. Old Tobletej had been right: the first step on the road to ruin had been bureau drawers crammed with odds and ends of memory. The twig on which had sat the first butterfly I'd ever caught, the net with which I'd caught him, and the first butterfly himself. The wad of paper that a certain twelve-year-old lady had thrown at me. A tattered copy of a real printed book -- no facsimile broadcast, this, but something that had once known the kiss of type instead of the hot breath of electrons. The small wooden model of Captain Karma's starship, Man's Hope, which an old spacchand at the Lunar Line launching field had given me along with much misinformation... Those paunc hy bureau drawers! How my parents and teachers had tried to teach me neatness and a hatred of possessions! And here w'as I, now grown into man's estate, smug over my possession of a quantity of artistic masterpieces the like of which no Holy Roman Emperor, no Grand Khan, would have dared to dream about. started looking for the launching site robots. They were scattered about, almost invisible in the unimportant garbage of the spaceship field. After loading the ship, they had simply wandered about until they had run down. I activated them once more and set them to cleaning the field. This is something I will do in every one of the two hundred or so launching sites on Earth, and this is the chief reason I have been studying robotics. I want Earth to look as pretty as possible when she dies. I never could be an Affirmcr, I am afraid; I form strong attachments. Feeling as I did, I just couldn't continue on my trip without taking the quickest, the most cursory glance at Florence. Naturally. But as I should have expected, I got drunk on oil and marble and metalwork. Florence was empty of Florentines, but the glorious galleries were still there. I walked across the fine Ponte Vecchio, the only one of the famous Arno bridges to have escaped destruction in the Second World War. I came to Giotto's campanile and the baptistery doors by Ghiberti and I began to feel despair, desperation. I ran to the Church of Santa Croce to see Giotto's frescoes and the Convent of St. Mark's for Fra Angelico. What good was one year, what could I see of even a single city like this in a bare twelve months? I could view, I could gallop by, but what would I have time to sec? I was in the Boboli gardens trying frantically to decide whether to look up Michelangelo's David which I'd seen once before, or some Donatello which I hadn't, when the alarms went off. Both of them. The day before I'd left, I'd put together a small anthropometer tnat had originally been developed for locating lost colonists in the Venusian swamps. It was based on an entirely different design than the big machine that I'd found in the Hall of Gadgets. Since the circuits were unalike. and they had been planned for use in entirely different atmospheres, I believed they would serve as excellent checks on each other. I'd set the alarms to the frequency of my flyball communicator and had left the museum fairly confident that the only thing that could make both anthropometers go off would be the presence of a man other than myself. I flew back to the Museum, feeling very confused. Both pieces of equipment had responded the same way. The alarm had gone off, indicating the sudden materialization of Man on the planet. Then, when the stimulus had disappeared, both alarms had stopped. No matter howmany times I charged die directional dials on each anthropometer, there was not the faintest suspicion of mankind within their extreme range, which is a little under one- half of a light-year. The initial confusion has given w-ay to a strong feeling of discomfort. Something is very wrong here on Earth, something different than the sun getting ready to explode in a year. Possibly I have the nontechnician's blind faith in a piece of apparatus which I don't fully understand, but I don't believe that the anthropometers should be acting this way unless something really abnormal is occurring. It has pleased me to look upon this planet as an ocean-going ship about to sink, and myself as the gallant captain determined to go down with her. Abruptly, I feel as if the ship were beginning to act like a w'hale. I know what I must do. I'll move a supply of food down to the Hall of Gadgets and sleep right under the anthropometers. The alarm usually lasts for a minute or two. I can leap to my feet, charge the alldirection dials and get enough of a reading right then to know exactly where the stimulus is coming from. Then I will pop into my flyball and investigate. It's really very simple. Only, I don't like it M AY #, # -- I feel thoroughly ashamed of myself as only an old man who has been seeing ghosts in the graveyard should be ashamed. That, in fact, is the only excuse I can make to myself. I have, I suppose, been thinking too much about death recently. The coming extinction of Earth and the Solar System, my death which is inevitably involved with it, the counted species, the death of proud old cities that Man has reared and occupied for centuries... Well, perhaps the association with ghosties and beasties and other strange phenomena is understandable. When the alarms went off again this morning, I got a directional reading. My destination was the Appalachian Mountain region in eastern North America. The moment I got out of the flyball and took in the pale azure fog covering the cave mouth in front of me, I began to understand -- and feel ashamed. Through the fog, which thinned in one place and thickened in others as I watched, I could see several bodies lying on the floor of the cave. Obviously, one of them had to be alive for the anthropometer to have reacted as soon as enough to make the presence of a human mind detectable. I walked around to the back of the cave and found no exit. I went back to the museum in the flyball and returned with the necessary equipment. I deactivated the walked inside cautiously. The interior of the cave, which had evidently been furnished as a domestic and comfortable hideout, was completely wrecked. Somebody had managed to get an activator as which had not yet been given any particular shape and which, therefore, was about as stable as hydrogen and oxygen -- if it is permissable to use a metaphor from chemistry to illustrate negative force-field been activated as a sort of curtain across the mouth of the cave and had blown up immediately. But, since the activator was still operating and the entrance was fairly narrow, it continued to function as a curtain of insulating negative force, a curtain which had holes in it through which one could occasionally "peek" by means of the anthropometer at the people imprisoned inside. There were three bodies near the entrance, two male and one female, rather youthful-looking. From the quantity and type of statuary on the walls of the cave, it was easy to deduce that these people had belonged to one of the many numerous religious Custodian groups, probably the Fire in the Heavens cult. When, in the last week of the exodus, the Affirmcrs had denounced the Crohiik Agreement and stated that the Affirmation of Life required that even those who didn't Affirm had to be protected against themselves, these people had evidently taken to the mountains. Evading the subsequent highly effective search, they had managed to stay hidden until the last great vessel left. Then, suspecting as I had that at least one scout ship would return for a final round-up, they had investigated the properties of the anthropometer and found out about the only insulator, berrillit blue. Unfortunately, they had not found out enough. Deep in the rear of the cave, a body twisted brokenly to meet me. It was a young woman. My first reaction was absolute astonishment at the fact that she was still alive. The explosion seemed to have smashed her thoroughly below the waist. She had crawled from the cave mouth to the interior where the group had stored most of their food and water. As I teetered, momentarily undecided whether to leave her and get medication and blood plasma from a hospital in the region or to risk moving her immediately, she rolled over on her back. She had been covering a year-old infant with her body, evidently unblow again. And somehow, in spite of what must have been tremendous agony, she had been feeding the child. I bent down and examined the baby. He was quite dirty and covered with his mother's blood, but otherwise unharmed. I picked him up and, in answer to the question in the woman's eyes, I nodded. "He'll be all right," I said. She started what niav have been a nod in reply and stopped halfway through to die. I examined her carefully and, I will admit, a shade frantically. There was no pulse -- no heartbeat. I took the child back to the museum and constructed a sort of play pen for him out of empty telescope sections. Then I went back to the cave with three robots and had the people buried. I admit the gesture was superfluous, but it wasn't only a matter of neatness. However fundamental our differences, we were all of Custodian persuasion, generally speaking. It somehow made me feel as if I were snapping my fingers in the face of the entire smug Affirmation to respect their Firc-inHcarsfi eccentricities in this fashion. After the robots had completed their work, I placed a piece of the religious statuary (it was remarkably badly done, by the way) at the head of each grave and even said a short prayer, or rather a sermon. I developed the thought that I had suggested approximately a week earlier to some deer -- to wit, that in the midst of life we arc in death. I did not joke about it, however, but spoke seriously on the subject for several minutes. The robots who were my audience seemed even less excited by the intelligence than the deer had been. Which is understandable. M AY #, # -- I am annoyed. I am very, very annoyed and my great problem at the moment is that I lack an object on which to expend my annoyance. The child has been an incredible amount of trouble. I took him to the largest medical museum in the northern hemisphere and had him thoroughly examined by the best pediatric diagnostic machinery. He seems to be in excellent health, which is fortunate for both of us. And his dietarv # requirements, while not the same as mine, are fairly simple. I got a full tape on the kind of food he needs and, after a few readjustments in the commissar)' of the Museum of Modem Astronautics, I have arranged for this food to be prepared and delivered to him daily. Unfortunately, he does not seem to regard this arrangement, which took up an inordinate amount of my time, as wholly satisfactory. For one thing, he will not accept food from the regulation robot nursemaid which I have activated for him. This, I suspect, is because of his parents' odd beliefs: he probably has never encountered mechanical affection before. He will only cat when I feed him. That situation alone is intolerable, but I have found it almost impossible to leave him guarded by the robot nursemaid. Though he does little more than crawl, he manages to do this at a surprisingly fast pace and is always disappearing into dark corridors of the museum. Then an alarm is flashed to me and I have to break off my examination of the gigantic palace of the Dalai Lama, the Potala, and come scudding back from Lhasa halfway across the world to the Museum. Even then it would take us hours to find him -- and by "us" I mean every robot at my disposal -- if I were not able to resort to the anthropometer. This admirable gadget points out his hiding place very swiftly; and so, pulling him out of the firing chamber of the Space Howitzer in the Hall of Weapons, I return him to his playpen. Then, if I dare, and if it is not time for him to be fed, I mayreturn -- briefly -- to the Tibetan plateau. I am at present engaged in constructing a sort of enormous cage for him, with automatic heating and toilet facilities and devices that will screen out undesirable animals, insects and reptiles. Though this is taking up far too much of my time, it will be an excellent investment, I believe. I don't know quite what to do about the feeding problem. The only solution I can find in any of the literature on the subject that offers promise is the one about letting him go hungry if he refuses food from normal sources. After a brief experiment, however, in which he seemed cheerfully resigned to starvation, I was forced to give in. I now handle every one of his meals. The trouble is that I don't know whom to blame. Since I have been a Custodian from early manhood, I failed to see the need to reproduce. I have never been interested even slightly in children. I know very little about them and care less. I have always felt that my attitude was admirably summed up by Socrates' comments in the Symposium: "Who, upon reflecting on Homer and Hesiod and other such great poets, would not rather have their children than ordinary human ones? Who would not like to emulate them in the creation of children such as theirs, which have preserved their memory and given them everlasting glory?... Many are the temples which have been raised in their honor for the sake of such children as they have had, which were never raised in honor of anyone for the sake of his mortal children." Unfortunately, we are the only two humans alive on Earth, this child and I. We are going to our doom together; we ride the same round tumbril. And the treasures of the world which were wholly mine less than a week ago now belong at least partially to him. I wish we could discuss the matters at issue, not only to arrive at more equitable arrangements, but also for the sheer pleasure of the discussion. I have come to the conclusion that I began this journal out of unconscious terror when I discovered, after the Affirmers left, that Iwas completely alone. I find myself getting very wistful for conversation, for ideas other than my own, for opinions against which mine might be measured. Yet according to the literature on the subject, while this child might begin talking any day now, we will be immersed in catastrophe long before he learns to argue with me. I find that sad, however inevitable. How I wander! The fact is that once again I am being prevented from studying art as I would like. I am an old man and should have no responsibilities; I have all but laid down my life for the privilege of this study. It is extremely vexing. And conversation. I can just imagine the kind of conversation I might be having with an Affirmer at the moment, were one to have been stranded here with me. What dullness, what single-minded biological idiocy! What crass refusal to look at, let alone admit, the beauty his species has been seventy millennia in the making! The most he might have learned if he is a European, say, is a bit about the accepted artists of his culture. What would he know of Chinese painting, for example, or cave art? Would he be able to understand that in eaGh there were primitive periods followed by eras of lusty development, followed in turn by a consolidation of artistic gains and an increase in formalization, the whole to be rounded off by a decadent, inner-groping epoch which led almost invariably into another primitive and lusty period? That these have occurred again and again in the major cultures so that even the towering genius of a Michelangelo, a Shakespeare, a Beethoven will likely be repeated -- in somewhat different terms -- in another complete cycle? That there was a Michelangelo, Shakespeare and Beethoven in each of several different "flower periods" in ancient Egyptian art? How could an Affirmer understand such concepts when he lacks the basic information necessary to understanding? When their ships departed from the moribund solar system laden only with immediately usable artifacts? When they refused to let their offspring keep childhood treasures for fear of developing sentimentality, so that when thev came to colonize Profor either the world that has died or the puppy that has been left behind? And yet history plays such incredible jokes on Man! They who ran away from their museums, who kept nothing but a cold microfilm record of what lay in their investment houses of culture, will learn that Man's sentimentality is not to be frustrated. The bleak, efficient ships that brought them to these alien worlds will become museums of the past as they oxidize out of existence on the strange sands. Their cruelly functional lines will become the inspiration for temples and alcoholic tears. What in the world is happening to me? How I run on! After all, I merely wanted to explain why I was annoyed... M AY #, # -- I have made several decisions. I don't know if I will be able to implement the most important of them, but I will try. In order, however, to give myself what I need most at the moment -- time -- I will write much less in this journal, if I write any more at all. I will try very hard to be brief. To begin with die least important decision: I have named the child Leonardo. Why I chose to name him after a man who, for all of his talents -- in fact, because of his talents -- I regard as the most spectacular failure in the history of art, I do not know. But Leonardo was a well-rounded man, something which the Affirmers are not -- and something which I am beginning to admit I am not. By the way, the child recognizes his name. He is not yet able to pronounce it, but it is positively miraculous the way he recognizes it. And he makes a sound which is very like mine. In fact, I might say -- Let me go on. I have decided to attempt an escape from the Earth -- with Leonardo. My reasons are many and complex, and I'm not certain that I understand them all, but one thing I do know. I have felt responsibility for a life other than my own and can no longer evade it. This is not a tardy emergence into Affirmer doctrine, but in a very real sense my own ideas come to judgment. Since I believe in the reality of beauty, especially beauty made with the mind and hands of man, I can follow no other course. I am an old man and will achieve little with the rest of my life. Leonardo is an infant: he represents raw potential; he might become anything. A song beyond Shakespeare's. A thought above Newton, above Einstein. Or an evil beyond Gilles dc Retz, a horror past Hitler. Or sheer mediocrity. Or quiet, unostentatious usefulness. But the potential should be realized. I think, under my tutelage, it is less likely to be evil and there I have a potential to be realized. In any case, even if Leonardo represents a zero personally, he may carry the germ-plasm of a Buddha, of a Euripides, of a Freud. And that potential must be realized... There is a ship. Its name is Man's Hope and it was the first ship to reach the stars, almost a century ago when it had just been discovered that our sun would explode and become a nova in a little less than a hundred years. It was the ship that discovered for Man the heart-quickening fact that other stars have planets and that many of those planets are habitable to him. It was a long time ago that Captain Karma brought his starship back down on the soil of Earth with the news that escape was possible. That was long before I was born, long before humanity divided unequally into Custodian and Affirmer and long, long before either group were the unwinking fanatics they had become five years agThe ship is in the Museum of Modern Astronautics. I know it has been kept in good condition. I also know that twenty years ago, before the Aflirmers had developed the position that absolutely nothing might be taken physically from a museum, the ship was equipped with the latest Lcugio Drive. The motive was that, if it were needed on Exodus Day, it might make the trip to a star in months instead of years or centuries. The only thing that I do not know is whether I, Fiyatil, the Custodian of Custodians and art critic extraordinary, can learn to run it in the time that Leonardo and I have left. But as one of my favorite comic characters remarked about the possibility of a man chopping his own head off : a man can try... There is something else on my mind, even more exciting in a way, but this comes first. I find myself looking at the Sun a good deal these days. And very scarchingly, too. Very. N ovember n, # -- i can do it. With the help of two robots which I will modify for the purpose, I can do it. Leonardo and I could leave immediately. But I have my other project to complete. And this is my other project. I am going to use all the empty space in the ship. It was built originally for different motors and a very large crew, and I am going to use that space as a. bureau drawer. Into that bureau drawer I will stuff the keepsakes of humanity, the treasures of its childhood and adolescence -- at least as many as I will he able to get in. For weeks I have been collecting treasures from all over the world. Incredible pottery, breath-taking friezes, glorious statuary and oil paintings almost beyond counting litter the corridors of the museum. Brueghel is piled on Bosch, Bosch piled on Durer. I am going to bring a little of everything to that star toward which I point my ship, a little to show what the real things were like. I am including things like the holograph manuscripts of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, Gogol's Dead Souls, Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn . and holographs of Dickens' letters and Lincoln's speeches. There arc many others, but I cannot takt everything. Within responsible limits, I must please myself . Therefore, I am not taking anything from the Sislinc Chapel ceiling. I have instead carved out two bits of the Last Judgment instead. They arc my favorites: the soul that suddenly realizes that it is condemned, and the Hayed skin on which Michelangelo painted his own portrait. The only trouble is that fresco weighs so much! Weight, weight, weight -- it is almost all I think about now. 